   Abstract
   An audio decoder for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded
   audio information, the audio decoder comprising: an error concealment configured to
 5 provide an error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame
   following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time
   domain excitation signal; wherein the error concealment is configured to modify a time
   domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a
   lost audio frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information; wherein the
10 error concealment is configured to modify the time domain excitation signal obtained on
   the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more
   copies thereof, to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio
   information over time; wherein the error concealment is configured to gradually reduce a
   gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or
15 more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof;
   wherein the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used to gradually reduce
   a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or
   more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in
   dependence on a length of a pitch period of the time domain excitation signal , such that a
20 time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals
   having a shorter length of the pitch period when compared to signals having a larger
   length of the pitch period.
                                                                       9697804 1 (GHMatters) P102970.AU.3

                                                 1
      Audio Decoder and Method for Providing a Decoded Audio Information using an
                Error Concealment based on a Time Domain Excitation Signal
   Related Applications
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2014343904 filed
   on 27 October 2014, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
10 Embodiments according to the invention create audio decoders for providing a decoded
   audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information.
   Some embodiments according to the invention create methods for providing a decoded
   audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information.
15
   Some embodiments according to the invention create computer programs for performing
   one of said methods.
   Some embodiments according to the invention are related to a time domain concealment
20 for a transform domain codec.
   Background of the Invention
   In recent years there is an increasing demand for a digital transmission and storage of
25 audio contents. However, audio contents are often transmitted over unreliable channels,
   which brings along the risk that data units (for example, packets) comprising one or more
   audio frames (for example, in the form of an encoded representation, like, for example, an
   encoded frequency domain representation or an encoded time domain representation) are
   lost. In some situations, it would be possible to request a repetition (resending) of lost
30 audio frames (or of data units, like packets, comprising one or more lost audio frames).
   However, this would typically bring a substantial delay, and would therefore require an
   extensive buffering of audio frames. In other cases, it is hardly possible to request a
   repetition of lost audio frames.
35 In order to obtain a good, or at least acceptable, audio quality given the case that audio
   frames are lost without providing extensive buffering (which would consume a large

                                                  2
   amount of memory and which would also substantially degrade real time capabilities of
   the audio coding) it is desirable to have concepts to deal with a loss of one or more audio
   frames. In particular, it is desirable to have concepts which bring along a good audio
   quality, or at least an acceptable audio quality, even in the case that audio frames are lost.
 5
   In the past, some error concealment concepts have been developed, which can be
   employed in different audio coding concepts.
   In the following, a conventional audio coding concept will be described.
10
   In the 3gpp standard TS 26.290, a transform-coded-excitation decoding (TCX decoding)
   with error concealment is explained. In the following, some explanations will be provided,
   which are based on the section "TCX mode decoding and signal synthesis" in reference
15
   A TCX decoder according to the International Standard 3gpp TS 26.290 is shown in Figs.
   7 and 8, wherein Figs. 7 and 8 show block diagrams of the TCX decoder. However, Fig. 7
   shows those functional blocks which are relevant for the TCX decoding in a normal
   operation or a case of a partial packet loss. In contrast, Fig. 8 shows the relevant
20 processing of the TCX decoding in case of TCX-256 packet erasure concealment.
   Worded differently, Figs. 7 and 8 show a block diagram of the TCX decoder including the
   following cases:
25 Case 1 (Fig. 8): Packet-erasure concealment in TCX-256 when the TCX frame length is
   256 samples and the related packet is lost, i.e. BFITCX = (1); and
   Case 2 (Fig. 7): Normal TCX decoding, possibly with partial packet losses.
30 In the following, some explanations will be provided regarding Figs. 7 and 8.
   As mentioned, Fig. 7 shows a block diagram of a TCX decoder performing a TCX
   decoding in normal operation or in the case of partial packet loss. The TCX decoder 700
   according to Fig. 7 receives TCX specific parameters 710 and provides, on the basis
35 thereof, decoded audio information 712, 714.

                                                   3
   The audio decoder 700 comprises a demultiplexer "DEMUX TCX 720", which is
   configured to receive the TCX-specific parameters 710 and the information "BFITCX".
   The demultiplexer 720 separates the TCX-specific parameters 710 and provides an
   encoded excitation information 722, an encoded noise fill-in information 724 and an
 5 encoded global gain information 726. The audio decoder 700 comprises an excitation
   decoder 730, which is configured to receive the encoded excitation information 722, the
   encoded noise fill-in information 724 and the encoded global gain information 726, as well
   as some additional information (like, for example, a bitrate flag "bitrateflag", an
   information "BFITCX" and a TCX frame length information. The excitation decoder 730
10 provides, on the basis thereof, a time domain excitation signal 728 (also designated with
   "x"). The excitation decoder 730 comprises an excitation information processor 732, which
   demultiplexes the encoded excitation information 722 and decodes algebraic vector
   quantization    parameters.   The    excitation   information  processor 732    provides an
   intermediate excitation signal 734, which is typically in a frequency domain representation,
15 and which is designated with Y. The excitation encoder 730 also comprises a noise
   injector 736, which is configured to inject noise in unquantized subbands, to derive a noise
   filled excitation signal 738 from the intermediate excitation signal 734. The noise filled
   excitation signal 738 is typically in the frequency domain, and is designated with Z. The
   noise injector 736 receives a noise intensity information 742 from a noise fill-in level
20 decoder 740. The excitation decoder also comprises an adaptive low frequency de
   emphasis 744, which is configured to perform a low-frequency de-emphasis operation on
   the basis of the noise filled excitation signal 738, to thereby obtain a processed excitation
   signal 746, which is still in the frequency domain, and which is designated with X' . The
   excitation decoder 730 also comprises a frequency domain-to-time domain transformer
25 748, which is configured to receive the processed excitation signal 746 and to provide, on
   the basis thereof, a time domain excitation signal 750, which is associated with a certain
   time portion represented by a set of frequency domain excitation parameters (for example,
   of the processed excitation signal 746). The excitation decoder 730 also comprises a
   scaler 752, which is configured to scale the time domain excitation signal 750 to thereby
30 obtain a scaled time domain excitation signal 754. The scaler 752 receives a global gain
   information 756 from a global gain decoder 758, wherein, in return, the global gain
   decoder 758 receives the encoded global gain information 726. The excitation decoder
   730 also comprises an overlap-add synthesis 760, which receives scaled time domain
   excitation signals 754 associated with a plurality of time portions. The overlap-add
35 synthesis 760 performs an overlap-and-add operation (which may include a windowing
   operation) on the basis of the scaled time domain excitation signals 754, to obtain a

                                                   4
   temporally combined time domain excitation signal 728 for a longer period in time (longer
   than the periods in time for which the individual time domain excitation signals 750, 754
   are provided).
 5 The audio decoder 700 also comprises an LPC synthesis 770, which receives the time
   domain excitation signal 728 provided by the overlap-add synthesis 760 and one or more
   LPC coefficients defining an LPC synthesis filter function 772. The LPC synthesis 770
   may, for example, comprise a first filter 774, which may, for example, synthesis-filter the
   time domain excitation signal 728, to thereby obtain the decoded audio signal 712.
10 Optionally, the LPC synthesis 770 may also comprise a second synthesis filter 772 which
   is configured to synthesis-filter the output signal of the first filter 774 using another
   synthesis filter function, to thereby obtain the decoded audio signal 714.
   In the following, the TCX decoding will be described in the case of a TCX-256 packet
15 erasure concealment. Fig. 8 shows a block diagram of the TCX decoder in this case.
   The packet erasure concealment 800 receives a pitch information 810, which is also
   designated with "pitch_tcx", and which is obtained from a previous decoded TCX frame.
   For example, the pitch information 810 may be obtained using a dominant pitch estimator
20 747 from the processed excitation signal 746 in the excitation decoder 730 (during the
   "normal" decoding). Moreover, the packet erasure concealment 800 receives LPC
   parameters 812, which may represent an LPC synthesis filter function. The LPC
   parameters 812 may, for example, be identical to the LPC parameters 772. Accordingly,
   the packet erasure concealment 800 may be configured to provide, on the basis of the
25 pitch information 810 and the LPC parameters 812, an error concealment signal 814,
   which may be considered as an error concealment audio information. The packet erasure
   concealment 800 comprises an excitation buffer 820, which may, for example, buffer a
   previous excitation. The excitation buffer 820 may, for example, make use of the adaptive
   codebook of ACELP, and may provide an excitation signal 822. The packet erasure
30 concealment 800 may further comprise a first filter 824, a filter function of which may be
   defined as shown in Fig. 8. Thus, the first filter 824 may filter the excitation signal 822 on
   the basis of the LPC parameters 812, to obtain a filtered version 826 of the excitation
   signal 822. The packet erasure concealment also comprises an amplitude limiter 828,
   which may limit an amplitude of the filtered excitation signal 826 on the basis of target
35 information or level information rmswy,. Moreover, the packet erasure concealment 800
   may comprise a second filter 832, which may be configured to receive the amplitude

                                                   5
   limited filtered excitation signal 830 from the amplitude limiter 822 and to provide, on the
   basis thereof, the error concealment signal 814. A filter function of the second filter 832
   may, for example, be defined as shown in Fig. 8.
 5 In the following, some details regarding the decoding and error concealment will be
   described.
   In Case 1 (packet erasure concealment in TCX-256), no information is available to decode
   the 256-sample TCX frame. The TCX synthesis is found by processing the past excitation
10 delayed by T, where T=pitch tcx is a pitch lag estimated in the previously decoded TCX
   frame, by a non-linear filter roughly equivalent to 1/A(z). A non-linear filter is used
   instead of 1/A(z) to avoid clicks in the synthesis. This filter is decomposed in 3 steps:
      Step 1: filtering by
15                                          A(z /7)      1
                                             A(z)    1-a
      to map the excitation delayed by T into the TCX target domain;
      Step 2: applying a limiter (the magnitude is limited to ± rmssyn)
20
      Step 3: filtering by
                                                 1-caz-1
                                                 A(z/y)
      to find the synthesis. Note that the buffer OVLPTCX is set to zero in this case.
25
   Decoding of the algebraic VQ parameters
   In Case 2, TCX decoding involves decoding the algebraic VQ parameters describing each
   quantized block     E'k  of the scaled spectrum X', where X' is as described in Step 2 of
   Section 5.3.5.7 of 3gpp TS 26.290. Recall that X' has dimension N, where N = 288, 576
30 and 1152 for TCX-256, 512 and 1024 respectively, and that each block B' has dimension
   8. The number K of blocks B'k is thus 36, 72 and 144 for TCX-256, 512 and 1024

                                                    6
   respectively. The algebraic VQ parameters for each block B' are described in Step 5 of
   Section 5.3.5.7. For each block B', three sets of binary indices are sent by the encoder:
       a) the codebook index nu, transmitted in unary code as described in Step 5 of Section
 5        5.3.5.7;
       b) the rank I of a selected lattice point c in a so-called base codebook, which indicates
          what permutation has to be applied to a specific leader (see Step 5 of Section
          5.3.5.7) to obtain a lattice point c;
10
       c) and, if the quantized blockE', (a lattice point) was not in the base codebook, the 8
          indices of the Voronoi extension index vector k calculated in sub-step V1 of Step 5
          in Section;    from the Voronoi extension indices, an extension vector z can be
          computed as in reference [1] of 3gpp TS 26.290. The number of bits in each
15        component of index vector k is given by the extension order r, which can be
          obtained from the unary code value of index n . The scaling factor M of the Voronoi
          extension is given by M = 2'.
   Then, from the scaling factor M, the Voronoi extension vector z (a lattice point in RE) and
20 the lattice point c in the base codebook (also a lattice point in RE8 ), each quantized scaled
   block   E'k can be computed as
                                              B'1 = Mc + z
25 When there is no Voronoi extension (i.e. n < 5, M=1 and z=0), the base codebook is
   either codebook Qo, Q2 , Q3 or Q4 from reference [1] of 3gpp TS 26.290. No bits are then
   required to transmit vector k. Otherwise, when Voronoi extension is used because         E', is
   large enough, then only Q3 or Q4 from reference [1] is used as a base codebook. The
   selection of Q3 or Q4 is implicit in the codebook index value nu,, as described in Step 5 of
30 Section 5.3.5.7.
   Estimation of the dominant pitch value
   The estimation of the dominant pitch is performed so that the next frame to be decoded
35 can be properly extrapolated if it corresponds to TCX-256 and if the related packet is lost.

                                                    7
   This estimation is based on the assumption that the peak of maximal magnitude in
   spectrum of the TCX target corresponds to the dominant pitch. The search for the
   maximum M is restricted to a frequency below Fs/64 kHz
 5                                 M = maxi=1 ..N/32 ( X'2i )2+ ( X' 2 + 1 )2
   and the minimal index 1 s imax     N/32 such that ( X' 1 )2+( X' 2 +1 )2 = M is also found. Then
   the dominant pitch is estimated in number of samples as Test = N / imax (this value may not
   be integer). Recall that the dominant pitch is calculated for packet-erasure concealment in
10 TCX-256. To avoid buffering problems (the excitation buffer being limited to 256 samples
   ), if Test > 256 samples, pitchtcx is set to 256 ; otherwise, if Test         256, multiple pitch
   period in 256 samples are avoided by setting pitchtcx to
                     pitch tcx = max {   Ln Test j I   n integer > 0 and n Test   256}
15
   where    L.1 denotes the rounding to the nearest integer towards -o0.
   In the following, some further conventional concepts will be briefly discussed.
20 In ISO_lECDIS_23003-3 (reference [3]), a TCX decoding employing MDCT is explained
   in the context of the Unified Speech and Audio Codec.
   In the AAC state of the art (confer, for example, reference [4]), only an interpolation mode
   is described. According to reference [4], the AAC core decoder includes a concealment
25 function that increases the delay of the decoder by one frame.
   In the European Patent EP 1207519 B1 (reference [5]), it is described to provide a speech
   decoder and error compensation method capable of achieving further improvement for
   decoded speech in a frame in which an error is detected. According to the patent, a
30 speech coding parameter includes mode information which expresses features of each
   short segment (frame) of speech. The speech coder adaptively calculates lag parameters
   and gain parameters used for speech decoding according to the mode information.
   Moreover, the speech decoder adaptively controls the ratio of adaptive excitation gain and
   fixed gain excitation gain according to the mode information. Moreover, the concept
35 according     to the patent comprises adaptively controlling adaptive excitation gain
   parameters and fixed excitation gain parameters used for speech decoding according to

                                                8
   values of decoded gain parameters in a normal decoding unit in which no error is
   detected, immediately after a decoding unit whose coded data is detected to contain an
   error.
 5 In view of the prior art, there is a need for an additional improvement of the error
   concealment, which provides for a better hearing impression.
   Summary of the Invention
10 According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided an audio decoder for
   providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information, the
   audio decoder comprising: an error concealment configured to provide an error
   concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio
   frame encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation
15 signal; wherein the error concealment is configured to modify a time domain excitation
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in
   order to obtain the error concealment audio information; wherein the error concealment is
   configured to modify the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or
   more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby
20 reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio information over time;
   wherein the error concealment is configured to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale
   the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof; wherein the error
   concealment is configured to adjust the speed used to gradually reduce a gain applied to
25 scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in dependence on a
   length of a pitch period of the time domain excitation signal , such that a time domain
   excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a
   shorter length of the pitch period when compared to signals having a larger length of the
30 pitch period.
   According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an audio decoder
   for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information,
   the audio decoder comprising: an error concealment configured to provide an error
   concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio
35 frame encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation
   signal; wherein the error concealment is configured to modify a time domain excitation

                                                9
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in
   order to obtain the error concealment audio information; wherein the error concealment is
   configured to modify the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or
   more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby
 5 reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio information over time, or
   wherein the error concealment is configured to scale the time domain excitation signal
   obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, or one
   or more copies thereof, to thereby modify the time domain excitation signal; wherein the
   error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used to gradually reduce a gain
10 applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
   audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in
   dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a pitch prediction, such that a deterministic
   component of a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out
   faster for signals having a larger pitch change per time unit when compared to signals
15 having a smaller pitch change per time unit, and/or such that a deterministic component of
   a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals
   for which a pitch prediction fails when compared to signals for which the pitch prediction
   succeeds.
20 According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for
   providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information, the
   method comprising: providing an error concealment audio information for concealing a
   loss of an audio frame following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain
   representation using a time domain excitation signal wherein a time domain excitation
25 signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame is
   modified, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information; wherein the time
   domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a
   lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, is modified to thereby reduce a periodic
   component of the error concealment audio information over time; wherein a gain applied
30 to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio
   frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, is gradually
   reduced; wherein the speed used to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time
   domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a
   lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, is adjusted in dependence on a length
35 of a pitch period of the time domain excitation signal, such that a time domain excitation

                                                 10
   signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a shorter length of
   the pitch period when compared to signals having a larger length of the pitch period.
   According to still yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
 5 for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded audio information,
   the method comprising: providing an error concealment audio information for concealing a
   loss of an audio frame following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain
   representation using a time domain excitation signal; wherein the method comprises
   modifying a time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio
10 frames preceding a lost audio frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio
   information, wherein the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or
   more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, is
   modified to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio
   information over time, or wherein the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis
15 of one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, or one or more copies
   thereof, is scaled to thereby modify the time domain excitation signal; wherein the speed
   used to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal
   obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the
   one or more copies thereof, is adjusted in dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a
20 pitch prediction, such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal
   input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a larger pitch change per
   time unit when compared to signals having a smaller pitch change per time unit, and/or
   such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC
   synthesis is faded out faster for signals for which a pitch prediction fails when compared
25 to signals for which the pitch prediction succeeds.
   An embodiment creates an audio decoder for providing a decoded audio information on
   the basis of an encoded audio information. The audio decoder comprises an error
   concealment configured to provide an error concealment audio information for concealing
30 a loss of an audio frame (or more than one frame loss) following an audio frame encoded
   in a frequency domain representation, using a time domain excitation signal.
   This embodiment is based on the finding that an improved error concealment can be
   obtained by providing the error concealment audio information on the basis of a time
35 domain excitation signal even if the audio frame preceding a lost audio frame is encoded
   in a frequency domain representation. In other words, it has been recognized that a

                                                  11
   quality of an error concealment is typically better if the error concealment is performed on
   the basis of a time domain excitation signal, when compared to an error concealment
   performed in a frequency domain, such that it is worth switching to time domain error
   concealment, using a time domain excitation signal, even if the audio content preceding
 5 the lost audio frame is encoded in the frequency domain (i.e. in a frequency domain
   representation). That is, for example, true for a monophonic signal and mostly for speech.
   Accordingly, the present embodiment allows to obtain a good error concealment even if
   the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame is encoded in the frequency domain (i.e. in
10 a frequency domain representation).
   In a preferred embodiment, the frequency domain representation comprises an encoded
   representation of a plurality of spectral values and an encoded representation of a plurality
   of scale factors for scaling the spectral values, or the audio decoder is configured to
15 derive a plurality of scale factors for scaling the spectral values from an encoded
   representation of LPC parameters. That could be done by using FDNS (Frequency
   Domain Noise Shaping). However, it has been found that it is worth deriving a time
   domain excitation signal (which may serve as an excitation for a LPC synthesis) even if
   the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame is originally encoded in the frequency
20 domain representation comprising substantially different information (namely, an encoded
   representation of a plurality of spectral values in an encoded representation of a plurality
   of scale factors for scaling the spectral values). For example, in case of TCX we do not
   send scale factors (from an encoder to a decoder) but LPC and then in the decoder we
   transform the LPC to a scale factor representation for the MDCT bins. Worded differently,
25 in case of TCX we send the LPC coefficient and then in the decoder we transform those
   LPC coefficients to a scale factor representation for TCX in USAC or in AMR-WB+ there is
   no scale factor at all.
   In a preferred embodiment, the audio decoder comprises a frequency-domain decoder
30 core configured to apply a scale-factor-based scaling to a plurality of spectral values
   derived from the frequency-domain representation. In this case, the error concealment is
   configured to provide the error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an
   audio frame following an audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   comprising a plurality of encoded scale factors using a time domain excitation signal
35 derived from the frequency domain representation. This embodiment is based on the
   finding that the derivation of the time domain excitation signal from the above mentioned

                                               12
   frequency domain representation typically provides for a better error concealment result
   when compared to an error concealment which was performed directly in the frequency
   domain. For example, the excitation signal is created based on the synthesis of the
   previous frame, then doesn't really matter whether the previous frame is a frequency
 5 domain (MDCT, FFT...) or a time domain frame. However, particular advantages can be
   observed if the previous frame was a frequency domain . Moreover, it should be noted
   that particularly good results are achieved, for example, for monophonic signal like
   speech. As another example, the scale factors might be transmitted as LPC coefficients,
   for example using a polynomial representation which is then converted to scale factors on
10 decoder side.
   In a preferred embodiment, the audio decoder comprises a frequency domain decoder
   core configured to derive a time domain audio signal representation from the frequency
   domain representation without using a time domain excitation signal as an intermediate
15 quantity for the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation. In other
   words, it has been found that the usage of a time domain excitation signal for an error
   concealment is advantageous even if the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame is
   encoded in a "true" frequency mode which does not use any time domain excitation signal
   as an intermediate quantity (and which is consequently not based on an LPC synthesis).
20
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain the time domain
   excitation signal on the basis of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain
   representation preceding a lost audio frame. In this case, the error concealment is
   configured to provide the error concealment audio information for concealing the lost
25 audio frame using said time domain excitation signal. In other words, it has been
   recognized the time domain excitation signal, which is used for the error concealment,
   should be derived from the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   preceding the lost audio frame, because this time domain excitation signal derived from
   the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation preceding the lost audio
30 frame provides a good representation of an audio content of the audio frame preceding
   the lost audio frame, such that the error concealment can be performed with moderate
   effort and good accuracy.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to perform an LPC
35 analysis on the basis of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   preceding the lost audio frame, to obtain a set of linear-prediction-coding parameters and

                                                 13
   the time-domain excitation signal representing an audio content of the audio frame
   encoded in the frequency domain representation preceding the lost audio frame. It has
   been found that it is worth the effort to perform an LPC analysis, to derive the linear
   prediction-coding parameters and the time-domain excitation signal, even if the audio
 5 frame preceding the lost audio frame is encoded in a frequency domain representation
   (which does not contain any linear-prediction coding parameters and no representation of
   a time domain excitation signal), since a good quality error concealment audio information
   can be obtained for many input audio signals on the basis of said time domain excitation
   signal. Alternatively, the error concealment may be configured to perform an LPC analysis
10 on the basis of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   preceding the lost audio frame, to obtain the time-domain excitation signal representing
   an audio content of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   preceding the lost audio frame. Further alternatively, the audio decoder may be configured
   to obtain a set of linear-prediction-coding parameters using a linear-prediction-coding
15 parameter estimation, or the audio decoder may be configured to obtain a set of linear
   prediction-coding parameters on the basis of a set of scale factors using a transform.
   Worded differently, the LPC parameters may be obtained using the LPC parameter
   estimation. That could be done either by windowing/autocorr/levinson durbin on the basis
   of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation or by transformation
20 from the previous scale factor directly to and LPC representation.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch (or lag)
   information describing a pitch of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain
   preceding the lost audio frame, and to provide the error concealment audio information in
25 dependence on the pitch information. By taking into consideration the pitch information, it
   can be achieved that the error concealment audio information (which is typically an error
   concealment audio signal covering the temporal duration of at least one lost audio frame)
   is well adapted to the actual audio content.
30 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain the pitch
   information on the basis of the time domain excitation signal derived from the audio frame
   encoded in the frequency domain representation preceding the lost audio frame. It has
   been found that a derivation of the pitch information from the time domain excitation signal
   brings along a high accuracy. Moreover, it has been found that it is advantageous if the
35 pitch information is well adapted to the time domain excitation signal, since the pitch
   information is used for a modification of the time domain excitation signal. By deriving the

                                                14
   pitch information from the time domain excitation signal, such a close relationship can be
   achieved.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to evaluate a cross
 5 correlation of the time domain excitation signal, to determine a coarse pitch information.
   Moreover, the error concealment may be configured to refine the coarse pitch information
   using a closed loop search around a pitch determined by the coarse pitch information.
   Accordingly, a highly accurate pitch information       can be achieved with moderate
   computational effort.
10
   In a preferred embodiment, the audio decoder the error concealment may be configured
   to obtain a pitch information on the basis of a side information of the encoded audio
   information.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment may be configured to obtain a pitch
   information on the basis of a pitch information available for a previously decoded audio
   frame.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch
20 information on the basis of a pitch search performed on a time domain signal or on a
   residual signal.
   Worded differently, the pitch can be transmitted as side info or could also come from the
   previous frame if there is LTP for example. The pitch information could also be transmit in
25 the bitstream if available at the encoder. We can do optionally the pitch search on the time
   domain signal directly or on the residual, that give usually better results on the residual
   (time domain excitation signal).
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to copy a pitch cycle of
30 the time domain excitation signal derived from the audio frame encoded in the frequency
   domain representation preceding the lost audio frame one time or multiple times, in order
   to obtain an excitation signal for a synthesis of the error concealment audio signal. By
   copying the time domain excitation signal one time or multiple times, it can be achieved
   that the deterministic (i.e. substantially periodic) component of the error concealment
35 audio information is obtained with good accuracy and is a good continuation of the

                                                 15
   deterministic (e.g. substantially periodic) component of the audio content of the audio
   frame preceding the lost audio frame.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to low-pass filter the pitch
 5 cycle of the time domain excitation signal derived from             the frequency domain
   representation of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation
   preceding the lost audio frame using a sampling-rate dependent filter, a bandwidth of
   which is dependent on a sampling rate of the audio frame encoded in a frequency domain
   representation. Accordingly, the time domain excitation signal can be adapted to an
10 available audio bandwidth, which results in a good hearing impression of the error
   concealment audio information. For example, it is preferred to low pass only on the first
   lost frame, and preferably, we also low pass only if the signal is not 100% stable.
   However, it should be noted that the low-pass-filtering is optional, and may be performed
   only on the first pitch cycle. For example, the filter may be sampling-rate dependent, such
15 that the cut-off frequency is independent of the bandwidth.
   In a preferred embodiment, error concealment is configured to predict a pitch at an end of
   a lost frame to adapt the time domain excitation signal, or one or more copies thereof, to
   the predicted pitch. Accordingly, expected pitch changes during the lost audio frame can
20 be considered. Consequently, artifacts at a transition between the error concealment
   audio information and an audio information of a properly decoded frame following one or
   more lost audio frames are avoided (or at least reduced, since that is only a predicted
   pitch not the real one). For example, the adaptation is going from the last good pitch to
   the predicted one. That is done by the pulse resynchronization [7]
25
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to combine an
   extrapolated time domain excitation signal and a noise signal, in order to obtain an input
   signal for an LPC synthesis. In this case, the error concealment is configured to perform
   the LPC synthesis, wherein the LPC synthesis is configured to filter the input signal of the
30 LPC synthesis in dependence on linear-prediction-coding parameters, in order to obtain
   the error concealment audio information. Accordingly, both a deterministic (for example,
   approximately periodic) component of the audio content and a noise-like component of the
   audio content can be considered. Accordingly, it is achieved that the error concealment
   audio information comprises a "natural" hearing impression.
35

                                                  16
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to compute a gain of the
   extrapolated time domain excitation signal, which is used to obtain the input signal for the
   LPC synthesis, using a correlation in the time domain which is performed on the basis of a
   time domain representation of the audio frame encoded in the frequency domain
 5 preceding the lost audio frame, wherein a correlation lag is set in dependence on a pitch
   information obtained on the basis of the time-domain excitation signal. In other words, an
   intensity of a periodic component is determined within the audio frame preceding the lost
   audio frame, and this determined intensity of the periodic component is used to obtain the
   error concealment audio information.        However, it has been found that the above
10 mentioned computation of the intensity of the period component provides particularly good
   results, since the actual time domain audio signal of the audio frame preceding the lost
   audio frame is considered. Alternatively, a correlation in the excitation domain or directly
   in the time domain may be used to obtain the pitch information. However, there are also
   different possibilities, depending on which embodiment is used. In an embodiment, the
15 pitch information could be only the pitch obtained from the Itp of last frame or the pitch
   that is transmitted as side info or the one calculated.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to high-pass filter the
   noise signal which is combined with the extrapolated time domain excitation signal. It has
20 been found that high pass filtering the noise signal (which is typically input into the LPC
   synthesis) results in a natural hearing         impression. For example, the high pass
   characteristic may be changing with the amount of frame lost, after a certain amount of
   frame loss there may be no high pass anymore. The high pass characteristic may also be
   dependent of the sampling rate the decoder is running. For example, the high pass is
25 sampling rate dependent, and the filter characteristic may change over time (over
   consecutive frame loss). The high pass characteristic may also optionally be changed
   over consecutive frame loss such that after a certain amount of frame loss there is no
   filtering anymore to only get the full band shaped noise to get a good comfort noise closed
   to the background noise.
30
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to selectively change the
   spectral shape of the noise signal (562) using the pre-emphasis filter wherein the noise
   signal is combined with the extrapolated time domain excitation signal if the audio frame
   encoded in a frequency domain representation preceding the lost audio frame is a voiced
35 audio frame or comprises an onset. It has been found that the hearing impression of the
   error concealment audio information can be improved by such a concept. For example, in

                                                  17
   some case it is better to decrease the gains and shape and in some place it is better to
   increase it.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to compute a gain of the
 5 noise signal in dependence on a correlation in the time domain, which is performed on the
   basis of a time domain representation of the audio frame encoded in the frequency
   domain representation preceding the lost audio frame. It has been found that such
   determination of the gain of the noise signal provides particularly accurate results, since
   the actual time domain audio signal associated with the audio frame preceding the lost
10 audio frame can be considered. Using this concept, it is possible to be able to get an
   energy of the concealed frame close to the energy of the previous good frame. For
   example, the gain for the noise signal may be generated by measuring the energy of the
   result: excitation of input signal - generated pitch based excitation.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to modify a time domain
   excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
   frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information. It has been found that
   the modification of the time domain excitation signal allows to adapt the time domain
   excitation signal to a desired temporal evolution. For example, the modification of the time
20 domain excitation signal allows to "fade out" the deterministic (for example, substantially
   periodic) component of the audio content in the error concealment audio information.
   Moreover, the modification of the time domain excitation signal also allows to adapt the
   time domain excitation signal to an (estimated or expected) pitch variation. This allows to
   adjust the characteristics of the error concealment audio information over time.
25
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to use one or more
   modified copies of the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
   audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in order to obtain the error concealment
   information. Modified copies of the time domain excitation signal can be obtained with a
30 moderate effort, and the modification may be performed using a simple algorithm. Thus,
   desired characteristics of the error concealment audio information can be achieved with
   moderate effort.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to modify the time domain
35 excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
   frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error

                                                 18
   concealment audio information over time. Accordingly, it can be considered that the
   correlation between the audio content of the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame
   and the audio content of the one or more lost audio frames decreases over time. Also, it
   can be avoided that an unnatural hearing impression is caused by a long preservation of a
 5 periodic component of the error concealment audio information.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to scale the time domain
   excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding the lost
   audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby modify the time domain excitation
10 signal. It has been found that the scaling operation can be performed with little effort,
   wherein the scaled time domain excitation signal typically provides a good error
   concealment audio information.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to gradually reduce a gain
15 applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
   audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof.
   Accordingly, a fade out of the periodic component can be achieved within the error
   concealment audio information.
20 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust a speed used to
   gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the
   basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more
   copies thereof, in dependence on one or more parameters of one or more audio frames
   preceding the lost audio frame, and/or in dependence on a number of consecutive lost
25 audio frames. Accordingly, it is possible to adjust the speed at which the deterministic (for
   example, at least approximately periodic) component is faded out in the error concealment
   audio information. The speed of the fade out can be adapted to specific characteristics of
   the audio content, which can typically be seen from one or more parameters of the one or
   more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame. Alternatively, or in addition, the
30 number of consecutive lost audio frames can be considered when determining the speed
   used to fade out the deterministic (for example, at least approximately periodic)
   component of the error concealment audio information, which helps to adapt the error
   concealment to the specific situation. For example, the gain of the tonal part and the gain
   of the noisy part may be faded out separately. The gain for the tonal part may converge to
35 zero after a certain amount of frame loss whereas the gain of noise may converge to the
   gain determined to reach a certain comfort noise.

                                                  19
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used
   to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on
   the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more
   copies thereof, in dependence on a length of a pitch period of the time domain excitation
 5 signal, such that a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out
   faster for signals having a shorter length of the pitch period when compared to signals
   having a larger length of the pitch period. Accordingly, it can be avoided that signals
   having a shorter length of the pitch period are repeated too often with high intensity,
   because this would typically result in an unnatural hearing impression. Thus, an overall
10 quality of the error concealment audio information can be improved.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used
   to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on
   the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more
15 copies thereof, in dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a pitch prediction, such
   that a deterministic component of the time domain excitation signal input into an LPC
   synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a larger pitch change per time unit when
   compared to signals having a smaller pitch change per time unit, and/or such that a
   deterministic component of the time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis
20 is faded out faster for signals for which a pitch prediction fails when compared to signals
   for which the pitch prediction succeeds. Accordingly, the fade out can be made faster for
   signals in which there is a large uncertainty of the pitch when compared to signals for
   which there is a smaller uncertainty of the pitch. However, by fading out a deterministic
   component faster for signals which comprise a comparatively large uncertainty of the
25 pitch, audible artifacts can be avoided or at least reduced substantially.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to time-scale the time
   domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a
   lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in dependence on a prediction of a
30 pitch for the time of the one or more lost audio frames. Accordingly, the time domain
   excitation signal can be adapted to a varying pitch, such that the error concealment audio
   information comprises a more natural hearing impression.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to provide the error
35 concealment audio information for a time which is longer than a temporal duration of the
   one or more lost audio frames. Accordingly, it is possible to perform an overlap-and-add

                                                  20
   operation on the basis of the error concealment audio information, which helps to reduce
   blocking artifacts.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to perform an overlap
 5 and-add of the error concealment audio information and of a time domain representation
   of one or more properly received audio frames following the one or more lost audio
   frames. Thus, it is possible to avoid (or at least reduce) blocking artifacts.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to derive the error
10 concealment audio information on the basis of at least three partially overlapping frames
   or windows preceding a lost audio frame or a lost window. Accordingly, the error
   concealment audio information can be obtained with good accuracy even for coding
   modes in which more than two frames (or windows) are overlapped (wherein such overlap
   may help to reduce a delay).
15
   Another embodiment creates a method for providing a decoded audio information on the
   basis of an encoded audio information. The method comprises providing an error
   concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio
   frame encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation
20 signal. This method is based on the same considerations as the above mentioned audio
   decoder.
   Yet another embodiment creates a computer program for performing said method when
   the computer program runs on a computer.
25
   Another embodiment creates an audio decoder for providing a decoded audio information
   on the basis of an encoded audio information. The audio decoder comprises an error
   concealment configured to provide an error concealment audio information for concealing
   a loss of an audio frame. The error concealment is configured to modify a time domain
30 excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
   frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information.
   This embodiment is based on the idea that an error concealment with a good audio quality
   can be obtained on the basis of a time domain excitation signal, wherein a modification of
35 the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame allows for an adaptation of the error concealment audio

                                                 21
   information to expected (or predicted) changes of the audio content during the lost frame.
   Accordingly, artifacts and, in particular, an unnatural hearing impression, which would be
   caused by an unchanged usage of the time domain excitation signal, can be avoided.
   Consequently, an improved provision of an error concealment audio information is
 5 achieved, such that lost audio frames can be concealed with improved results.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to use one or more
   modified copies of the time domain excitation signal obtained for one or more audio
   frames preceding a lost audio frame, in order to obtain the error concealment information.
10 By using one or more modified copies of the time domain excitation signal obtained for
   one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, a good quality of the error
   concealment audio information can be achieved with little computational effort.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to modify the time domain
15 excitation signal obtained for one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or
   one or more copies thereof, to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error
   concealment audio information over time. By reducing the periodic component of the error
   concealment audio information        over time, an unnaturally long preservation of a
   deterministic (for example, approximately periodic) sound can be avoided, which helps to
20 make the error concealment audio information sound natural.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to scale the time domain
   excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding the lost
   audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby modify the time domain excitation
25 signal. The scaling of the time domain excitation signal constitutes a particularly efficient
   manner to vary the error concealment audio information over time.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to gradually reduce a gain
   applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained for one or more audio frames
30 preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof. It has been found that
   gradually reducing the gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained for
   one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies
   thereof, allows to obtain a time domain excitation signal for the provision of the error
   concealment audio information, such that the deterministic components (for example, at
35 least approximately periodic components) are faded out. For example, there may be not
   only one gain. For example, we may have one gain for the tonal part (also referred to as

                                                  22
   approximately periodic part), and one gain for the noise part. Both excitations (or
   excitation components) may be attenuated separately with different speed factor and then
   the two resulting excitations (or excitation components) may be combined before being
   fed to the LPC for synthesis. In the case that we don't have any background noise
 5 estimate, the fade out factor for the noise and for the tonal part may be similar, and then
   we can have only one fade out apply on the results of the two excitations multiply with
   their own gain and combined together.
   Thus, it can be avoided that the error concealment audio information comprises a
10 temporally extended deterministic (for example, at least approximately periodic) audio
   component, which would typically provide an unnatural hearing impression.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust a speed used to
   gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained for one
15 or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in
   dependence on one or more parameters of one or more audio frames preceding the lost
   audio frame, and/or in dependence on a number of consecutive lost audio frames. Thus,
   the speed of the fade out of the deterministic (for example, at least approximately
   periodic) component in the error concealment audio information can be adapted to the
20 specific situation with moderate computational effort. Since the time domain excitation
   signal used for the provision of the error concealment audio information is typically a
   scaled version (scaled using the gain mentioned above) of the time domain excitation
   signal obtained for the one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, a
   variation of said gain (used to derive the time domain excitation signal for the provision of
25 the error concealment audio information) constitutes a simple yet effective method to
   adapt the error concealment audio information to the specific needs. However, the speed
   of the fade out is also controllable with very little effort.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used
30 to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on
   the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more
   copies thereof, in dependence on a length of a pitch period of the time domain excitation
   signal, such that a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out
   faster for signals having a shorter length of the pitch period when compared to signals
35 having a larger length of the pitch period. Accordingly, the fade out is performed faster for

                                                  23
   signals having a shorter length of the pitch period, which avoids that a pitch period is
   copied too many times (which would typically result in an unnatural hearing impression).
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used
 5 to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained for
   one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies
   thereof, in dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a pitch prediction, such that a
   deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is
   faded out faster for signals having a larger pitch change per time unit when compared to
10 signals having a smaller pitch change per time unit, and/or such that a deterministic
   component of a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out
   faster for signals for which a pitch prediction fails when compared to signals for which the
   pitch   prediction   succeeds.    Accordingly,   a   deterministic (for example,    at  least
   approximately periodic) component is faded out faster for signals for which there is a
15 larger uncertainty of the pitch (wherein a larger pitch change per time unit, or even a
   failure of the pitch prediction, indicates a comparatively large uncertainty of the pitch).
   Thus, artifacts, which would arise from a provision of a highly deterministic error
   concealment audio information in a situation in which the actual pitch is uncertain, can be
   avoided.
20
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to time-scale the time
   domain excitation signal obtained for (or on the basis of) one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, in dependence on a
   prediction of a pitch for the time of the one or more lost audio frames. Accordingly, the
25 time domain excitation signal, which is used for the provision of the error concealment
   audio information, is modified (when compared to the time domain excitation signal
   obtained for (or on the basis of) one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame,
   such that the pitch of the time domain excitation signal follows the requirements of a time
   period of the lost audio frame. Consequently, a hearing impression, which can be
30 achieved by the error concealment audio information, can be improved.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a time domain
   excitation signal, which has been used to decode one or more audio frames preceding the
   lost audio frame, and to modify said time domain excitation signal, which has been used
35 to decode one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, to obtain a modified
   time domain excitation signal. In this case, the time domain concealment is configured to

                                                  24
   provide the error concealment audio information on the basis of the modified time domain
   audio signal. Accordingly, it is possible to reuse a time domain excitation signal, which has
   already been used to decode one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame.
   Thus, a computational effort can be kept very small, if the time domain excitation signal
 5 has already been acquired for the decoding of one or more audio frames preceding the
   lost audio frame.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch
   information, which has been used to decode one or more audio frames preceding the lost
10 audio frame. In this case, the error concealment is also configured to provide the error
   concealment audio information in dependence on said pitch information. Accordingly, the
   previously used pitch information can be reused, which avoids a computational effort for a
   new computation of the pitch information. Thus, the error concealment is particularly
   computationally efficient. For example, in the case of ACELP we have 4 pitch lag and
15 gains per frame. We may use the last two frames to be able to predict the pitch at the end
   of the frame we have to conceal.
   Then compare to the previous described frequency domain codec where only one or two
   pitch per frame are derived (we could have more than two but that would add much
20 complexity for not much gain in quality). in the case of a switch codec that goes for
   example, ACELP - FD - loss then, we have much better pitch precision since the pitch
   are transmitted in the bitstream and are based on the original input signal (not on the
   decoded one as done in the decoder). In the case of high bitrate, for example, we may
   also send one pitch lag and gain information, or LTP information, per frequency domain
25 coded frame.
   In a preferred embodiment, the audio decoder the error concealment may be configured
   to obtain a pitch information on the basis of a side information of the encoded audio
   information.
30
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment may be configured to obtain a pitch
   information on the basis of a pitch information available for a previously decoded audio
   frame.

                                                   25
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch
   information on the basis of a pitch search performed on a time domain signal or on a
   residual signal.
 5 Worded differently, the pitch can be transmitted as side info or could also come from the
   previous frame if there is LTP for example. The pitch information could also be transmit in
   the bitstream if available at the encoder. We can do optionally the pitch search on the time
   domain signal directly or on the residual, that give usually better results on the residual
   (time domain excitation signal).
10
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a set of linear
   prediction coefficients, which have been used to decode one or more audio frames
   preceding the lost audio frame. In this case, the error concealment is configured to
   provide the error concealment audio information in dependence on said set of linear
15 prediction coefficients. Thus, the efficiency of the error concealment is increased by
   reusing previously generated (or previously decoded) information, like for example the
   previously   used     set  of   linear prediction    coefficients. Thus,    unnecessarily high
   computational complexity is avoided.
20 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to extrapolate a new set
   of linear prediction coefficients on the basis of the set of linear prediction coefficients,
   which have been used to decode one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio
   frame. In this case, the error concealment is configured to use the new set of linear
   prediction coefficients to provide the error concealment information. By deriving the new
25 set of linear prediction coefficients, used to provide the error concealment audio
   information, from a set of previously used linear prediction coefficients using an
   extrapolation, a full recalculation of the linear prediction coefficients can be avoided, which
   helps to keep the computational effort reasonably small. Moreover, by performing an
   extrapolation on the basis of the previously used set of linear prediction coefficients, it can
30 be ensured that the new set of linear prediction coefficients is at least similar to the
   previously used set of linear prediction coefficients, which helps to avoid discontinuities
   when providing the error concealment information. For example, after a certain amount of
   frame loss we tend to a estimate background noise LPC shape. The speed of this
   convergence, may, for example, depend on the signal characteristic.
35

                                                 26
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain an information
   about an intensity of a deterministic signal component in one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame. In this case, the error concealment is configured to compare
   the information about an intensity of a deterministic signal component in one or more
 5 audio frames preceding a lost audio frame with a threshold value, to decide whether to
   input a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal into a LPC synthesis
   (linear-prediction-coefficient based synthesis), or whether to input only a noise component
   of a time domain excitation signal into the LPC synthesis. Accordingly, it is possible to
   omit the provision of a deterministic (for example, at least approximately periodic)
10 component of the error concealment audio information in the case that there is only a
   small deterministic signal contribution within the one or more frames preceding the lost
   audio frame. It has been found that this helps to obtain a good hearing impression.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch
15 information describing a pitch of the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame, and to
   provide the error concealment audio information in dependence on the pitch information.
   Accordingly, it is possible to adapt the pitch of the error concealment information to the
   pitch of the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame. Accordingly, discontinuities are
   avoided and a natural hearing impression can be achieved.
20
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain the pitch
   information on the basis of the time domain excitation signal associated with the audio
   frame preceding the lost audio frame. It has been found that the pitch information obtained
   on the basis of the time domain excitation signal is particularly reliable, and is also very
25 well adapted to the processing of the time domain excitation signal.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to evaluate a cross
   correlation of the time domain excitation signal (or, alternatively, of a time domain audio
   signal), to determine a coarse pitch information, and to refine the coarse pitch information
30 using a closed loop search around a pitch determined (or described) by the coarse pitch
   information. It has been found that this concept allows to obtain a very precise pitch
   information with moderate computational effort. In other words, in some codec we do the
   pitch search directly on the time domain signal whereas in some other we do the pitch
   search on the time domain excitation signal.
35

                                                27
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain the pitch
   information for the provision of the error concealment audio information on the basis of a
   previously computed pitch information, which was used for a decoding of one or more
   audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, and on the basis of an evaluation of a cross
 5 correlation of the time domain excitation signal, which is modified in order to obtain a
   modified time domain excitation signal for the provision of the error concealment audio
   information. It has been found that considering both the previously computed pitch
   information and the pitch information obtained on the basis of the time domain excitation
   signal (using a cross correlation) improves the reliability of the pitch information and
10 consequently helps to avoid artifacts and/or discontinuities.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to select a peak of the
   cross correlation, out of a plurality of peaks of the cross correlation, as a peak
   representing a pitch in dependence on the previously computed pitch information, such
15 that a peak is chosen which represents a pitch that is closest to the pitch represented by
   the previously computed pitch information. Accordingly, possible ambiguities of the cross
   correlation, which may, for example, result in multiple peaks, can be overcome. The
   previously computed pitch information is thereby used to select the "proper" peak of the
   cross correlation, which helps to substantially increase the reliability. On the other hand,
20 the actual time domain excitation signal is considered primarily for the pitch determination,
   which provides a good accuracy (which is substantially better than an accuracy obtainable
   on the basis of only the previously computed pitch information).
   In a preferred embodiment, the audio decoder the error concealment may be configured
25 to obtain a pitch information on the basis of a side information of the encoded audio
   information.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment may be configured to obtain a pitch
   information on the basis of a pitch information available for a previously decoded audio
30 frame.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to obtain a pitch
   information on the basis of a pitch search performed on a time domain signal or on a
   residual signal.
35

                                                  28
   Worded differently, the pitch can be transmitted as side info or could also come from the
   previous frame if there is LTP for example. The pitch information could also be transmit in
   the bitstream if available at the encoder. We can do optionally the pitch search on the time
   domain signal directly or on the residual, that give usually better results on the residual
 5 (time domain excitation signal).
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to copy a pitch cycle of
   the time domain excitation signal associated with the audio frame preceding the lost audio
   frame one time or multiple times, in order to obtain an excitation signal (or at least a
10 deterministic component thereof) for a synthesis of the error concealment audio
   information. By copying the pitch cycle of the time domain excitation signal associated
   with the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame one time or multiple times, and by
   modifying said one or more copies using a comparatively simple modification algorithm,
   the excitation signal (or at least the deterministic component thereof) for the synthesis of
15 the error concealment audio information can be obtained with little computational effort.
   However, reusing the time domain excitation signal associated with the audio frame
   preceding the lost audio frame (by copying said time domain excitation signal) avoids
   audible discontinuities.
20 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to low-pass filter the pitch
   cycle of the time domain excitation signal associated with the audio frame preceding the
   lost audio frame using a sampling-rate dependent filter, a bandwidth of which is
   dependent on a sampling rate of the audio frame encoded in a frequency domain
   representation. Accordingly, the time domain excitation signal is adapted to a signal
25 bandwidth of the audio decoder, which results in a good reproduction of the audio content.
   For details and optional improvements, reference is made, for example, to the above
   explanations.
   For example, it is preferred to low pass only on the first lost frame, and preferably, we also
30 low pass only if the signal is not unoiced. However, it should be noted that the low-pass
   filtering is optional. Furthermore the filter may be sampling-rate dependent, such that the
   cut-off frequency is independent of the bandwidth.
   In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to predict a pitch at an
35 end of a lost frame. In this case, error concealment is configured to adapt the time domain
   excitation signal, or one or more copies thereof, to the predicted pitch. By modifying the

                                                  29
   time domain excitation signal, such that the time domain excitation signal which is actually
   used for the provision of the error concealment audio information is modified with respect
   to the time domain excitation signal associated with an audio frame preceding the lost
   audio frame, expected (or predicted) pitch changes during the lost audio frame can be
 5 considered, such that the error concealment audio information is well-adapted to the
   actual evolution (or at least to the expected or predicted evolution) of the audio content.
   For example, the adaptation is going from the last good pitch to the predicted one. That is
   done by the pulse resynchronization[7]
10 In a preferred embodiment, the error concealment is configured to combine an
   extrapolated time domain excitation signal and a noise signal, in order to obtain an input
   signal for an LPC synthesis. In this case, the error concealment is configured to perform
   the LPC synthesis, wherein the LPC synthesis is configured to filter the input signal of the
   LPC synthesis in dependence on linear-prediction-coding parameters, in order to obtain
15 the error concealment audio information. By combining the extrapolated time domain
   excitation signal (which is typically a modified version of the time domain excitation signal
   derived for one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame) and a noise signal,
   both   deterministic  (for example,     approximately periodic) components        and   noise
   components of the audio content can be considered in the error concealment. Thus, it can
20 be achieved that the error concealment audio information provides a hearing impression
   which is similar to the hearing impression provided by the frames preceding the lost
   frame.
   Also, by combining a time domain excitation signal and a noise signal, in order to obtain
25 the input signal for the LPC synthesis (which may be considered as a combined time
   domain excitation signal), it is possible to vary a percentage of the deterministic
   component of the input audio signal for the LPC synthesis while maintaining an energy (of
   the input signal of the LPC synthesis, or even of the output signal of the LPC synthesis).
   Consequently, it is possible to vary the characteristics of the error concealment audio
30 information (for example, tonality characteristics) without substantially changing an energy
   or loudness of the error concealment audio signal, such that it is possible to modify the
   time domain excitation signal without causing unacceptable audible distortions.
   An embodiment creates a method for providing a decoded audio information on the basis
35 of an encoded audio information. The method comprises providing an error concealment
   audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame. Providing the error concealment

                                               30
   audio information comprises modifying a time domain excitation signal obtained on the
   basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in order to obtain the
   error concealment audio information.
 5 This method is based on the same considerations the above described audio decoder.
   A further embodiment creates a computer program for performing said method when the
   computer program runs on a computer.
10 Brief Description of the Figures
   Embodiments of the present invention will subsequently be described taking reference to
   the enclosed figures, in which:
15 Fig. 1         shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder, according to an
                  embodiment of the invention;
   Fig. 2         shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder, according to
                  another embodiment of the present invention;
20
   Fig. 3         shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder, according to
                  another embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 4         shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder, according to
25                another embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 5         shows a block schematic diagram of a time domain concealment for a
                  transform coder;
30 Fig. 6         shows a block schematic diagram of a time domain concealment for a
                  switch codec;
   Fig. 7         shows a block diagram of a TCX decoder performing a TCX decoding in
                  normal operation or in case of partial packet loss;
35

                                                31
   Fig. 8         shows a block schematic diagram of a TCX decoder performing a TCX
                  decoding in case of TCX-256 packet erasure concealment;
   Fig. 9         shows a flowchart of a method for providing a decoded audio information
 5                on the basis of an encoded audio information, according to an embodiment
                  of the present invention; and
   Fig. 10        shows a flowchart of a method for providing a decoded audio information
                  on the basis of an encoded audio information, according to another
10                embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 11        shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder, according to
                  another embodiment of the present invention.
15
   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
   1. Audio Decoder According to Fig. 1
20 Fig. 1 shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder 100, according to an
   embodiment of the present invention. The audio decoder 100 receives an encoded audio
   information 110, which may, for example, comprise an audio frame encoded in a
   frequency-domain representation. The encoded audio information may, for example, be
   received via an unreliable channel, such that a frame loss occurs from time to time. The
25 audio decoder 100 further provides, on the basis of the encoded audio information 110,
   the decoded audio information 112.
   The audio decoder 100 may comprise a decoding/processing 120, which provides the
   decoded audio information on the basis of the encoded audio information in the absence
30 of a frame loss.
   The audio decoder 100 further comprises an error concealment 130, which provides an
   error concealment audio information. The error concealment 130 is configured to provide
   the error concealment audio information 132 for concealing a loss of an audio frame
35 following an audio frame encoded in the frequency domain representation, using a time
   domain excitation signal.

                                                   32
   In other words, the decoding/processing 120 may provide a decoded audio information
   122 for audio frames which           are encoded in the form of a frequency domain
   representation, i.e. in the form of an encoded representation, encoded values of which
 5 describe     intensities   in   different    frequency     bins.   Worded        differently, the
   decoding/processing 120 may, for example, comprise a frequency domain audio decoder,
   which derives a set of spectral values from the encoded audio information 110 and
   performs a frequency-domain-to-time-domain transform to thereby derive a time domain
   representation which constitutes the decoded audio information 122 or which forms the
10 basis for the provision of the decoded audio information 122 in case there is additional
   post processing.
   However, the error concealment 130 does not perform the error concealment in the
   frequency domain but rather uses a time domain excitation signal, which may, for
15 example, serve to excite a synthesis filter, like for example a LPC synthesis filter, which
   provides a time domain representation of an audio signal (for example, the error
   concealment audio information) on the basis of the time domain excitation signal and also
   on the basis of LPC filter coefficients (linear-prediction-coding filter coefficients).
20 Accordingly, the error concealment 130 provides the error concealment audio information
   132, which may, for example, be a time domain audio signal, for lost audio frames,
   wherein the time domain excitation signal used by the error concealment 130 may be
   based on, or derived from, one or more previous, properly received audio frames
   (preceding the lost audio frame), which are encoded in the form of a frequency domain
25 representation. To conclude, the audio decoder 100 may perform an error concealment
   (i.e. provide an error concealment audio information 132), which reduces a degradation of
   an audio quality due to the loss of an audio frame on the basis of an encoded audio
   information, in which at least some audio frames are encoded in a frequency domain
   representation. It has been found that performing the error concealment using a time
30 domain excitation signal even if a frame following a properly received audio frame
   encoded in the frequency domain representation is lost, brings along an improved audio
   quality when compared to an error concealment which is performed in the frequency
   domain (for example, using a frequency domain representation of the audio frame
   encoded in the frequency domain representation preceding the lost audio frame). This is
35 due to the fact that a smooth transition between the decoded audio information associated
   with the properly received audio frame preceding the lost audio frame and the error

                                                 33
   concealment audio information associated with the lost audio frame can be achieved
   using a time domain excitation signal, since the signal synthesis, which is typically
   performed on the basis of the time domain excitation signal, helps to avoid discontinuities.
   Thus, a good (or at least acceptable) hearing impression can be achieved using the audio
 5 decoder 100, even if an audio frame is lost which follows a properly received audio frame
   encoded in the frequency domain representation. For example, the time domain approach
   brings improvement on monophonic signal, like speech, because it is closer to what is
   done in case of speech codec concealment. The usage of LPC helps to avoid
   discontinuities and give a better shaping of the frames.
10
   Moreover, it should be noted that the audio decoder 100 can be supplemented by any of
   the features and functionalities described in the following, either individually or taken in
   combination.
15 2. Audio Decoder According to Fig. 2
   Fig. 2 shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder 200 according to an
   embodiment of the present invention. The audio decoder 200 is configured to receive an
   encoded audio information 210 and to provide, on the basis thereof, a decoded audio
20 information 220. The encoded audio information 210 may, for example, take the form of a
   sequence of audio frames encoded in a time domain representation, encoded in a
   frequency domain representation, or encoded in both a time domain representation and a
   frequency domain representation. Worded differently, all of the frames of the encoded
   audio information 210 may be encoded in a frequency domain representation, or all of the
25 frames of the encoded audio information 210 may be encoded in a time domain
   representation (for example, in the form of an encoded time domain excitation signal and
   encoded signal synthesis parameters, like, for example, LPC parameters). Alternatively,
   some frames of the encoded audio information may be encoded in a frequency domain
   representation, and some other frames of the encoded audio information may be encoded
30 in a time domain representation, for example, if the audio decoder 200 is a switching
   audio decoder which can switch between different decoding modes. The decoded audio
   information 220 may, for example, be a time domain representation of one or more audio
   channels.
35 The audio decoder 200 may typically comprise a decoding/processing 220, which may, for
   example, provide a decoded audio information 232 for audio frames which are properly

                                                34
   received. In other words, the decoding/processing 230 may perform a frequency domain
   decoding (for example, an AAC-type decoding, or the like) on the basis of one or more
   encoded audio frames encoded in a frequency domain representation. Alternatively, or in
   addition, the decoding/processing 230 may be configured to perform a time domain
 5 decoding (or linear-prediction-domain decoding) on the basis of one or more encoded
   audio frames encoded in a time domain representation (or, in other words, in a linear
   prediction-domain representation), like, for example, a TCX-excited linear-prediction
   decoding (TCX=transform-coded excitation) or an ACELP decoding (algebraic-codebook
   excited-linear-prediction-decoding). Optionally, the decoding/processing 230 may be
10 configured to switch between different decoding modes.
   The audio decoder 200 further comprises an error concealment 240, which is configured
   to provide an error concealment audio information 242 for one or more lost audio frames.
   The error concealment 240 is configured to provide the error concealment audio
15 information 242 for concealing a loss of an audio frame (or even a loss of multiple audio
   frames). The error concealment 240 is configured to modify a time domain excitation
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in
   order to obtain the error concealment audio information 242. Worded differently, the error
   concealment 240 may obtain (or derive) a time domain excitation signal for (or on the
20 basis of) one or more encoded audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, and may
   modify said time domain excitation signal, which is obtained for (or on the basis of) one or
   more properly received audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, to thereby obtain (by
   the modification) a time domain excitation signal which is used for providing the error
   concealment audio information 242. In other words, the modified time domain excitation
25 signal may be used as an input (or as a component of an input) for a synthesis (for
   example, LPC synthesis) of the error concealment audio information associated with the
   lost audio frame (or even with multiple lost audio frames). By providing the error
   concealment audio information 242 on the basis of the time domain excitation signal
   obtained on the basis of one or more properly received audio frames preceding the lost
30 audio frame, audible discontinuities can be avoided. On the other hand, by modifying the
   time domain excitation signal derived for (or from) one or more audio frames preceding
   the lost audio frame, and by providing the error concealment audio information on the
   basis of the modified time domain excitation signal, it is possible to consider varying
   characteristics of the audio content (for example, a pitch change), and it is also possible to
35 avoid an unnatural hearing impression (for example, by "fading out" a deterministic (for
   example, at least approximately periodic) signal component). Thus, it can be achieved

                                                 35
   that the error concealment audio information 242 comprises some similarity with the
   decoded audio information 232 obtained on the basis of properly decoded audio frames
   preceding the lost audio frame, and it can still be achieved that the error concealment
   audio information 242 comprises a somewhat different audio content when compared to
 5 the decoded audio information 232 associated with the audio frame preceding the lost
   audio frame by somewhat modifying the time domain excitation signal. The modification of
   the time domain excitation signal used for the provision of the error concealment audio
   information (associated with the lost audio frame) may, for example, comprise an
   amplitude scaling or a time scaling. However, other types of modification (or even a
10 combination of an amplitude scaling and a time scaling) are possible, wherein preferably a
   certain degree of relationship between the time domain excitation signal obtained (as an
   input information) by the error concealment and the modified time domain excitation signal
   should remain.
15 To conclude, the audio decoder 200 allows to provide the error concealment audio
   information 242, such that the error concealment audio information provides for a good
   hearing impression even in the case that one or more audio frames are lost. The error
   concealment is performed on the basis of a time domain excitation signal, wherein a
   variation of the signal characteristics of the audio content during the lost audio frame is
20 considered by modifying the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of the
   one more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame.
   Moreover, it should be noted that the audio decoder 200 can be supplemented by any of
   the features and functionalities described herein, either individually or in combination.
25
   3. Audio Decoder According to Fig. 3
   Fig. 3 shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder 300, according to another
   embodiment of the present invention.
30
   The audio decoder 300 is configured to receive an encoded audio information 310 and to
   provide, on the basis thereof, a decoded audio information 312. The audio decoder 300
   comprises a bitstream analyzer 320, which may also be designated as a "bitstream
   deformatter" or "bitstream parser". The bitstream analyzer 320 receives the encoded
35 audio information    310 and     provides, on the basis thereof, a frequency domain
   representation 322 and possibly additional control information 324. The frequency domain

                                                36
   representation 322 may, for example, comprise encoded spectral values 326, encoded
   scale factors 328 and, optionally, an additional side information 330 which may, for
   example, control specific processing steps, like, for example, a noise filling, an
   intermediate processing or a post-processing. The audio decoder 300 also comprises a
 5 spectral value decoding 340 which is configured to receive the encoded spectral values
   326, and to provide, on the basis thereof, a set of decoded spectral values 342. The audio
   decoder 300 may also comprise a scale factor decoding 350, which may be configured to
   receive the encoded scale factors 328 and to provide, on the basis thereof, a set of
   decoded scale factors 352.
10
   Alternatively to the scale factor decoding, an LPC-to-scale factor conversion 354 may be
   used, for example, in the case that the encoded audio information comprises an encoded
   LPC information, rather than an scale factor information. However, in some coding modes
   (for example, in the TCX decoding mode of the USAC audio decoder or in the EVS audio
15 decoder) a set of LPC coefficients may be used to derive a set of scale factors at the side
   of the audio decoder. This functionality may be reached by the LPC-to-scale factor
   conversion 354.
   The audio decoder 300 may also comprise a scaler 360, which may be configured to
20 apply the set of scaled factors 352 to the set of spectral values 342, to thereby obtain a
   set of scaled decoded spectral values 362. For example, a first frequency band
   comprising multiple decoded spectral values 342 may be scaled using a first scale factor,
   and a second frequency band comprising multiple decoded spectral values 342 may be
   scaled using a second scale factor. Accordingly, the set of scaled decoded spectral values
25 362 is obtained. The audio decoder 300 may further comprise an optional processing 366,
   which may apply some processing to the scaled decoded spectral values 362. For
   example, the optional processing 366 may comprise a noise filling or some other
   operations.
30 The audio decoder 300 also comprises a frequency-domain-to-time-domain transform
   370, which is configured to receive the scaled decoded spectral values 362, or a
   processed version 368 thereof, and to provide a time domain representation 372
   associated with a set of scaled decoded spectral values 362. For example, the frequency
   domain-to-time domain transform 370 may provide a time domain representation 372,
35 which is associated with a frame or sub-frame of the audio content. For example, the
   frequency-domain-to-time-domain transform may receive a set of MDCT coefficients

                                                37
   (which can be considered as scaled decoded spectral values) and provide, on the basis
   thereof, a block of time domain samples, which may form the time domain representation
   372.
 5 The audio decoder 300 may optionally comprise a post-processing 376, which may
   receive the time domain representation 372 and somewhat modify the time domain
   representation 372, to thereby obtain a post-processed version 378 of the time domain
   representation 372.
10 The audio decoder 300 also comprises an error concealment 380 which may, for
   example, receive the time domain representation 372 from the frequency-domain-to-time
   domain transform 370 and which may, for example, provide an error concealment audio
   information 382 for one or more lost audio frames. In other words, if an audio frame is lost,
   such that, for example, no encoded spectral values 326 are available for said audio frame
15 (or audio sub-frame), the error concealment 380 may provide the error concealment audio
   information on the basis of the time domain representation 372 associated with one or
   more audio frames preceding the lost audio frame. The error concealment audio
   information may typically be a time domain representation of an audio content.
20 It should be noted that the error concealment 380 may, for example, perform the
   functionality of the error concealment 130 described above. Also, the error concealment
   380 may, for example, comprise the functionality of the error concealment 500 described
   taking reference to Fig. 5. However, generally speaking, the error concealment 380 may
   comprise any of the features and functionalities described with respect to the error
25 concealment herein.
   Regarding the error concealment, it should be noted that the error concealment does not
   happen at the same time of the frame decoding. For example if the frame n is good then
   we do a normal decoding, and at the end we save some variable that will help if we have
30 to conceal the next frame, then if n+1 is lost we call the concealment function giving the
   variable coming from the previous good frame. We will also update some variables to help
   for the next frame loss or on the recovery to the next good frame.
   The audio decoder 300 also comprises a signal combination 390, which is configured to
35 receive the time domain representation 372 (or the post-processed time domain
   representation 378 in case that there is a post-processing 376). Moreover, the signal

                                                 38
   combination 390 may receive the error concealment audio information 382, which is
   typically also a time domain representation of an error concealment audio signal provided
   for a lost audio frame. The signal combination 390 may, for example, combine time
   domain representations associated with subsequent audio frames. In the case that there
 5 are subsequent properly decoded audio frames, the signal combination 390 may combine
   (for example, overlap-and-add) time domain representations associated with these
   subsequent properly decoded audio frames. However, if an audio frame is lost, the signal
   combination     390 may combine (for example, overlap-and-add) the time domain
   representation associated with the properly decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio
10 frame and the error concealment audio information associated with the lost audio frame,
   to thereby have a smooth transition between the properly received audio frame and the
   lost audio frame. Similarly, the signal combination 390 may be configured to combine (for
   example, overlap-and-add) the error concealment audio information associated with the
   lost audio frame and the time domain representation associated with another properly
15 decoded audio frame following the lost audio frame (or another error concealment audio
   information associated with another lost audio frame in case that multiple consecutive
   audio frames are lost).
   Accordingly, the signal combination 390 may provide a decoded audio information 312,
20 such that the time domain representation 372, or a post processed version 378 thereof, is
   provided for properly decoded audio frames, and such that the error concealment audio
   information 382 is provided for lost audio frames, wherein an overlap-and-add operation is
   typically performed between the audio information (irrespective of whether it is provided
   by the frequency-domain-to-time-domain transform 370 or by the error concealment 380)
25 of subsequent audio frames. Since some codecs have some aliasing on the overlap and
   add part that need to be canceled, optionally we can create some artificial aliasing on the
   half a frame that we have created to perform the overlap add.
   It should be noted that the functionality of the audio decoder 300 is similar to the
30 functionality of the audio decoder 100 according to Fig. 1, wherein additional details are
   shown in Fig. 3. Moreover, it should be noted that the audio decoder 300 according to Fig.
   3 can be supplemented by any of the features and functionalities described herein. In
   particular, the error concealment 380 can be supplemented by any of the features and
   functionalities described herein with respect to the error concealment.
35

                                                 39
   4. Audio Decoder 400 According to Fig. 4
   Fig. 4 shows an audio decoder 400 according to another embodiment of the present
   invention. The audio decoder 400 is configured to receive an encoded audio information
 5 and to provide, on the basis thereof, a decoded audio information 412. The audio decoder
   400 may, for example, be configured to receive an encoded audio information 410,
   wherein different audio frames are encoded using different encoding modes. For example,
   the audio decoder 400 may be considered as a multi-mode audio decoder or a "switching"
   audio decoder. For example, some of the audio frames may be encoded using a
10 frequency domain representation, wherein the encoded audio information comprises an
   encoded representation of spectral values (for example, FFT values or MDCT values) and
   scale factors representing a scaling of different frequency bands. Moreover, the encoded
   audio information 410 may also comprise a "time domain representation" of audio frames,
   or a "linear-prediction-coding domain representation" of multiple audio frames. The "linear
15 prediction-coding     domain    representation"    (also  briefly  designated    as    "LPC
   representation") may, for example, comprise an encoded representation of an excitation
   signal, and an encoded representation of LPC parameters (linear-prediction-coding
   parameters), wherein the linear-prediction-coding parameters describe, for example, a
   linear-prediction-coding synthesis filter, which is used to reconstruct an audio signal on
20 the basis of the time domain excitation signal.
   In the following, some details of the audio decoder 400 will be described.
   The audio decoder 400 comprises a bitstream analyzer 420 which may, for example,
25 analyze the encoded audio information 410 and extract, from the encoded audio
   information 410, a frequency domain representation 422, comprising, for example,
   encoded spectral values, encoded scale factors and, optionally, an additional side
   information. The bitstream analyzer 420 may also be configured to extract a linear
   prediction coding domain representation 424, which may, for example, comprise an
30 encoded excitation 426 and encoded linear-prediction-coefficients 428 (which may also be
   considered as encoded linear-prediction parameters). Moreover, the bitstream analyzer
   may optionally extract additional side information, which may be used for controlling
   additional processing steps, from the encoded audio information.
35 The audio decoder 400 comprises a frequency domain decoding path 430, which may, for
   example, be substantially identical to the decoding path of the audio decoder 300

                                                40
   according to Fig. 3. In other words, the frequency domain decoding path 430 may
   comprise a spectral value decoding 340, a scale factor decoding 350, a scaler 360, an
   optional processing 366, a frequency-domain-to-time-domain transform 370, an optional
   post-processing 376 and an error concealment 380 as described above with reference to
 5 Fig. 3.
   The audio decoder 400 may also comprise a linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440
   (which may also be considered as a time domain decoding path, since the LPC synthesis
   is performed in the time domain). The linear-prediction-domain decoding path comprises
10 an excitation decoding 450, which receives the encoded excitation 426 provided by the
   bitstream analyzer 420 and provides, on the basis thereof, a decoded excitation 452
   (which may take the form of a decoded time domain excitation signal). For example, the
   excitation decoding 450 may receive an encoded transform-coded-excitation information,
   and may provide, on the basis thereof, a decoded time domain excitation signal. Thus, the
15 excitation decoding 450 may, for example, perform a functionality which is performed by
   the excitation decoder 730 described taking reference to Fig. 7. However, alternatively or
   in addition, the excitation decoding 450 may receive an encoded ACELP excitation, and
   may provide the decoded time domain excitation signal 452 on the basis of said encoded
   ACELP excitation information.
20
   It should be noted that there different options for the excitation decoding. Reference is
   made, for example, to the relevant Standards and publications defining the CELP coding
   concepts, the ACELP coding concepts, modifications of the CELP coding concepts and of
   the ACELP coding concepts and the TCX coding concept.
25
   The linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440 optionally comprises a processing 454 in
   which a processed time domain excitation signal 456 is derived from the time domain
   excitation signal 452.
30 The linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440 also comprises a linear-prediction
   coefficient decoding 460, which is configured to receive encoded linear prediction
   coefficients and to provide, on the basis thereof, decoded linear prediction coefficients
   462. The linear-prediction coefficient decoding 460 may use different representations of a
   linear prediction coefficient as an input information 428 and may provide different
35 representations of the decoded linear prediction coefficients as the output information 462.

                                                 41
   For details, reference to made to different Standard documents in which an encoding
   and/or decoding of linear prediction coefficients is described.
   The linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440 optionally comprises a processing 464,
 5 which may process the decoded linear prediction coefficients and provide a processed
   version 466 thereof.
   The linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440 also comprises a LPC synthesis (linear
   prediction coding synthesis) 470, which is configured to receive the decoded excitation
10 452, or the processed version 456 thereof, and the decoded linear prediction coefficients
   462, or the processed version 466 thereof, and to provide a decoded time domain audio
   signal 472. For example, the LPC synthesis 470 may be configured to apply a filtering,
   which is defined by the decoded linear-prediction coefficients 462 (or the processed
   version 466 thereof) to the decoded time domain excitation signal 452, or the processed
15 version thereof, such that the decoded time domain audio signal 472 is obtained by
   filtering (synthesis-filtering) the time domain excitation signal 452 (or 456). The linear
   prediction domain decoding path 440 may optionally comprise a post-processing 474,
   which may be used to refine or adjust characteristics of the decoded time domain audio
   signal 472.
20
   The linear-prediction-domain decoding path 440 also comprises an error concealment
   480, which is configured to receive the decoded linear prediction coefficients 462 (or the
   processed version 466 thereof) and the decoded time domain excitation signal 452 (or the
   processed version 456 thereof). The error concealment 480 may optionally receive
25 additional information, like for example a pitch information. The error concealment 480
   may consequently provide an error concealment audio information, which may be in the
   form of a time domain audio signal, in case that a frame (or sub-frame) of the encoded
   audio information 410 is lost. Thus, the error concealment 480 may provide the error
   concealment audio information 482 such that the characteristics of the error concealment
30 audio information 482 are substantially adapted to the characteristics of a last properly
   decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio frame. It should be noted that the error
   concealment 480 may comprise any of the features and functionalities described with
   respect to the error concealment 240. In addition, it should be noted that the error
   concealment 480 may also comprise any of the features and functionalities described with
35 respect to the time domain concealment of Fig. 6.

                                                  42
   The audio decoder 400 also comprises a signal combiner (or signal combination 490),
   which is configured to receive the decoded time domain audio signal 372 (or the post
   processed version 378 thereof), the error concealment audio information 382 provided by
   the error concealment 380, the decoded time domain audio signal 472 (or the post
 5 processed version 476 thereof) and the error concealment audio information 482 provided
   by the error concealment 480. The signal combiner 490 may be configured to combine
   said signals 372 (or 378), 382, 472 (or 476) and 482 to thereby obtain the decoded audio
   information 412. In particular, an overlap-and-add operation may be applied by the signal
   combiner 490. Accordingly, the signal combiner 490 may provide smooth transitions
10 between subsequent audio frames for which the time domain audio signal is provided by
   different entities (for example, by different decoding paths 430, 440). However, the signal
   combiner 490 may also provide for smooth transitions if the time domain audio signal is
   provided by the same entity (for example, frequency domain-to-time-domain transform
   370 or LPC synthesis 470) for subsequent frames. Since some codecs have some
15 aliasing on the overlap and add part that need to be canceled, optionally we can create
   some artificial aliasing on the half a frame that we have created to perform the overlap
   add. In other words, an artificial time domain aliasing compensation (TDAC) may
   optionally be used.
20 Also, the signal combiner 490 may provide smooth transitions to and from frames for
   which an error concealment audio information (which is typically also a time domain audio
   signal) is provided.
   To summarize, the audio decoder 400 allows to decode audio frames which are encoded
25 in the frequency domain and audio frames which are encoded in the linear prediction
   domain. In particular, it is possible to switch between a usage of the frequency domain
   decoding path and a usage of the linear prediction domain decoding path in dependence
   on the signal characteristics (for example, using a signaling information provided by an
   audio encoder). Different types of error concealment may be used for providing an error
30 concealment audio information in the case of a frame loss, depending on whether a last
   properly decoded audio frame was encoded in the frequency domain (or, equivalently, in a
   frequency-domain representation), or in the time domain (or equivalently, in a time domain
   representation, or , equivalently, in a linear-prediction domain, or, equivalently, in a linear
   prediction domain representation).
35

                                                  43
   5. Time Domain Concealment According to Fig. 5
   Fig. 5 shows a block schematic diagram of an error concealment according to an
   embodiment of the present invention. The error concealment according to Fig. 5 is
 5 designated in its entirety as 500.
   The error concealment 500 is configured to receive a time domain audio signal 510 and to
   provide, on the basis thereof, an error concealment audio information 512, which may, for
   example, take the form of a time domain audio signal.
10
   It should be noted that the error concealment 500 may, for example, take the place of the
   error concealment 130, such that the error concealment audio information 512 may
   correspond to the error concealment audio information 132. Moreover, it should be noted
   that the error concealment 500 may take the place of the error concealment 380, such
15 that the time domain audio signal 510 may correspond to the time domain audio signal
   372 (or to the time domain audio signal 378), and such that the error concealment audio
   information 512 may correspond to the error concealment audio information 382.
   The error concealment 500 comprises a pre-emphasis 520, which may be considered as
20 optional. The pre-emphasis receives the time domain audio signal and provides, on the
   basis thereof, a pre-emphasized time domain audio signal 522.
   The error concealment 500 also comprises a LPC analysis 530, which is configured to
   receive the time domain audio signal 510, or the pre-emphasized version 522 thereof, and
25 to obtain an LPC information 532, which may comprise a set of LPC parameters 532. For
   example, the LPC information may comprise a set of LPC filter coefficients (or a
   representation thereof) and a time domain excitation signal (which is adapted for an
   excitation of an LPC synthesis filter configured in accordance with the LPC filter
   coefficients, to reconstruct, at least approximately, the input signal of the LPC analysis).
30
   The error concealment 500 also comprises a pitch search 540, which is configured to
   obtain a pitch information 542, for example, on the basis of a previously decoded audio
   frame.
35 The error concealment 500 also comprises an extrapolation 550, which may be configured
   to obtain an extrapolated time domain excitation signal on the basis of the result of the

                                                44
   LPC analysis (for example, on the basis of the time-domain excitation signal determined
   by the LPC analysis), and possibly on the basis of the result of the pitch search.
   The error concealment 500 also comprises a noise generation 560, which provides a
 5 noise signal 562. The error concealment 500 also comprises a combiner/fader 570, which
   is configured to receive the extrapolated time-domain excitation signal 552 and the noise
   signal 562, and to provide, on the basis thereof, a combined time domain excitation signal
   572. The combiner/fader 570 may be configured to combine the extrapolated time domain
   excitation signal 552 and the noise signal 562, wherein a fading may be performed, such
10 that a relative contribution of the extrapolated time domain excitation signal 552 (which
   determines a deterministic component of the input signal of the LPC synthesis) decreases
   over time while a relative contribution of the noise signal 562 increases over time.
   However, a different functionality of the combiner/fader is also possible. Also, reference is
   made to the description below.
15
   The error concealment 500 also comprises a LPC synthesis 580, which receives the
   combined time domain excitation signal 572 and which provides a time domain audio
   signal 582 on the basis thereof. For example, the LPC synthesis may also receive LPC
   filter coefficients describing a LPC shaping filter, which is applied to the combined time
20 domain excitation signal 572, to derive the time domain audio signal 582. The LPC
   synthesis 580 may, for example, use LPC coefficients obtained on the basis of one or
   more previously decoded audio frames (for example, provided by the LPC analysis 530).
   The error concealment 500 also comprises a de-emphasis 584, which may be considered
25 as being optional. The de-emphasis 584 may provide a de-emphasized error concealment
   time domain audio signal 586.
   The error concealment 500 also comprises, optionally, an overlap-and-add 590, which
   performs an overlap-and-add operation of time domain audio signals associated with
30 subsequent frames (or sub-frames). However, it should be noted that the overlap-and-add
   590 should be considered as optional, since the error concealment may also use a signal
   combination which is already provided in the audio decoder environment. For example,
   the overlap-and-add 590 may be replaced by the signal combination 390 in the audio
   decoder 300 in some embodiments.
35

                                                 45
   In the following, some further details regarding the error concealment 500 will be
   described.
   The error concealment 500 according to Fig. 5 covers the context of a transform domain
 5 codec as AAC_LC or AACELD. Worded differently, the error concealment 500 is well
   adapted for usage in such a transform domain codec (and, in particular, in such a
   transform domain audio decoder). In the case of a transform codec only (for example, in
   the absence of a linear-prediction-domain decoding path), an output signal from a last
   frame is used as a starting point. For example, a time domain audio signal 372 may be
10 used as a starting point for the error concealment. Preferably, no excitation signal is
   available, just an output time domain signal from (one or more) previous frames (like, for
   example, the time domain audio signal 372).
   In the following, the sub-units and functionalities of the error concealment 500 will be
15 described in more detail.
   5.1. LPC Analysis
   In the embodiment according to Fig. 5, all of the concealment is done in the excitation
20 domain to get a smoother transition between consecutive frames. Therefore, it is
   necessary first to find (or, more generally, obtain) a proper set of LPC parameters. In the
   embodiment according to Fig. 5, an LPC analysis 530 is done on the past pre-emphasized
   time domain signal 522. The LPC parameters (or LPC filter coefficients) are used to
   perform LPC analysis of the past synthesis signal (for example, on the basis of the time
25 domain audio signal 510, or on the basis of the pre-emphasized time domain audio signal
   522) to get an excitation signal (for example, a time domain excitation signal).
   5.2. Pitch Search
30 There are different approaches to get the pitch to be used for building the new signal (for
   example, the error concealment audio information).
   In the context of the codec using an LTP filter (long-term-prediction filter), like AAC-LTP, if
   the last frame was AAC with LTP, we use this last received LTP pitch lag and the
35 corresponding gain for generating the harmonic part. In this case, the gain is used to
   decide whether to build harmonic part in the signal or not. For example, if the LTP gain is

                                                   46
   higher than 0.6 (or any other predetermined value), then the LTP information is used to
   build the harmonic part.
   If there is not any pitch information available from the previous frame, then there are, for
 5 example, two solutions, which will be described in the following.
   For example, it is possible to do a pitch search at the encoder and transmit in the
   bitstream the pitch lag and the gain. This is similar to the LTP, but there is not applied any
   filtering (also no LTP filtering in the clean channel).
10
   Alternatively, it is possible to perform a pitch search in the decoder. The AMR-WB pitch
   search in case of TCX is done in the FFT domain. In ELD, for example, if the MDCT
   domain was used then the phases would be missed. Therefore, the pitch search is
   preferably done directly in the excitation domain. This gives better results than doing the
15 pitch search in the synthesis domain. The pitch search in the excitation domain is done
   first with an open loop by a normalized cross correlation. Then, optionally, we refine the
   pitch search by doing a closed loop search around the open loop pitch with a certain delta.
   Due to the ELD windowing limitations, a wrong pitch could be found, thus we also verify
   that the found pitch is correct or discard it otherwise.
20
   To conclude, the pitch of the last properly decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio
   frame may be considered when providing the error concealment audio information. In
   some cases, there is a pitch information available from the decoding of the previous frame
   (i.e. the last frame preceding the lost audio frame). In this case, this pitch can be reused
25 (possibly with some extrapolation and a consideration of a pitch change over time). We
   can also optionally reuse the pitch of more than one frame of the past to try to extrapolate
   the pitch that we need at the end of our concealed frame.
   Also, if there is an information (for example, designated as long-term-prediction gain)
30 available, which describes an intensity (or relative intensity) of a deterministic (for
   example, at least approximately periodic) signal component, this value can be used to
   decide whether a deterministic (or harmonic) component should be included into the error
   concealment audio information. In other words, by comparing said value (for example,
   LTP gain) with a predetermined threshold value, it can be decided whether a time domain
35 excitation signal derived from a previously decoded audio frame should be considered for
   the provision of the error concealment audio information or not.

                                                  47
   If there is no pitch information available from the previous frame (or, more precisely, from
   the decoding of the previous frame), there are different options. The pitch information
   could be transmitted from an audio encoder to an audio decoder, which would simplify the
 5 audio decoder but create a bitrate overhead. Alternatively, the pitch information can be
   determined in the audio decoder, for example, in the excitation domain, i.e. on the basis of
   a time domain excitation signal. For example, the time domain excitation signal derived
   from a previous, properly decoded audio frame can be evaluated to identify the pitch
   information to be used for the provision of the error concealment audio information.
10
   5.3. Extrapolation of the Excitation or Creation of the Harmonic Part
   The excitation (for example, the time domain excitation signal) obtained from the previous
   frame (either just computed for lost frame or saved already in the previous lost frame for
15 multiple frame loss) is used to build the harmonic part (also designated as deterministic
   component or approximately periodic component) in the excitation (for example, in the
   input signal of the LPC synthesis) by copying the last pitch cycle as many times as
   needed to get one and a half of the frame. To save complexity we can also create one
   and an half frame only for the first loss frame and then shift the processing for subsequent
20 frame loss by half a frame and create only one frame each. Then we always have access
   to half a frame of overlap.
   In case of the first lost frame after a good frame (i.e. a properly decoded frame), the first
   pitch cycle (for example, of the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of the
25 last properly decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio frame) is low-pass filtered with
   a sampling rate dependent filter (since ELD covers a really broad sampling rate
   combination - going from AAC-ELD core to AAC-ELD with SBR or AAC-ELD dual rate
   SBR).
30 The pitch in a voice signal is almost always changing. Therefore, the concealment
   presented above tends to create some problems (or at least distortions) at the recovery
   because the pitch at end of the concealed signal (i.e. at the end of the error concealment
   audio information) often does not match the pitch of the first good frame. Therefore,
   optionally, in some embodiments it is tried to predict the pitch at the end of the concealed
35 frame to match the pitch at the beginning of the recovery frame. For example, the pitch at
   the end of a lost frame (which is considered as a concealed frame) is predicted, wherein

                                                    48
   the target of the prediction is to set the pitch at the end of the lost frame (concealed frame)
   to approximate the pitch at the beginning of the first properly decoded frame following one
   or more lost frames (which first properly decoded frame is also called "recovery frame").
   This could be done during the frame loss or during the first good frame (i.e. during the first
 5 properly received frame). To get even better results, it is possible to optionally reuse some
   conventional    tools    and  adapt    them,    such   as the    Pitch    Prediction and   Pulse
   resynchronization. For details, reference is made, for example, to reference [6] and [7].
   If a long-term-prediction (LTP) is used in a frequency domain codec, it is possible to use
10 the lag as the starting information about the pitch. However, in some embodiments, it is
   also desired to have a better granularity to be able to better track the pitch contour.
   Therefore, it is preferred to do a pitch search at the beginning and at the end of the last
   good (properly decoded) frame. To adapt the signal to the moving pitch, it is desirable to
   use a pulse resynchronization, which is present in the state of the art.
15
   5.4. Gain of Pitch
   In some embodiments, it is preferred to apply a gain on the previously obtained excitation
   in order to reach the desired level. The "gain of the pitch" (for example, the gain of the
20 deterministic component of the time domain excitation signal, i.e. the gain applied to a
   time domain excitation signal derived from a previously decoded audio frame, in order to
   obtain the input signal of the LPC synthesis), may, for example, be obtained by doing a
   normalized correlation in the time domain at the end of the last good (for example,
   properly decoded) frame. The length of the correlation may be equivalent to two sub
25 frames' length, or can be adaptively changed. The deay is equivalent to the pitch lag used
   for the creation of the harmonic part. We can also optionally perform the gain calculation
   only on the first lost frame and then only apply a fadeout (reduced gain) for the following
   consecutive frame loss.
30 The "gain of pitch" will determine the amount of tonality (or the amount of deterministic, at
   least approximately periodic signal components) that will be created. However, it is
   desirable to add some shaped noise to not have only an artificial tone. If we get very low
   gain of the pitch then we construct a signal that consists only of a shaped noise.
35 To conclude, in some cases the time domain excitation signal obtained, for example, on
   the basis of a previously decoded audio frame, is scaled in dependence on the gain (for

                                                  49
   example, to obtain the input signal for the LPC analysis). Accordingly, since the time
   domain excitation signal determines a deterministic (at least approximately periodic)
   signal component, the gain may determine a relative intensity of said deterministic (at
   least approximately periodic) signal components in the error concealment audio
 5 information. In addition, the error concealment audio information may be based on a
   noise, which is also shaped by the LPC synthesis, such that a total energy of the error
   concealment audio information is adapted, at least to some degree, to a properly decoded
   audio frame preceding the lost audio frame and, ideally, also to a properly decoded audio
   frame following the one or more lost audio frames.
10
   5.5. Creation of the Noise Part
   An "innovation" is created by a random noise generator. This noise is optionally further
   high pass filtered and optionally pre-emphasized for voiced and onset frames. As for the
15 low pass of the harmonic part, this filter (for example, the high-pass filter) is sampling rate
   dependent. This noise (which is provided, for example, by a noise generation 560) will be
   shaped by the LPC (for example, by the LPC synthesis 580) to get as close to the
   background noise as possible. The high pass characteristic is also optionally changed
   over consecutive frame loss such that aver a certain amount a frame loos the is no
20 filtering anymore to only get the full band shaped noise to get a comfort noise closed to
   the background noise.
   An innovation gain (which may, for example, determine a gain of the noise 562 in the
   combination/fading 570, i.e. a gain using which the noise signal 562 is included into the
25 input signal 572 of the LPC synthesis) is, for example, calculated by removing the
   previously computed contribution of the pitch (if it exists) (for example, a scaled version,
   scaled using the "gain of pitch", of the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis
   of the last properly decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio frame) and doing a
   correlation at the end of the last good frame. As for the pitch gain, this could be done
30 optionally only on the first lost frame and then fade out, but in this case the fade out could
   be either going to 0 that results to a completed muting or to an estimate noise level
   present in the background. The length of the correlation is, for example, equivalent to two
   sub-frames' length and the delay is equivalent to tte pitch lag used for the creation of the
   harmonic part.
35

                                                     50
   Optionally, this gain is also multiplied by (1-"gain of pitch") to apply as much gain on the
   noise to reach the energy missing if the gain of pitch is not one. Optionally, this gain is
   also multiplied by a factor of noise. This factor of noise is coming, for example, from the
   previous valid frame (for example, from the last properly decoded audio frame preceding
 5 the lost audio frame).
   5.6. Fade Out
   Fade out is mostly used for multiple frames loss. However, fade out may also be used in
10 the case that only a single audio frame is lost.
   In case of a multiple frame loss, the LPC parameters are not recalculated. Either, the last
   computed one is kept, or LPC concealment is done by converging to a background shape.
   In this case, the periodicity of the signal is converged to zero. For example, the time
15 domain excitation signal 502 obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding
   a lost audio frame is still using a gain which is gradually reduced over time while the noise
   signal 562 is kept constant or scaled with a gain which is gradually increasing over time,
   such that the relative weight of the time domain excitation signal 552 is reduced over time
   when compared to the relative weight of the noise signal 562. Consequently, the input
20 signal 572 of the LPC synthesis 580 is getting more and more "noise-like". Consequently,
   the "periodicity" (or, more precisely, the deterministic, or at least approximately periodic
   component of the output signal 582 of the LPC synthesis 580) is reduced over time.
   The speed of the convergence according to which the periodicity of the signal 572, and/or
25 the periodicity of the signal 582, is converged to 0 is dependent on the parameters of the
   last correctly received (or properly decoded) frame and/or the number of consecutive
   erased frames, and is controlled by an attenuation factor, a The factor, p is further
   dependent on the stability of the LP filter. Optionally, it is possible to alter the factor dn
   ratio with the pitch length. If the pitch (for example, a period length associated with the
30 pitch) is really long, then we keep d'normal", but if the pitch is really short, it is typically
   necessary to copy a lot of times the same part of past excitation. This will quickly sound
   too artificial, and therefore it is preferred to fade out faster this signal.
   Further optionally, if available, we can take into account the pitch prediction output. If a
35 pitch is predicted, it means that the pitch was already changing in the previous frame and

                                                  51
   then the more frames we loose the more far we are from the truth. Therefore, it is
   preferred to speed up a bit the fade out of the tonal part in this case.
   If the pitch prediction failed because the pitch is changing too much, it means that either
 5 the pitch values are not really reliable or that the signal is really unpredictable. Therefore,
   again, it is preferred to fade out faster (for example, to fade out faster the time domain
   excitation signal 552 obtained on the basis of one or more properly decoded audio frames
   preceding the one or more lost audio frames).
10 5.7. LPC Synthesis
   To come back to time domain, it is preferred to perform a LPC synthesis 580 on the
   summation of the two excitations (tonal part and noisy part) followed by a de-emphasis.
   Worded differently, it is preferred to perform the LPC synthesis 580 on the basis of a
15 weighted combination of a time domain excitation signal 552 obtained on the basis of one
   or more properly decoded audio frames preceding the lost audio frame (tonal part) and
   the noise signal 562 (noisy part). As mentioned above, the time domain excitation signal
   552 may be modified when compared to the time domain excitation signal 532 obtained
   by the LPC analysis 530 (in addition to LPC coefficients describing a characteristic of the
20 LPC synthesis filter used for the LPC synthesis 580). For example, the time domain
   excitation signal 552 may be a time scaled copy of the time domain excitation signal 532
   obtained by the LPC analysis 530, wherein the time scaling may be used to adapt the
   pitch of the time domain excitation signal 552 to a desired pitch.
25 5.8. Overlap-and-Add
   In the case of a transform codec only, to get the best overlap-add we create an artificial
   signal for half a frame more than the concealed frame and we create artificial aliasing on
   it. However, different overlap-add concepts may be applied.
30
   In the context of regular AAC or TCX, an overlap-and-add is applied between the extra
   half frame coming from concealment and the first part of the first good frame (could be
   half or less for lower delay windows as AAC-LD).
35 In the special case of ELD (extra low delay), for the first lost frame, it is preferred to run
   the analysis three times to get the proper contribution from the last three windows and

                                                 52
   then for the first concealment frame and all the following ones the analysis is run one
   more time. Then one ELD synthesis is done to be back in time domain with all the proper
   memory for the following frame in the MDCT domain.
 5 To conclude, the input signal 572 of the LPC synthesis 580 (and/or the time domain
   excitation signal 552) may be provided for a temporal duration which is longer than a
   duration of a lost audio frame. Accordingly, the output signal 582 of the LPC synthesis 580
   may also be provided for a time period which is longer than a lost audio frame.
   Accordingly, an overlap-and-add can be performed between the error concealment audio
10 information (which is consequently obtained for a longer time period than a temporal
   extension of the lost audio frame) and a decoded audio information provided for a properly
   decoded audio frame following one or more lost audio frames.
   To summarize, the error concealment 500 is well-adapted to the case in which the audio
15 frames are encoded in the frequency domain. Even though the audio frames are encoded
   in the frequency domain, the provision of the error concealment audio information is
   performed on the basis of a time domain excitation signal. Different modifications are
   applied to the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more properly
   decoded audio frames preceding a lost audio frame. For example, the time domain
20 excitation signal provided by the LPC analysis 530 is adapted to pitch changes, for
   example, using a time scaling. Moreover, the time domain excitation signal provided by
   the LPC analysis 530 is also modified by a scaling (application of a gain), wherein a fade
   out of the deterministic (or tonal, or at least approximately periodic) component may be
   performed by the scaler/fader 570, such that the input signal 572 of the LPC synthesis
25 580 comprises both a component which is derived from the time domain excitation signal
   obtained by the LPC analysis and a noise component which is based on the noise signal
   562. The deterministic component of the input signal 572 of the LPC synthesis 580 is,
   however, typically modified (for example, time scaled and/or amplitude scaled) with
   respect to the time domain excitation signal provided by the LPC analysis 530.
30
   Thus, the time domain excitation signal can be adapted to the needs, and an unnatural
   hearing impression is avoided.
35

                                                   53
   6 Time Domain Concealment According to Fig. 6
   Fig. 6 shows a block schematic diagram of a time domain concealment which can be used
   for a switch codec. For example, the time domain concealment 600 according to Fig. 6
 5 may, for example, take the place of the error concealment 240 or the place of the error
   concealment 480.
   Moreover, it should be noted that the embodiment according to Fig. 6 covers the context
   (may be used within the context) of a switch codec using time and frequency domain
10 combined, such as USAC (MPEG-D/MPEG-H) or EVS (3GPP). In other words, the time
   domain concealment 600 may be used in audio decoders in which there is a switching
   between a frequency domain decoding and a time decoding (or, equivalently, a linear
   prediction-coefficient based decoding).
15 However, it should be noted that the error concealment 600 according to Fig. 6 may also
   be used in audio decoders which merely perform a decoding in the time domain (or
   equivalently, in the linear-prediction-coefficient domain).
   In the case of a switched codec (and even in the case of a codec merely performing the
20 decoding in the linear-prediction-coefficient domain) we usually already have the
   excitation signal (for example, the time domain excitation signal) coming from a previous
   frame (for example, a properly decoded audio frame preceding a lost audio frame).
   Otherwise (for example, if the time domain excitation signal is not available), it is possible
   to do as explained in the embodiment according to Fig. 5, i.e. to perform an LPC analysis.
25 If the previous frame was ACELP like, we also have already the pitch information of the
   sub-frames in the last frame. If the last frame was TCX (transform coded excitation) with
   LTP (long term prediction) we have also the lag information coming from the long term
   prediction. And if the last frame was in the frequency domain without long term prediction
   (LTP) then the pitch search is preferably done directly in the excitation domain (for
30 example, on the basis of a time domain excitation signal provided by an LPC analysis).
   If the decoder is using already some LPC parameters in the time domain, we are reusing
   them and extrapolate a new set of LPC parameters. The extrapolation of the LPC
   parameters is based on the past LPC, for example the mean of the last three frames and
35 (optionally) the LPC shape derived during the DTX noise estimation if DTX (discontinuous
   transmission) exists in the codec.

                                                 54
   All of the concealment is done in the excitation domain to get smoother transition between
   consecutive frames.
 5 In the following, the error concealment 600 according to Fig. 6 will be described in more
   detail.
   The error concealment 600 receives a past excitation 610 and a past pitch information
   640. Moreover, the error concealment 600 provides an error concealment audio
10 information 612.
   It should be noted that the past excitation 610 received by the error concealment 600
   may, for example, correspond to the output 532 of the LPC analysis 530. Moreover, the
   past pitch information 640 may, for example, correspond to the output information 542 of
15 the pitch search 540.
   The error concealment 600 further comprises an extrapolation 650, which may correspond
   to the extrapolation 550, such that reference is made to the above discussion.
20 Moreover, the error concealment comprises a noise generator 660, which may correspond
   to the noise generator 560, such that reference is made to the above discussion.
   The extrapolation 650 provides an extrapolated time domain excitation signal 652, which
   may correspond to the extrapolated time domain excitation signal 552. The noise
25 generator 660 provides a noise signal 662, which corresponds to the noise signal 562.
   The error concealment 600 also comprises a combiner/fader 670, which receives the
   extrapolated time domain excitation signal 652 and the noise signal 662 and provides, on
   the basis thereof, an input signal 672 for a LPC synthesis 680, wherein the LPC synthesis
30 680 may correspond to the LPC synthesis 580, such that the above explanations also
   apply. The LPC synthesis 680 provides a time domain audio signal 682, which may
   correspond to the time domain audio signal 582. The error concealment also comprises
   (optionally) a de-emphasis 684, which may correspond to the de-emphasis 584 and which
   provides a de-emphasized error concealment time domain audio signal 686. The error
35 concealment 600 optionally comprises an overlap-and-add 690, which may correspond to
   the overlap-and-add 590. However, the above explanations with respect to the overlap-

                                                   55
   and-add 590 also apply to the overlap-and-add 690. In other words the overlap-and-add
   690 may also be replaced by the audio decoder' s ove-all overlap-and-add, such that the
   output signal 682 of the LPC synthesis or the output signal 686 of the de-emphasis may
   be considered as the error concealment audio information.
 5
   To conclude, the error concealment 600 substantially differs from the error concealment
   500 in that the error concealment 600 directly obtains the past excitation information 610
   and the past pitch information 640 directly from one or more previously decoded audio
   frames without the need to perform a LPC analysis and/or a pitch analysis. However, it
10 should be noted that the error concealment 600 may, optionally, comprise a LPC analysis
   and/or a pitch analysis (pitch search).
   In the following, some details of the error concealment 600 will be described in more
   detail. However, it should be noted that the specific details should be considered as
15 examples, rather than as essential features.
   6.1. Past Pitch of Pitch Search
   There are different approaches to get the pitch to be used for building the new signal.
20
   In the context of the codec using LTP filter, like AAC-LTP, if the last frame (preceding the
   lost frame) was AAC with LTP, we have the pitch information coming from the last LTP
   pitch lag and the corresponding gain. In this case we use the gain to decide if we want to
   build harmonic part in the signal or not. For example, if the LTP gain is higher than 0.6
25 then we use the LTP information to build harmonic part.
   If we do not have any pitch information available from the previous frame, then there are,
   for example, two other solutions.
30 One solution is to do a pitch search at the encoder and transmit in the bitstream the pitch
   lag and the gain. This is similar to the long term prediction (LTP), but we are not applying
   any filtering (also no LTP filtering in the clean channel).
   Another solution is to perform a pitch search in the decoder. The AMR-WB pitch search in
35 case of TCX is done in the FFT domain. In TCX for example, we are using the MDCT
   domain, then we are missing the phases. Therefore, the pitch search is done directly in

                                                  56
   the excitation domain (for example, on the basis of the time domain excitation signal used
   as the input of the LPC synthesis, or used to derive the input for the LPC synthesis) in a
   preferred embodiment. This typically gives better results than doing the pitch search in the
   synthesis domain (for example, on the basis of a fully decoded time domain audio signal).
 5
   The pitch search in the excitation domain (for example, on the basis of the time domain
   excitation signal) is done first with an open loop by a normalized cross correlation. Then,
   optionally, the pitch search can be refined by doing a closed loop search around the open
   loop pitch with a certain delta.
10
   In preferred implementations, we do not simply consider one maximum value of the
   correlation. If we have a pitch information from a non-error prone previous frame, then we
   select the pitch that correspond to one of the five highest values in the normalized cross
   correlation domain but the closest to the previous frame pitch. Then, it is also verified that
15 the maximum found is not a wrong maximum due to the window limitation.
   To conclude, there are different concepts to determine the pitch, wherein                it is
   computationally efficient to consider a past pitch (i.e. pitch associated with a previously
   decoded audio frame). Alternatively, the pitch information may be transmitted from an
20 audio encoder to an audio decoder. As another alternative, a pitch search can be
   performed at the side of the audio decoder, wherein the pitch determination is preferably
   performed on the basis of the time domain excitation signal (i.e. in the excitation domain).
   A two stage pitch search comprising an open loop search and a closed loop search can
   be performed in order to obtain a particularly reliable and precise pitch information.
25 Alternatively, or in addition, a pitch information from a previously decoded audio frame
   may be used in order to ensure that the pitch search provides a reliable result.
   6.2. Extrapolation of the Excitation or Creation of the Harmonic Part
30 The excitation (for example, in the form of a time domain excitation signal) obtained from
   the previous frame (either just computed for lost frame or saved already in the previous
   lost frame for multiple frame loss) is used to build the harmonic part in the excitation (for
   example, the extrapolated time domain excitation signal 662) by copying the last pitch
   cycle (for example, a portion of the time domain excitation signal 610, a temporal duration
35 of which is equal to a period duration of the pitch) as many times as needed to get, for
   example, one and a half of the (lost) frame.

                                                  57
   To get even better results, it is optionally possible to reuse some tools known from state of
   the art and adapt them. For details, reference is made, for example, to reference [6] and
   [7].
 5
   It has been found that the pitch in a voice signal is almost always changing. It has been
   found that, therefore, the concealment presented above tends to create some problems at
   the recovery because the pitch at end of the concealed signal often doesn't match the
   pitch of the first good frame. Therefore, optionally, it is tried to predict the pitch at the end
10 of the concealed frame to match the pitch at the beginning of the recovery frame. This
   functionality will be performed, for example, by the extrapolation 650.
   If LTP in TCX is used, the lag can be used as the starting information about the pitch.
   However, it is desirable to have a better granularity to be able to track better the pitch
15 contour. Therefore, a pitch search is optionally done at the beginning and at the end of the
   last good frame. To adapt the signal to the moving pitch, a pulse resynchronization, which
   is present in the state of the art, may be used.
   To conclude, the extrapolation (for example, of the time domain excitation signal
20 associated with, or obtained on the basis of, a last properly decoded audio frame
   preceding the lost frame) may comprise a copying of a time portion of said time domain
   excitation signal associated with a previous audio frame, wherein the copied time portion
   may be modified in dependence on a computation, or estimation, of an (expected) pitch
   change during the lost audio frame. Different concepts are available for determining the
25 pitch change.
   6.3. Gain of Pitch
   In the embodiment according to Fig. 6, a gain is applied on the previously obtained
30 excitation in order to reach a desired level. The gain of the pitch is obtained, for example,
   by doing a normalized correlation in the time domain at the end of the last good frame. For
   example, the length of the correlation may be equivalent to two sub-frames length and the
   delay may be equivalent to the pitch lag used for the creation of the harmonic part (for
   example, for copying the time domain excitation signal). It has been found that doing the
35 gain calculation in time domain gives much more reliable gain than doing it in the
   excitation domain. The LPC are changing every frame and then applying a gain,

                                                 58
   calculated on the previous frame, on an excitation signal that will be processed by an
   other LPC set, will not give the expected energy in time domain.
   The gain of the pitch determines the amount of tonality that will be created, but some
 5 shaped noise will also be added to not have only an artificial tone. If a very low gain of
   pitch is obtained, then a signal may be constructed that consists only of a shaped noise.
   To conclude, a gain which is applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained
   on the basis of the previous frame (or a time domain excitation signal which is obtained for
10 a previously decoded frame, or which is associated to the previously decoded frame) is
   adjusted to thereby determine a weighting of a tonal (or deterministic, or at least
   approximately periodic) component within the input signal of the LPC synthesis 680, and,
   consequently, within the error concealment audio information. Said gain can be
   determined on the basis of a correlation, which is applied to the time domain audio signal
15 obtained by a decoding of the previously decoded frame (wherein said time domain audio
   signal may be obtained using a LPC synthesis which is performed in the course of the
   decoding).
   6.4. Creation of the Noise Part
20
   An innovation is created by a random noise generator 660. This noise is further high pass
   filtered and optionally pre-emphasized for voiced and onset frames. The high pass filtering
   and the pre-emphasis, which may be performed selectively for voiced and onset frames,
   are not shown explicitly in the Fig. 6, but may be performed, for example, within the noise
25 generator 660 or within the combiner/fader 670.
   The noise will be shaped (for example, after combination with the time domain excitation
   signal 652 obtained by the extrapolation 650) by the LPC to get as close as the
   background noise as possible.
30
   For example, the innovation gain may be calculated by removing the previously computed
   contribution of the pitch (if it exists) and doing a correlation at the end of the last good
   frame. The length of the correlation may be equivalent to two sub-frames length and the
   delay may be equivalent to the pitch lag used for the creation of the harmonic part.
35

                                                     59
   Optionally, this gain may also be multiplied by (1-gain of pitch) to apply as much gain on
   the noise to reach the energy missing if the gain of the pitch is not one. Optionally, this
   gain is also multiplied by a factor of noise. This factor of noise may be coming from a
   previous valid frame.
 5
   To conclude, a noise component of the error concealment audio information is obtained
   by shaping noise provided by the noise generator 660 using the LPC synthesis 680 (and,
   possibly, the de-emphasis 684). In addition, an additional high pass filtering and/or pre
   emphasis may be applied. The gain of the noise contribution to the input signal 672 of the
10 LPC synthesis 680 (also designated as "innovation gain") may be computed on the basis
   of the last properly decoded audio frame preceding the lost audio frame, wherein a
   deterministic (or at least approximately periodic) component may be removed from the
   audio frame preceding the lost audio frame, and wherein a correlation may then be
   performed to determine the intensity (or gain) of the noise component within the decoded
15 time domain signal of the audio frame preceding the lost audio frame.
   Optionally, some additional modifications may be applied to the gain of the noise
   component.
20 6.5. Fade Out
   The fade out is mostly used for multiple frames loss. However, the fade out may also be
   used in the case that only a single audio frame is lost.
25 In case of multiple frame loss, the LPC parameters are not recalculated. Either the last
   computed one is kept or an LPC concealment is performed as explained above.
   A periodicity of the signal is converged to zero. The speed of the convergence is
   dependent on the parameters of the last correctly received (or correctly decoded) frame
30 and the number of consecutive erased (or lost) frames, and is controlled by an attenuation
   factor, aThe factor, pis further dependent on th         e stability of the LP filter. Optionally, the
   factor ocan be altered in ratio with the pitch len gth. For example, if the pitch is really long
   then acan be kept normal, but if the pitch is real ly short, it may be desirable (or
   necessary) to copy a lot of times the same part of past excitation. Since it has been found
35 that this will quickly sound too artificial, the signal is therefore faded out faster.

                                                  60
   Furthermore optionally, it is possible to take into account the pitch prediction output. If a
   pitch is predicted, it means that the pitch was already changing in the previous frame and
   then the more frames are lost the more far we are from the truth. Therefore, it is desirable
   to speed up a bit the fade out of the tonal part in this case.
 5
   If the pitch prediction failed because the pitch is changing too much, this means either the
   pitch values are not really reliable or that the signal is really unpredictable. Therefore,
   again we should fade out faster.
10 To conclude, the contribution of the extrapolated time domain excitation signal 652 to the
   input signal 672 of the LPC synthesis 680 is typically reduced over time. This can be
   achieved, for example, by reducing a gain value, which is applied to the extrapolated time
   domain excitation signal 652, over time. The speed used to gradually reduce the gain
   applied to scale the time domain excitation signal 552 obtained on the basis of one or
15 more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame (or one or more copies thereof) is
   adjusted in dependence on one or more parameters of the one or more audio frames
   (and/or in dependence on a number of consecutive lost audio frames). In particular, the
   pitch length and/or the rate at which the pitch changes over time, and/or the question
   whether a pitch prediction fails or succeeds, can be used to adjust said speed.
20
   6.6. LPC Synthesis
   To come back to time domain, an LPC synthesis 680 is performed on the summation (or
   generally, weighted combination) of the two excitations (tonal part 652 and noisy part 662)
25 followed by the de-emphasis 684.
   In other words, the result of the weighted (fading) combination of the extrapolated time
   domain excitation signal 652 and the noise signal 662 forms a combined time domain
   excitation signal and is input into the LPC synthesis 680, which may, for example, perform
30 a synthesis filtering on the basis of said combined time domain excitation signal 672 in
   dependence on LPC coefficients describing the synthesis filter.
   6.7. Overlap-and-Add
35 Since it is not known during concealment what will be the mode of the next frame coming
   (for example, ACELP, TCX or FD), it is preferred to prepare different overlaps in advance.

                                                 61
   To get the best overlap-and-add if the next frame is in a transform domain (TCX or FD) an
   artificial signal (for example, an error concealment audio information) may, for example,
   be created for half a frame more than the concealed (lost) frame. Moreover, artificial
   aliasing may be created on it (wherein the artificial aliasing may, for example, be adapted
 5 to the MDCT overlap-and-add).
   To get a good overlap-and-add and no discontinuity with the future frame in time domain
   (ACELP), we do as above but without aliasing, to be able to apply long overlap add
   windows or if we want to use a square window, the zero input response (ZIR) is computed
10 at the end of the synthesis buffer.
   To conclude, in a switching audio decoder (which may, for example, switch between an
   ACELP decoding, a TCX decoding and a frequency domain decoding (FD decoding)), an
   overlap-and-add may be performed between the error concealment audio information
15 which is provided primarily for a lost audio frame, but also for a certain time portion
   following the lost audio frame, and the decoded audio information provided for the first
   properly decoded audio frame following a sequence of one or more lost audio frames. In
   order to obtain a proper overlap-and-add even for decoding modes which bring along a
   time domain aliasing at a transition between subsequent audio frames, an aliasing
20 cancelation information (for example, designated as artificial aliasing) may be provided.
   Accordingly, an overlap-and-add between the error concealment audio information and
   the time domain audio information obtained on the basis of the first properly decoded
   audio frame following a lost audio frame, results in a cancellation of aliasing.
25 If the first properly decoded audio frame following the sequence of one or more lost audio
   frames is encoded in the ACELP mode, a specific overlap information may be computed,
   which may be based on a zero input response (ZIR) of a LPC filter.
   To conclude, the error concealment 600 is well suited to usage in a switching audio
30 codec. However, the error concealment 600 can also be used in an audio codec which
   merely decodes an audio content encoded in a TCX mode or in an ACELP mode.
   6.8 Conclusion
35 It should be noted that a particularly good error concealment is achieved by the above
   mentioned concept to extrapolate a time domain excitation signal, to combine the result of

                                               62
   the extrapolation with a noise signal using a fading (for example, a cross-fading) and to
   perform an LPC synthesis on the basis of a result of a cross-fading.
   7. Audio Decoder According to Fig. 11
 5
   Fig. 11 shows a block schematic diagram of an audio decoder 1100, according to an
   embodiment of the present invention.
   It should be noted that the audio decoder 1100 can be a part of a switching audio
10 decoder. For example, the audio decoder 1100 may replace the linear-prediction-domain
   decoding path 440 in the audio decoder 400.
   The audio decoder 1100 is configured to receive an encoded audio information 1110 and
   to provide, on the basis thereof, a decoded audio information 1112. The encoded audio
15 information 1110 may, for example, correspond to the encoded audio information 410 and
   the decoded audio information 1112 may, for example, correspond to the decoded audio
   information 412.
   The audio decoder 1100 comprises a bitstream analyzer 1120, which is configured to
20 extract an encoded representation 1122 of a set of spectral coefficients and an encoded
   representation of linear-prediction coding coefficients 1124 from the encoded audio
   information 1110. However, the bitstream analyzer 1120 may optionally extract additional
   information from the encoded audio information 1110.
25 The audio decoder 1100 also comprises a spectral value decoding 1130, which is
   configured to provide a set of decoded spectral values 1132 on the basis of the encoded
   spectral coefficients 1122. Any decoding concept known for decoding spectral coefficients
   may be used.
30 The audio decoder 1100 also comprises a linear-prediction-coding coefficient to scale
   factor conversion 1140 which is configured to provide a set of scale factors 1142 on the
   basis of the encoded representation 1124 of linear-prediction-coding coefficients. For
   example, the linear-prediction-coding-coefficient to scale-factor conversion 1142 may
   perform a functionality which is described in the USAC standard. For example, the
35 encoded representation 1124 of the linear-prediction-coding coefficients may comprise a

                                                 63
   polynomial representation, which is decoded and converted into a set of scale factors by
   the linear-prediction-coding coefficient to scale-factor-conversion 1142.
   The audio decoder 1100 also comprises a scalar 1150, which is configured to apply the
 5 scale factors 1142 to the decoded spectral values 1132, to thereby obtain scaled decoded
   spectral values 1152. Moreover, the audio decoder 1100 comprises, optionally, a
   processing 1160, which may, for example, correspond to the processing 366 described
   above, wherein processed scaled decoded spectral values 1162 are obtained by the
   optional processing 1160. The audio decoder 1100 also comprises a frequency-domain
10 to-time-domain transform 1170, which is configured to receive the scaled decoded
   spectral values 1152 (which may correspond to the scaled decoded spectral values 362),
   or the processed scaled decoded spectral values 1162 (which may correspond to the
   processed scaled decoded spectral values 368) and provide, on the basis thereof, a time
   domain representation 1172, which may correspond to the time domain representation
15 372 described above. The audio decoder 1100 also comprises an optional first post
   processing 1174, and an optional second post-processing 1178, which may, for example,
   correspond, at least partly, to the optional post-processing 376 mentioned above.
   Accordingly, the audio decoder 1110 obtains (optionally) a post-processed version 1179
   of the time domain audio representation 1172.
20
   The audio decoder 1100 also comprises an error concealment block 1180 which is
   configured to receive the time domain audio representation 1172, or a post-processed
   version thereof, and the linear-prediction-coding coefficients (either in encoded form, or in
   a decoded form) and provides, on the basis thereof, an error concealment audio
25 information 1182.
   The error concealment block 1180 is configured to provide the error concealment audio
   information 1182 for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio frame
   encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation signal, and
30 therefore is similar to the error concealment 380 and to the error concealment 480, and
   also to the error concealment 500 and to the error concealment 600.
   However, the error concealment block 1180 comprises an LPC analysis 1184, which is
   substantially identical to the LPC analysis 530. However, the LPC analysis 1184 may,
35 optionally, use the LPC coefficients 1124 to facilitate the analysis (when compared to the
   LPC analysis 530). The LPC analysis 1134 provides a time domain excitation signal 1186,

                                                  64
   which is substantially identical to the time domain excitation signal 532 (and also to the
   time domain excitation signal 610). Moreover, the error concealment block 1180
   comprises an error concealment 1188, which may, for example, perform the functionality
   of blocks 540, 550, 560, 570, 580, 584 of the error concealment 500, or which may, for
 5 example, perform the functionality of blocks 640, 650, 660, 670, 680, 684 of the error
   concealment 600. However, the error concealment block 1180 slightly differs from the
   error concealment 500 and also from the error concealment 600. For example, the error
   concealment block 1180 (comprising the LPC analysis 1184) differs from the error
   concealment 500 in that the LPC coefficients (used for the LPC synthesis 580) are not
10 determined by the LPC analysis 530, but are (optionally) received from the bitstream.
   Moreover, the error concealment block 1188, comprising the LPC analysis 1184, differs
   from the error concealment 600 in that the "past excitation" 610 is obtained by the LPC
   analysis 1184, rather than being available directly.
15 The audio decoder 1100 also comprises a signal combination 1190, which is configured to
   receive the time domain audio representation 1172, or a post-processed version thereof,
   and also the error concealment audio information 1182 (naturally, for subsequent audio
   frames) and combines said signals, preferably using an overlap-and-add operation, to
   thereby obtain the decoded audio information 1112.
20
   For further details, reference is made to the above explanations.
   8. Method According to Fig. 9
25 Fig. 9 shows a flowchart of a method for providing a decoded audio information on the
   basis of an encoded audio information. The method 900 according to Fig. 9 comprises
   providing 910 an error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio
   frame following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain representation using a
   time domain excitation signal. The method 900 according to Fig. 9 is based on the same
30 considerations as the audio decoder according to Fig. 1. Moreover, it should be noted that
   the method 900 can be supplemented by any of the features and functionalities described
   herein, either individually or in combination.
35

                                                65
   9. Method According to Fig. 10
   Fig. 10 shows a flow chart of a method for providing a decoded audio information on the
   basis of an encoded audio information. The method 1000 comprises providing 1010 an
 5 error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio frame, wherein a
   time domain excitation signal obtained for (or on the basis of) one or more audio frames
   preceding a lost audio frame is modified in order to obtain the error concealment audio
   information.
10 The method 1000 according to Fig. 10 is based on the same considerations as the above
   mentioned audio decoder according to Fig. 2.
   Moreover, it should be noted that the method according to Fig. 10 can be supplemented
   by any of the features and functionalities described herein, either individually or in
15 combination.
   10. Additional Remarks
   In the above described embodiments, multiple frame loss can be handled in different
20 ways. For example, if two or more frames are lost, the periodic part of the time domain
   excitation signal for the second lost frame can be derived from (or be equal to) a copy of
   the tonal part of the time domain excitation signal associated with the first lost frame.
   Alternatively, the time domain excitation signal for the second lost frame can be based on
   an LPC analysis of the synthesis signal of the previous lost frame. For example in a codec
25 the LPC may be changing every lost frame, then it makes sense to redo the analysis for
   every lost frame.
   11. Implementation Alternatives
30 Although some aspects have been described in the context of an apparatus, it is clear that
   these aspects also represent a description of the corresponding method, where a block or
   device corresponds to a method step or a feature of a method step. Analogously, aspects
   described in the context of a method step also represent a description of a corresponding
   block or item or feature of a corresponding apparatus. Some or all of the method steps
35 may be executed by (or using) a hardware apparatus, like for example, a microprocessor,

                                             66
   a programmable computer or an electronic circuit. In some embodiments, some one or
   more of the most important method steps may be executed by such an apparatus.
   Depending on certain implementation requirements, embodiments of the invention can be
 5 implemented in hardware or in software. The implementation can be performed using a
   digital storage medium, for example a floppy disk, a DVD, a Blu-Ray, a CD, a ROM, a
   PROM, an EPROM, an EEPROM or a FLASH memory, having electronically readable
   control signals stored thereon, which cooperate (or are capable of cooperating) with a
   programmable computer system such that the respective method is performed. Therefore,
10 the digital storage medium may be computer readable.
   Some embodiments        according to the invention comprise a data carrier having
   electronically readable control signals, which are capable of cooperating with a
   programmable computer system, such that one of the methods described herein is
15 performed.
   Generally, embodiments of the present invention can be implemented as a computer
   program product with a program code, the program code being operative for performing
   one of the methods when the computer program product runs on a computer. The
20 program code may for example be stored on a machine readable carrier.
   Other embodiments comprise the computer program for performing one of the methods
   described herein, stored on a machine readable carrier.
25 In other words, an embodiment of the inventive method is, therefore, a computer program
   having a program code for performing one of the methods described herein, when the
   computer program runs on a computer.
   A further embodiment of the inventive methods is, therefore, a data carrier (or a digital
30 storage medium, or a computer-readable medium) comprising, recorded thereon, the
   computer program for performing one of the methods described herein. The data carrier,
   the digital storage medium or the recorded medium are typically tangible and/or non
   transitionary.
35 A further embodiment of the inventive method is, therefore, a data stream or a sequence
   of signals representing the computer program for performing one of the methods

                                                67
   described herein. The data stream or the sequence of signals may for example be
   configured to be transferred via a data communication connection, for example via the
   Internet.
 5 A further embodiment comprises a processing means, for example a computer, or a
   programmable logic device, configured to or adapted to perform one of the methods
   described herein.
   A further embodiment comprises a computer having installed thereon the computer
10 program for performing one of the methods described herein.
   A further embodiment according to the invention comprises an apparatus or a system
   configured to transfer (for example, electronically or optically) a computer program for
   performing one of the methods described herein to a receiver. The receiver may, for
15 example, be a computer, a mobile device, a memory device or the like. The apparatus or
   system may, for example, comprise a file server for transferring the computer program to
   the receiver .
   In some embodiments, a programmable logic device (for example a field programmable
20 gate array) may be used to perform some or all of the functionalities of the methods
   described herein. In some embodiments, a field programmable gate array may cooperate
   with a microprocessor in order to perform one of the methods described herein. Generally,
   the methods are preferably performed by any hardware apparatus.
25 The apparatus described herein may be implemented using a hardware apparatus, or
   using a computer, or using a combination of a hardware apparatus and a computer.
   The methods described herein may be performed using a hardware apparatus, or using a
   computer, or using a combination of a hardware apparatus and a computer.
30
   The above described embodiments are merely illustrative for the principles of the present
   invention. It is understood that modifications and variations of the arrangements and the
   details described herein will be apparent to others skilled in the art. It is the intent,
   therefore, to be limited only by the scope of the impending patent claims and not by the
35 specific details presented by way of description and explanation of the embodiments
   herein.

                                                  68
   12. Conclusions
   To conclude, while some concealment for transform domain codecs has been described
   in the field, embodiments according to the invention outperform conventional codecs (or
 5 decoders). Embodiments according to the invention use a change of domain for
   concealment (frequency domain to time or excitation domain). Accordingly, embodiments
   according to the invention create a high quality speech concealment for transform domain
   decoders.
10 The transform coding mode is similar to the one in USAC (confer, for example, reference
   [3]). It uses the modified discrete cosine transform (MDCT) as a transform and the
   spectral noise shaping is achieved by applying the weighted LPC spectral envelope in the
   frequency domain (also known as FDNS "frequency domain noise shaping"). Worded
   differently, embodiments according to the invention can be used in an audio decoder,
15 which uses the decoding concepts described in the USAC standard. However, the error
   concealment concept disclosed herein can also be used in an audio decoder which his
   "AAC" like or in any AAC family codec (or decoder).
   The concept according to the present invention applies to a switched codec such as
20 USAC as well as to a pure frequency domain codec. In both cases, the concealment is
   performed in the time domain or in the excitation domain.
   In the following, some advantages and features of the time domain concealment (or of the
   excitation domain concealment) will be described.
25
   Conventional TCX concealment, as described, for example, taking reference to Figs. 7
   and 8, also called noise substitution, is not well suited for speech-like signals or even tonal
   signals. Embodiments according to the invention create a new concealment for a
   transform domain codec that is applied in the time domain (or excitation domain of a
30 linear-prediction-coding decoder). It is similar to an ACELP-like concealment and
   increases the concealment quality. It has been found that the pitch information is
   advantageous (or even required, in some cases) for an ACELP-like concealment. Thus,
   embodiments according to the present invention are configured to find reliable pitch
   values for the previous frame coded in the frequency domain.
35

                                                  69
   Different parts and details have been explained above, for example based on the
   embodiments according to Figs. 5 and 6.
   To conclude, embodiments according to the invention create an error concealment which
 5 outperforms the conventional solutions.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
   word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
10 sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence
   or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
   does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
15 knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                               70
   Bibliography:
   [1] 3GPP, "Audio codec processing functions; Extended Adaptive Multi-Rate - Wideband
   (AMR-WB+) codec; Transcoding functions," 2009, 3GPP TS 26.290.
 5
   [2] "MDCT-BASED CODER FOR HIGHLY ADAPTIVE SPEECH AND AUDIO CODING";
   Guillaume Fuchs & al.; EUSIPCO 2009.
   [3] ISOIECDIS_23003-3_(E); Information technology - MPEG audio technologies - Part
10 3: Unified speech and audio coding.
   [4] 3GPP, "General Audio Codec audio processing functions; Enhanced aacPlus general
   audio codec; Additional decoder tools," 2009, 3GPP TS 26.402.
15 [5] "Audio decoder and coding error compensating method", 2000, EP 1207519 B1
   [6] "Apparatus and method for improved concealment of the adaptive codebook in
   ACELP-like     concealment    employing     improved  pitch   lag  estimation", 2014,
   PCT/EP2014/062589
20
   [7] "Apparatus and method for improved concealment of the adaptive codebook in
   ACELP-like     concealment   employing     improved  pulse  resynchronization", 2014,
   PCT/EP2014/062578

                                            71
                                          Claims
   1. An audio decoder for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an
 5    encoded audio information, the audio decoder comprising:
      an   error concealment configured to       provide an    error concealment audio
      information for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio frame
      encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation
10    signal;
      wherein the error concealment is configured to modify a time domain excitation
      signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
      frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information;
15
      wherein the error concealment is configured to modify the time domain excitation
      signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
      frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby reduce a periodic component of
      the error concealment audio information over time;
20
      wherein the error concealment is configured to gradually reduce a gain applied to
      scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio
      frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof;
25    wherein the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used to gradually
      reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the
      basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or
      more copies thereof, in dependence on a length of a pitch period of the time
      domain excitation signal , such that a time domain excitation signal input into an
30    LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a shorter length of the pitch
      period when compared to signals having a larger length of the pitch period.
   2. An audio decoder for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an
      encoded audio information, the audio decoder comprising:
35
                                                                    9697281 1 (GHMatters) P102970.AU.3

                                         72
   an   error concealment configured to        provide an   error concealment audio
   information for concealing a loss of an audio frame following an audio frame
   encoded in a frequency domain representation using a time domain excitation
   signal;
 5
   wherein the error concealment is configured to modify a time domain excitation
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
   frame, in order to obtain the error concealment audio information;
10 wherein the error concealment is configured to modify the time domain excitation
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio
   frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby reduce a periodic component of
   the error concealment audio information over time, or
15  wherein the error concealment is configured to scale the time domain excitation
   signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding the lost audio
   frame, or one or more copies thereof, to thereby modify the time domain excitation
   signal;
20 wherein the error concealment is configured to adjust the speed used to gradually
   reduce a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the
   basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or
   more copies thereof, in dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a pitch
   prediction,
25
   such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into
   an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a larger pitch change per
   time unit when compared to signals having a smaller pitch change per time unit,
   and/or
30
   such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into
   an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals for which a pitch prediction fails
   when compared to signals for which the pitch prediction succeeds.
35
                                                                 9697281 1 (GHMatters) P102970.AU.3

                                            73
   3. A method for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded
      audio information, the method comprising:
      providing an error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio
 5    frame following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain representation
      using a time domain excitation signal
      wherein a time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
      audio frames preceding a lost audio frame is modified, in order to obtain the error
10    concealment audio information;
      wherein the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
      audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, is
      modified to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio
15    information over time;
      wherein a gain applied to scale the time domain excitation signal obtained on the
      basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or
      more copies thereof, is gradually reduced;
20
      wherein the speed used to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time
      domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames
      preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, is adjusted in
      dependence on a length of a pitch period of the time domain excitation signal, such
25    that a time domain excitation signal input into an LPC synthesis is faded out faster
      for signals having a shorter length of the pitch period when compared to signals
      having a larger length of the pitch period.
   4. A method for providing a decoded audio information on the basis of an encoded
30    audio information, the method comprising:
      providing an error concealment audio information for concealing a loss of an audio
      frame following an audio frame encoded in a frequency domain representation
      using a time domain excitation signal;
35
                                                                   9697281 1 (GHMatters) P102970.AU.3

                                          74
      wherein the method comprises modifying a time domain excitation signal obtained
      on the basis of one or more audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, in order to
      obtain the error concealment audio information,
 5    wherein the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
      audio frames preceding a lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, is
      modified to thereby reduce a periodic component of the error concealment audio
      information over time, or
10    wherein the time domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more
      audio frames preceding the lost audio frame, or one or more copies thereof, is
      scaled to thereby modify the time domain excitation signal;
      wherein the speed used to gradually reduce a gain applied to scale the time
15    domain excitation signal obtained on the basis of one or more audio frames
      preceding a lost audio frame, or the one or more copies thereof, is adjusted in
      dependence on a result of a pitch analysis or a pitch prediction,
      such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into
20    an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals having a larger pitch change per
      time unit when compared to signals having a smaller pitch change per time unit,
      and/or
      such that a deterministic component of a time domain excitation signal input into
25    an LPC synthesis is faded out faster for signals for which a pitch prediction fails
      when compared to signals for which the pitch prediction succeeds.
   5. A computer program for performing the method according to any one of claims 3 to
      4 when the computer program runs on a computer.
                                                                     9697281 1 (GHMatters) P102970.AU.3

                                                    <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                    <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                    <U+275E>             <U+271D>
                                                         <U+275B>        <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                         <U+2721>             <U+270C>                                            <U+2711>
                                                    <U+275E>                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                    <U+2702>
                                                    <U+275E>             <U+2720><U+261E>                                            <U+270E>
                                                    <U+260E>             <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                    <U+2704>             <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                    <U+2702>
                                                    <U+275E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+2711>                                       <U+271D>                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+2712>                                       <U+2702>                          <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                               <U+270E>                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261E><U+261B>                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>                          <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>                          <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>                          <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                       <U+2711>                                                                                                   <U+2704>                          <U+260E><U+2706>
                                       <U+2711>                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                   <U+270E>                                                                                                       <U+260E><U+2720>                         <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>                               <U+2721>
              <U+270F>
              <U+270F>
              <U+270E>                                                                           <U+270C>                             <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                     <U+271D>                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                     <U+2702>                                       <U+2721>                            <U+2721>
                                           <U+271F>                                                                                 <U+261E>                       <U+271D>
                                                             <U+271E>                            <U+261B><U+261E>                                                         <U+271E><U+2706>
                                           <U+271E>                 <U+271D><U+2706>                           <U+2721>                             <U+260E>
                                           <U+271D><U+2706>                <U+2666>                                                          <U+275E>                            <U+2666>
                           <U+270F>                                                         <U+2702>                                                                                         <U+270F>
                                           <U+275E>                 <U+2666>                       <U+2704>                                  <U+2702>                            <U+271D>
                               <U+2711>           <U+260E>                 <U+2702>                       <U+271D>                                                               <U+260E><U+2706>                            <U+2712>   <U+2717>
                           <U+270E>               <U+2704>                 <U+2704>                       <U+260E>                                  <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>                               <U+270C>                    <U+270E>
                                           <U+2702>                 <U+260E><U+2720>                      <U+2704>                                                                    <U+2721>
                                           <U+275E>                 <U+2663>                       <U+2720>                                  <U+271E>                            <U+2706><U+270C>                                <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                     <U+260E><U+2720>                                 <U+271D><U+2706>                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>                            <U+274B>
                                                                                     <U+2720>                                  <U+2666>                            <U+2702>
                                                                                     <U+2702>                                       <U+275B>
                  <U+2720>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+275E>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+275E>
                  <U+260E><U+2706>
                  <U+275E>
                       <U+275B>
                       <U+2721>
                                                                           <U+275E>                           <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                           <U+275E>                                <U+2721>                    <U+2714>
                                                    <U+260E><U+2706>                     <U+260E>                                <U+261E>                    <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>        <U+2704>                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                    <U+275E>                      <U+271D>                           <U+260E>                         <U+260E><U+2706>                           <U+2666>
                                                         <U+275B>        <U+260E><U+2706>       <U+2702>                           <U+275E>                              <U+270C>                       <U+2666>
                                                         <U+2721>             <U+270C>                                                              <U+2721><U+270C>                      <U+260E><U+261B>
                                                                       <U+2721>   <U+2702>                                <U+2713>
                                                    <U+275E>                                                  <U+2704>                         <U+271D>                            <U+2702>
                                                    <U+2702>
                                                    <U+275E>             <U+2720><U+261E>            <U+261E>                      <U+271D>                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2666>
                                                    <U+260E>             <U+260E><U+270D>       <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D>                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                    <U+2704>             <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                            <U+275B>
                                                                                                            <U+2761>                                                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D>
                                                    <U+271D>                      <U+260E><U+2706>                          <U+2702><U+2720>                        <U+2663>                                <U+272D>
                                                    <U+2702>                                                                            <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                           <U+275E>                                <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+275B>                      <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                <U+270F>                               <U+2721><U+272D>
                                                <U+270E>
                                                <U+270E>

                                                              <U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>                                     <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                <U+275E>
                                                     <U+275B>         <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                     <U+2721>              <U+270C>                 <U+270F>
                                                <U+275E>                   <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                <U+2702>
                                                <U+275E>              <U+2720><U+261E>                         <U+2711>
                                                <U+260E>              <U+260E><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                <U+2704>              <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                <U+2702>
                                                <U+275E>
                                                                                  <U+2711>                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                <U+271D>         <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                <U+2702>         <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                     <U+261B><U+261E>        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+2702>         <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                                                <U+2704>         <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                <U+271D>         <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                <U+2704>         <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                <U+260E><U+2720>        <U+275E>
                                       <U+2711>                                                                        <U+2720>              <U+275B>
                                       <U+2712>                                                                        <U+2702>              <U+2721>
                                       <U+2711>
              <U+270F>                                                                               <U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+270F>                                                              <U+270C>                     <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                           <U+274B>
                                           <U+271F>             <U+271E>              <U+271D>                                   <U+261B>
                  <U+2711>                        <U+271E>             <U+271D><U+2706>             <U+2702>                          <U+261E>
                                           <U+271D><U+2706>                                                 <U+260E>             <U+2721>                                  <U+2716>
                                                         <U+2666>                   <U+261E><U+261B>                        <U+271D>                                       <U+2715>
                               <U+270F>           <U+275E>             <U+2666>                                    <U+275E>        <U+271E><U+2706>                          <U+270F>
                                   <U+2712>                     <U+2702>                   <U+2721>                                                                 <U+274B>
                                   <U+2711>       <U+260E>                            <U+2702>                     <U+2702>        <U+2666>                               <U+2711>
                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                           <U+2704>
                                           <U+2702>             <U+260E><U+2720>             <U+2704>
                                                                        <U+271D>                     <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>      <U+271D>
                                           <U+275E>             <U+2663>              <U+260E>                              <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                        <U+2704>                        <U+2713><U+270D>         <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+2706>             <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+2720>                     <U+275E>        <U+2706><U+270C>
                      <U+2720>                                                 <U+260E><U+2720>                    <U+260E>        <U+2704>
                      <U+2702>                                                 <U+2720>                                   <U+2718>
                      <U+275E>                                                 <U+2702>                          <U+261E>   <U+2702>
                      <U+260E>
                      <U+2704>
                      <U+2702>
                      <U+275E>
                      <U+2706><U+260E>
                      <U+275E>
                           <U+275B>
                           <U+2721>
                                                <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                <U+275E>              <U+271D>
                                                     <U+275B>         <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                     <U+2721>              <U+270C>
                                                                    <U+2721>                 <U+270F>
                                                <U+275E>                                     <U+270E>
                                                <U+2702>
                                                <U+275E>              <U+2720><U+261E>                         <U+2711>
                                                <U+260E>              <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                <U+2704>              <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                <U+271D>
                                                <U+2702>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>               <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                      <U+261B>                         <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                      <U+2721>                         <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+2706><U+260E><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                <U+260E><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>                                                              <U+275E>           <U+260E><U+2706>       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+272A>
                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                                              <U+2702>                    <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                               <U+275E>                         <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>                                                                              <U+260E>                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                    <U+261E><U+261B>                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272D>
                                                              <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                         <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                       <U+271D><U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2721>                             <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+261E>                             <U+261E>
                                                                                         <U+260E>                             <U+260E>                                   <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                         <U+275E>                             <U+275E>                                   <U+260E><U+270D>                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                         <U+2704>                             <U+2702>                                   <U+271D>                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                            <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                         <U+271D>                                                                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                         <U+2702>                             <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                              <U+2761>                        <U+260E><U+270C>
                                                                                                                            <U+2732>
                                                                                         <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>
                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
              <U+275E>                                   <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
              <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+275E>                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2704>                            <U+275B><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                  <U+2721>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
              <U+2704>                   <U+2704>               <U+2702>                            <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
              <U+2666>                   <U+2702>               <U+2663>
                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+275E>               <U+2666>                            s
                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                      <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2715>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>                                                                                                                    <U+274B>
                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                              <U+2712>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713><U+261B>                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+275B><U+261B>                                                                                                                                                <U+260E><U+270C>                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>                          <U+271E>                                                                                         <U+260E><U+270C>                           <U+2704>                                                                       <U+260E><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>                                                                <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                         <U+271D><U+2706>                                                                              <U+2706><U+270C>                                         <U+2721><U+270D>                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                      <U+270F>                                                                                       <U+261B>                          <U+275E>                                                                                    <U+2721>                                                                                                         <U+2704>                                                   <U+261B>                <U+2721>                            <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                          <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                         <U+260E>                                                                               <U+271D><U+2720>                                     <U+2702><U+261B>                                                                                        <U+275E>                                 <U+2721>           <U+271D>                                      <U+270C>
                          <U+2712>                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>                             <U+271D>               <U+260E><U+2706>                           <U+2702>         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                              <U+2702><U+270C>                                         <U+2721>                                                                   <U+2702><U+261B>                <U+2704>                                                                          <U+275E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706><U+260E><U+270C>             <U+2706><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>                              <U+275E>                                                                                    <U+261B>                                                                                                             <U+2721>             <U+2702>                                                                               <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>                                 <U+2666>                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>                            <U+2666>
                                                                                                          <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2704>                 <U+275E>                             <U+2663>               <U+275E>                                 <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2666>                                               <U+260E>                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                    <U+2714>                                                                                         <U+2712>
                                          <U+261B>                                         <U+275E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                      <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>                         <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                    <U+275E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>                                                        <U+2712>
                                      <U+2704>                               <U+275B><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2605>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                <U+2713>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                      <U+2721>             <U+2704>                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2733>
                                      <U+2663>                                             <U+271D>                                                             <U+2704>              <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                      <U+2666>                                                                                                           <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2702><U+272D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>               <U+2702><U+2720>                        <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>                  <U+261E>               <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702><U+2720>                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2761>         <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702><U+2720>             <U+275E>                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>                                                       <U+2666>                                                                                                                                               <U+2714><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>                    <U+2720>                                                                    <U+261E>        <U+2702><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>                    <U+2702>                                                                    <U+2721>             <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>                                                                    <U+2702><U+2720>                                                                                        <U+2702><U+2720>                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2713><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                                                     <U+270C>                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>                                                                <U+2666><U+270C>                            <U+2721>                                                           <U+2666><U+270C>            <U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>                         <U+271D>                                                               <U+2706>             <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2721>                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+275C>
                              <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                              <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275E>                                           <U+260E><U+2706>
                                  <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>                             <U+260E><U+2706>                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+275E>                                                <U+2721>                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>                             <U+275E>                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>        <U+2720><U+261E>                                                    <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>                                           <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706><U+271D>

                                                      <U+2739> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                            <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C>
                                                       <U+2738><U+272B><U+272C>
                                                                    s<U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+275E> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E>
                                                                       s<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+2706>s
                                                s<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+2706>                       <U+2666><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2666><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                  <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>                          <U+2711><U+2663><U+2666><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271A><U+2713><U+2714><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
                                   s<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                                    <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+2706>s                 <U+2738><U+2732><U+272C>
                                                                              <U+2738><U+272E><U+272C>         <U+2738><U+272E><U+272E>
                                  <U+272D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E><U+272A>
                                                     s<U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271D><U+271E><U+270C><U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+271C><U+271F><U+2706><U+2736><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+275B> <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                      <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                                    <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2737>
                                                                        <U+272B><U+2738><U+272C>
                                               s<U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271D><U+271E><U+270C><U+271F>s
                                                <U+272D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E><U+272A>               <U+272B><U+272B><U+272C>         <U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+2706><U+2720><U+271F>
                                     <U+272B><U+2730><U+2730>
                              <U+272B><U+2730><U+272C>                                                   <U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+275E><U+270D><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                    <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2720><U+271E><U+2737>
                                                     <U+272B><U+2730><U+272E>         <U+272B><U+2732><U+272C>                             <U+272B><U+2732><U+272B>
                            <U+275C><U+270D><U+271E>s<U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2710>
                            <U+2720><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+275B><U+2731><U+2706><U+271F>    <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>                       <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                        <U+272D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E><U+272A>             <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+272D><U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E><U+272A> <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>
               <U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E>                                        <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+270C><U+271D><U+2706>ss<U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C>                                       <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2723><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>
                                           <U+2605><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>                  <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                                           <U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F><U+2706>s<U+2706><U+270E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>                     <U+272B><U+2732><U+2730>
                 <U+272B><U+272F><U+272C>                       <U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+2706><U+2720><U+271F> <U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+275E><U+270D><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>    <U+272B><U+272E><U+272C>                 <U+272B><U+272E><U+2730>         <U+272B><U+272E><U+272B>
                                           <U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+271C><U+271C><U+270D><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271E>
                                           <U+272D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E><U+272A>
                                                         <U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+2706><U+2720><U+271F> <U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+275E><U+270D><U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                            <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>
                                                            <U+271D><U+270C><U+2706><U+271C><U+271C><U+270D><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+270E><U+271E>
                                                                                           <U+260E><U+271F><U+270C><U+271D><U+2706>ss<U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                             <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                        <U+272B><U+2730><U+272B>       <U+272B><U+2730><U+2733>
                   <U+274B> <U+2701> <U+2702>                             <U+274B> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                <U+274B> <U+2701>         <U+274B> <U+2701>
                 <U+2702><U+2704>         <U+2702><U+2735>

                                                <U+273A>   <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                     <U+2738><U+2738><U+2730>        <U+2738><U+2738><U+272E>
                      <U+271C><U+271F><U+2706><U+2736><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+275B><U+2732>
                       <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+2732>                <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>
                    <U+271E><U+270C><U+2732><U+271E><U+270D><U+2710><U+2706><U+2732><U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>         <U+260E><U+270C>s<U+271E><U+2732><U+260E><U+271F><U+270C><U+271D><U+2706>ss<U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                      <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+270E>s<U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710>
                                                <U+2738><U+2733><U+272C>
                                                                          <U+2738><U+2738><U+2733>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>
                                                <U+2719><U+2663><U+2663><U+2666><U+2663>
                                            <U+2718><U+2666><U+2714><U+2718><U+2719><U+2715><U+2716><U+2711><U+2719><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                        <U+2738><U+2733><U+2730>
                                              <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>
                                              <U+2720><U+275E><U+275E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721>
                                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                <U+272B><U+2739><U+272C>
                                             <U+272D><U+2706><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+260E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2737>
              <U+272B><U+2732><U+272E>         <U+272B><U+2738><U+272C>        <U+272B><U+2738><U+2730>
                                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+272A>
                                                                                s <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                                                             <U+272B><U+272F><U+2730>
                          <U+2605><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>                     <U+275D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2706><U+2702>
                        s<U+275B><U+270E><U+271E><U+2737><U+2706>s<U+270D>s          <U+260E><U+270C>s<U+271E><U+2732><U+260E><U+271F><U+270C><U+271D><U+2706>ss<U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>                <U+272D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+260E><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                                                           <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E>
                                                                             <U+2704><U+2702><U+275B><U+270D><U+2704><U+275B><U+275B><U+270E>
                                                                                            <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2732>
                                                <U+272B><U+2738><U+272B>         <U+272B><U+2738><U+272E>
                                                                                            <U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+272B><U+272E><U+272E>
                                                                      <U+272B><U+2733><U+2730>
                                                                  <U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F>
                                                <U+272B><U+2733><U+272C>               <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2714><U+2719>
                                                                  <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                <U+2719><U+2663><U+2663><U+2666><U+2663>             <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                            <U+2718><U+2666><U+2714><U+2718><U+2719><U+2715><U+2716><U+2711><U+2719><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                    <U+270C><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2734>
                                                    <U+2720><U+275E><U+275E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721>
                                                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                    <U+272D><U+2706><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F> <U+260E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2737>                          <U+274B> <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+272A>
                                                                                    <U+274B> <U+2701>     <U+274B> <U+2701>
                                                <U+274B> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2735>                              <U+2702><U+2704>       <U+2702><U+2735>

                                                                                <U+273B>                           <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                         <U+270F>                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                         <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                       s
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                         <U+270F>                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                                                   <U+270F>                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2708>
                                                                                                        <U+2726>
              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                        <U+2726>
              <U+270F>                                                             <U+2711>                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                 <U+270F>                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                            <U+2737>                                <U+2726>                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+2726>                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                     <U+2729>                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                     <U+2726>                                                          <U+2726>
                                                               <U+2704><U+2720>                        <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+2721>                         <U+2721><U+261B>                                                  <U+271E>
                                       <U+270F>                       <U+2702>                                                                                  <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                               <U+2666>                         <U+260E>
                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                         <U+2663>                                                        <U+275E>                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                                         <U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                               <U+2704><U+270C>
                                           <U+2726>
                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                               <U+2706>                              <U+2718>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                               <U+2663>                         <U+2702>                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+2712>                                                                                               <U+2711>
                              <U+2714><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2727>
                                                                        <U+2726>
                      <U+2720>       <U+271D>                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2726>
                      <U+2702><U+270C>      <U+260E><U+2706>                                                                   <U+2713><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                   <U+270C>                   <U+270F>                                           <U+2721>                                         <U+2702>
                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                      <U+2666><U+2706>                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                              <U+2663>                            <U+2712>                                  <U+271D>
                          <U+261E>   <U+260E><U+272D>                                                                   <U+2721>                                         <U+260E>                      <U+2727>
                      <U+2720><U+2721>                                                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                          <U+2721>                                                                   <U+2725>
                      <U+2663>       <U+2706><U+260E><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                      <U+2725>
                              <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>
                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
                              <U+2666>                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                                <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                                                                <U+2666>
                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                               <U+270F>                                <U+2663>
                                                                                <U+2663>
                                                   <U+2711>                                 <U+261E>
                                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                                     <U+2732>
                                                                                <U+2663>
                                                                                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2726>

                                              <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                            <U+270F>            <U+271D>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+2663>
                                                                            <U+272A>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+2720><U+261B>
                                                                                <U+2727>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                         <U+2702>                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                               <U+2708>
                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                         <U+2666><U+2706>                                <U+271E>
                                                                                         <U+2666>
                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+2663>
                                                                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                         <U+2663>
                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                <U+2605>
                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                              <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+2702>                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                              <U+271D>                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                <U+2605>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
              <U+270F>
                                                                                              <U+2725>
              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                            <U+2727>
                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                    <U+270F>                                                  <U+2711>   <U+271D>
                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                        <U+2727>
                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                <U+2726>
                                              <U+271D>                 <U+2727>
                                              <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                              <U+2704><U+270C>                   <U+270C>
                              <U+2663>
                              <U+2706>                    <U+2721><U+261B>                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                      <U+270F>       <U+2663>               <U+260E>                                          <U+2706><U+271D>
                                  <U+270C>                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                              <U+2663>
                          <U+2737>
                              <U+2666>                                                               <U+2721><U+270D>
                                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                  <U+2721>
                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                              <U+2663>                    <U+2718>
                                              <U+2702>                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                               <U+2711>           <U+275A>
                                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                              <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                   <U+270C>                                <U+2702>
                                                   <U+2721>                                                   <U+270F>
                                      <U+270F>       <U+2706><U+270C>                                    <U+2666><U+2706>
                                      <U+270E>       <U+2704>                                     <U+260E>
                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                              <U+2702>                                     <U+271D>                      <U+2727>
                                                   <U+270C>
                                          <U+2727>
                                              <U+2666>
                                                   <U+2721>
                                              <U+2663>

                                                               <U+273D> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>                                                                                                     <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C>
                                                                                                     <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+271F>
                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                       <U+260E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2737> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2761>
                                                   <U+2747><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                        <U+2747><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>                           <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                                                                       <U+2706>s<U+271E><U+270D><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+2706>
                                                         <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2738><U+272B><U+2738>      <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+270D><U+270E><U+2720><U+270E><U+271E>
                                     <U+2714>         <U+2714>
                                   <U+275C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+2706> <U+271C><U+2721><U+2720><U+270F>         <U+2721><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+271E><U+2737>                                          <U+260E><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2737>
                                                                             <U+2738><U+2738><U+272E>
                                                                                               <U+2738><U+272B><U+272B>
                                               <U+275E><U+2706><U+2710><U+261E><U+2721><U+271E><U+270D><U+260E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2761>               <U+2710>
                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D>s<U+2706>
                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                 <U+2738><U+2730><U+272C>           <U+2749>               <U+2720><U+270E><U+275E> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706>         <U+2768>         <U+270D><U+270E>         <U+271A> <U+2767><U+271F><U+2720><U+2732><U+2721><U+261B><U+271E><U+2761><U+261E><U+271E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                               <U+2727>               <U+2720><U+2721><U+270F><U+2706><U+275C><U+271F><U+2720><U+270D><U+271D>   <U+275B>           <U+261E><U+270E><U+2736><U+261E><U+2720><U+270E><U+271E><U+270D><U+2731><U+2706><U+275E>
                                                                                          <U+2702><U+271E><U+271E><U+275E><U+2704><U+270F><U+2701><U+2711><U+2706><U+2711>        <U+2773>
                                                                                                            <U+2724>
                                                <U+260E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706><U+271E><U+2706><U+271F>s
              <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2732>s<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D><U+271C><U+270D><U+271D>     <U+25BC>                                        s<U+261E><U+275C><U+275C><U+2720><U+270E><U+275E>s
              <U+260E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706><U+271E><U+2706><U+271F>s       <U+276F>      <U+2738><U+2730><U+2730>
                                                                 <U+2738><U+2738><U+272B>                    <U+2738><U+2738><U+2733>           <U+2738><U+272B><U+272E>
                               <U+2724>     <U+270D><U+275E><U+2761>   <U+2736>     <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706>        <U+2738><U+2738><U+2730>                 <U+2738><U+272B><U+2730>
                                               <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D>s<U+2706> <U+271C><U+270D><U+2721><U+2721><U+2732><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2715><U+2665><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
                               <U+2722>                  <U+2721><U+2706><U+261B><U+2706><U+2721>
                  <U+2738><U+272F><U+272C>                                                 <U+2738><U+272B><U+272C>
                               <U+2723>         <U+2738><U+2730><U+272B>             <U+2747><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>               <U+270D><U+275E><U+2761> <U+2737>
                               <U+2724>
                                                   <U+2738><U+2730><U+272E>
                                                     <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2727><U+272A> <U+2722><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2725><U+272E><U+2723><U+2722><U+2725><U+272E><U+2729>
                   <U+274B> <U+2701>     <U+273C>                                                 <U+274B> <U+2701>       <U+273C><U+2704>
                <U+274B> <U+2701>        <U+274B> <U+2701>
                <U+273C><U+2704>         <U+273C><U+2735>

                                                  <U+273E>   <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                            <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                               <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>
                                                        <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                        <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706>    <U+2605><U+2729><U+2723>
                                      <U+2726><U+2723><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+271A><U+2713><U+2746> <U+2721><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+271E><U+2737>           s<U+275B><U+270E><U+271E><U+2737><U+2706>s<U+270D>s
                   <U+2738><U+272B><U+2733>
                                                                     <U+2738><U+2738><U+272B>
                           <U+2738><U+2732><U+272C>       <U+2738><U+2732><U+2730>
                    <U+2731><U+2706><U+271F><U+270C>                                                                  <U+2738><U+272F><U+2730>
                  <U+25C6><U+275B><U+2736><U+261E><U+270D>s<U+271E>                    <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+2721><U+2720><U+260E><U+2732><U+2720><U+275E><U+275E>                   <U+2732>   <U+2736>
                <U+271C><U+271F><U+2706><U+2736><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+275B> <U+2761><U+2773><U+2707>          <U+2761><U+2707>      s<U+275B><U+270E><U+271E><U+2737><U+2706>s<U+270D>s <U+2761>         <U+272F><U+2732><U+2704> <U+2731>
                <U+272B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F>s<U+2706>                     <U+272D><U+272D><U+275B><U+2729><U+2714><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                                    <U+27B6><U+272D><U+2731><U+2725><U+275B><U+272A>
                    <U+2712><U+2712><U+2722>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+2706><U+271F><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+272A>                                 <U+2738><U+2738><U+2730>
                 <U+272D><U+271F><U+2720><U+275E><U+270D><U+2761> <U+2739><U+272A>
                                                                                                <U+2738><U+272F><U+272B>
                                       <U+2738><U+2732><U+272B>                 <U+2738><U+2730><U+2733>
                                                  <U+2738><U+272E><U+272C>
                                                                                         <U+27B6><U+272D><U+2731><U+272A>
                                     <U+270F><U+275A><U+2701><U+2702>
                         <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706>
                          <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>              <U+2738><U+2732><U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2730>
                         <U+270F><U+2721><U+270C><U+275C><U+2720><U+2721>                                        <U+27B6><U+272D><U+2731><U+272A>
                          <U+270F><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                                     <U+2738><U+2732><U+2733>                         <U+272D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F> s<U+261E><U+275C><U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706><U+272A>
                         <U+271F><U+2710>s<U+2707><U+2718>   <U+2665>
              <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+270E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270C><U+271F> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+270D><U+2720><U+2721> <U+260E><U+2720><U+271D>t<U+2706><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C>ss<U+270F>
                             <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2727><U+272A> <U+2722><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2725><U+272E><U+2723><U+2722><U+2725><U+272E><U+2729>
                                                  <U+274B> <U+2701>      <U+273C><U+2735>
                   <U+274B> <U+2701>   <U+273C>
                <U+274B> <U+2701>      <U+274B> <U+2701>
                <U+273C><U+2704>       <U+273C><U+2735>

                                                                <U+2736>                  <U+2736>            <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   <U+2712>                               <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F><U+2713>
                                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                               <U+270E>                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>           <U+2714>                     <U+261B><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E><U+2720>                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                   <U+2711>                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>                    <U+2720>                                                 <U+260E><U+270C>               <U+260E>         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                           <U+275B><U+270C>               <U+2702><U+270C>                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2706><U+261B>                   <U+2706>                                                      <U+270C>                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>   <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2663>                    <U+2706><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                         <U+275B>
                                                                               <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2720><U+261E>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2663>
                                                            <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+275A>
                                                <U+2714>       <U+270E>                                                                                                             <U+2714>                                                        <U+2663>
                                                <U+2702>                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                    <U+261E>
                                                            <U+2605>
              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2727>
                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D>                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2720>
              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>                <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                        <U+2714>
                                                                                                                       <U+271F><U+2713>                                                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                            <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2732>
                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E><U+272D>                                                                             <U+274B>
                                            <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                    <U+275B>                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                    <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                            <U+27B6>
                                                <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                           <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                <U+2702>                                                                                                                         <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>         <U+2706>
                                                <U+2663><U+272D>                                     <U+2714>                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                       <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                <U+2702><U+270D>                         <U+270D>
                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                     <U+270D>                 <U+260E>                                                                                                                                       <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                     <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>   <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2663>
                                                                     <U+275C>
                                                                                       <U+260E>                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>
                                                                <U+260E><U+2706>                     <U+2702>
                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+270C>                 <U+275E>                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                     <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                <U+2706>                      <U+260E>
                                                                <U+2704>                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2718>                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                                       <U+2706><U+270C>  s
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                       <U+2663>                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+2721>             <U+2666>
                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                      <U+2702><U+2720>                                                                   <U+2721><U+272D>                 <U+275B>
                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                           <U+275B>   <U+271D>                                                                     <U+2718>   <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                 <U+2704><U+270C>                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2725>
                      <U+2666>        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                      <U+2720><U+2721>                                                                                 <U+2702><U+2720>                                     <U+275E>
                                                                                                              s
                      <U+2702>            <U+261B><U+261E>                                                                    <U+2663>                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                           <U+270C>       <U+2721>                                                             <U+2704><U+270C>                                                                           <U+2720><U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                                                 <U+2663>
                      <U+2702>        <U+2702>                                                                 <U+2706>            <U+261E>                                 <U+260E>
                               <U+2704>                                                                 <U+2663>                                              <U+2704>
                      <U+2704>
                           <U+2663>
                               <U+271D>                                                                         <U+260E><U+2720>                                     <U+2702>
                           <U+2721>   <U+260E>                                                                              <U+270D><U+272D>                                <U+275E>
                      <U+2663>        <U+2704>

                                         <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>   <U+2729><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270E> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2706> <U+275C><U+2720>s<U+270D>s
                       <U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                      <U+2739><U+272C><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2729><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270C><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+2710><U+2706><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
               <U+271C><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270C><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720> <U+2721><U+270C>ss <U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706> <U+271C><U+270C><U+2721><U+2721><U+270C><U+2762><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706> <U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2706><U+2736><U+261E><U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+275B> <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>          <U+2739><U+272F><U+272C>
                     <U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F><U+2706>s<U+2706><U+270E><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+261E>s<U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2710><U+2706> <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                               <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> s<U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721>
                                   <U+274B> <U+2701>    <U+274B>
              <U+2729><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720> <U+275E><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270E> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2706> <U+275C><U+2720>s<U+270D>s
                       <U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2706><U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+275E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                      <U+272F><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C>
              <U+2729><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270C><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+2710><U+2706><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+271C><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270C><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720> <U+2721><U+270C>ss <U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706>   <U+2762><U+2737><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E>   <U+2720>
                <U+271E><U+270D><U+2710><U+2706> <U+275E><U+270C><U+2710><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2706><U+2761><U+271D><U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> s<U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270C><U+275C><U+271E><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+2706><U+275E> <U+270C><U+270E> <U+271E><U+2737><U+2706>
                                                                      <U+272F><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C>
                <U+275C><U+2720>s<U+270D>s <U+270C><U+271C> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2706> <U+270C><U+271F> <U+2710><U+270C><U+271F><U+2706> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706>s <U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+275E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2720>
                <U+2721><U+270C>s<U+271E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2720><U+2710><U+2706> <U+270D>s <U+2710><U+270C><U+275E><U+270D><U+271C><U+270D><U+2706><U+275E> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271F><U+275E><U+2706><U+271F> <U+271E><U+270C> <U+270C><U+275C><U+271E><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E>
                   <U+271E><U+2737><U+2706> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270C><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+2710><U+2706><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261E><U+275E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C><U+270C><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>
                                  <U+274B> <U+2701>    <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2736><U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                    <U+2706>                                                   <U+270E>                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271D>                                                              <U+2706><U+260E><U+270C>                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>                                                    <U+271E><U+2706>                                            <U+261E>                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>                                                    <U+2666>                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2663><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2702>                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2704>                                          <U+2706><U+2702><U+2720>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                  <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                  <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+260E>                                           <U+2720>                                  <U+2721>                                   <U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2702><U+270C>                                                                                     <U+260E><U+2720>                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>                                     <U+2720>                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2721>                                      <U+2702>                                           <U+2702>                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+275E>                                                                                                                     <U+260E>                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2663>                                                <U+261E>                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                             <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                                       <U+2721>                              <U+270C>                                                                                                                                       <U+2666><U+2706>
                                                                  <U+271D>                                                                                  <U+2706><U+271D>                                                                                       <U+2666>                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                      <U+2605>
                                                                  <U+260E><U+2706>                              <U+2666>                          <U+260E><U+2720>                      <U+2666>                                                                                             <U+2713><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                  <U+270E>                                                    <U+270C>                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2725>
                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                  <U+2663>                          <U+2663>                                                                                                                     <U+2721>                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                  <U+270E>                                               <U+2663>                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2724>
                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+2721>                              <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+271D>                               <U+2666>                                                  <U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                  <U+260E><U+2706>                                                         <U+260E><U+2720>                      <U+2666>
                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                  <U+270E>
                      <U+2729>
                                                                       <U+270C>                          <U+260E>                                                  <U+2666>
                  <U+270E>                                               <U+2663>                               <U+2663>                          <U+2663>                       <U+2702>
              <U+270F>                                                   <U+260E>                                                                                  <U+2704>                                           <U+2711>
              <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2717>
              <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2729>
              <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2717>
                                                                                <U+2713>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                  <U+270F>
                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                           <U+271D>                               <U+2706><U+271D>                             <U+2702>               <U+2720><U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                <U+2721>                                         <U+260E><U+270D>
                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+275B>                                                         <U+2706><U+261E><U+270C>             <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+274B>
                  <U+270E>                                                                                             <U+261E>
                      <U+2729>
                  <U+270E>                                                             <U+2761>                          <U+260E>                              <U+260E><U+270C>              <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                           <U+275E>                                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                         <U+261B>                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                         <U+2721>
                  <U+270F>                                                                 <U+271D>                                                           <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+260E><U+2706>                              <U+260E><U+2720>                          <U+2666>                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                                         <U+2732>
                  <U+270E>                                                                      <U+270C>                                                      <U+2666>
                      <U+2727>
                  <U+270E>                                                                 <U+2663>                               <U+2663>                           <U+2702>                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+260E>                                                           <U+2704>                                                                    <U+270E>                                                                                             <U+270F>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                          <U+270E>
                              <U+2726>
                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+2712>                                                                                                                                             <U+270F>
                          <U+270E>                                            <U+261B>
                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>                                                                                     <U+260E><U+270C>                                     <U+2666><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                  <U+2720><U+2721>                              <U+2702>                                                                         <U+270E>                                                                                                       <U+2702><U+261B>
                  <U+270F>                                                    <U+270C>                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+271E>                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                <U+260E><U+270C>
                      <U+2712>                                           <U+2704>                                   <U+275B><U+261B>                          <U+2704>                  <U+271D><U+2706>
                  <U+270E>                                               <U+2702>                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                 <U+2666>
                  <U+270E>                                               <U+2663>                                                               <U+275E>                  <U+275E>                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D><U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      s
                                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2720><U+2721><U+270C>             <U+2706><U+270D>  <U+2732>
                                                                                             <U+2666><U+270C>                                                                     <U+2711>                                                                 <U+2706><U+270D>  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666><U+270C>
                                                              <U+270D>                              <U+271D>                                                                      <U+2711>                                                                     <U+270D>                                    <U+271D>                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                          <U+2704>               <U+2702>                                  <U+2702><U+2706>                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                        <U+2702><U+2706>                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                          <U+2702>               <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2724>
                                          <U+2663>               <U+2704>                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                        <U+2704>
                                          <U+2666>
                                  <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                         <U+2704><U+2761> <U+271F><U+271E> <U+271D><U+260E> <U+275B><U+260E>
                                      <U+2711>
                                  <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706><U+260E> <U+2761><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701>                                                 <U+275C>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>

