                                            ABSTRACT
          A cosmetic applicator is provided which has particularly suitable for use in applying eye
makeup such as eyeliner. The cosmetic applicator generally comprises a body with an ink
reservoir located inside. The ink reservoir is in fluid communication with at least one stamp
means. A surface of the stamp is pressed against skin of the user and cosmetic ink is printed on
the skin surface in the shape of the surface. The stamp means can be provided in a shape
suitable for creating a cat-eye or winged eyeliner effect.

       14                  14
        12
10                          12
     10a                      10b
         18
                         18
               Figure 3
  10              2
               Fu30 4
                        30
       14
                         26
            26
               Figure 4

                                                    I
                                      " Cosmetic Applicator"
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]     The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application
No <removed-apn> filed on 20 December 2017 and United States of America Provisional Patent
Application No 62/541,726 filed on 6 August 2017, the content of which is incorporated herein
by reference.
Technical Field
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to a cosmetic applicator. In particular, embodiments
relate to a cosmetic applicator suitable for use in applying eye make-up such as eyeliner. The
cosmetic applicator may be suitable for achieving a cat eye or winged eyeliner effect.
Background
[0003]     Winged eyeliner, also referred to as a 'cat eye', is a classic and popular beauty trend. A
traditional method of application typically involves applying a thin line of eyeliner from an inner
corner of the eye, extending and increasing the thickness of the line towards an outside corner of
the eye. From the outside corner of the eye, the line is continued in an upwards flick to create
the winged effect.
[0004]     Despite the popularity of winged eyeliner, it is generally acknowledged that it is
difficult to consistently achieve a clean and uniform application of eyeliner cosmetic in the
desired shape. This difficulty is experienced regardless of the type of liner cosmetic used,
whether it be pencil, liquid or gel form. Some who desire to achieve the winged eyeliner effect
may never achieve the level of skill and expertise required to satisfactorily create the look using
traditional methods of application, despite having a steady hand and/or patience to practice. If a
person does not have sufficient skill to achieve the winged eyeliner effect, attempts at creating
the effect can be less than optimal. For example, if the flick at the outer end of the eye is too
short, it can make the eye look smaller and if the wing isn't sufficiently sharp in shape, the effect
can simply look messy.

                                                    2
[0005]    Various efforts have been made to simplify the process of creating the winged eyeliner
effect and assist in creating a sharp and well-defined wing shape. Some methods of application
teach the use of a mini-strip of tape, applied at the outer corner of the eye and angled towards the
brows. Eyeliner can then be applied using the edge of the tape for guidance, with the tape
preventing application of eyeliner on areas of skin under the tape.
[0006]    It is also known to provide a stamp configured in the shape of the desired wing or flick.
The stamp can be dipped in or otherwise coated with a cosmetic ink and then pressed against
skin at the desired location to make an imprint of the stamp and thereby create the winged effect.
However, such stamp devices can often result in uneven, imprecise or inadequate application of
the cosmetic ink. The user of the stamp must then manually fill in areas that have not been
adequately inked and/or manually draw in clearer lines in order to achieve the desired winged
effect. This re-introduces the skill requirement for application that many cannot achieve or can
only achieve after a significant amount of practice.
[0007]    Some manual stamps also require a user to attempt to create the winged effect using a
single stamp shape that must be utilised on both eyes. Again, the user must rely on their own
artistic skill and ability to adapt the stamp to both eyes.
[0008]    The present disclosure seeks to resolve or at least ameliorate the aforementioned
difficulties.
[0009]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.
[0010]            Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.

                                                    3
Summary
[0011]    Some embodiments relate to a cosmetic applicator comprising a body containing an ink
reservoir arranged to hold a quantity of a cosmetic ink, the ink reservoir in fluid communication
with a stamp means, the stamp means having a shape, whereby upon pressing a surface of the
stamp means onto a skin surface, the stamp means prints cosmetic ink in the shape onto the skin
surface.
[0012]    The shape of the surface of the stamp means may be varied in configuration and/or size
to create a desired imprint upon the skin.
[0013]    The surface of the stamp means is preferably provided in a shape suitable for creating a
winged eyeliner or cat-eye effect on the skin surface. The surface of the stamp means may thus
be provided in a winged shape, having a shape approximating an asymmetrical arrowhead or
delta with a substantially concave base.
[0014]    In one embodiment, the cosmetic applicator has a stamp means at one end of the body
and a pen tip at an opposing end of the body. Both stamp means and pen tip may be in fluid
communication with the ink reservoir. A pair of cosmetic applicators may be provided. A first
cosmetic applicator may have a stamp means adapted for application on one eye of a user. A
second cosmetic applicator may have a stamp means shaped as a mirror image of the stamp
means of the first cosmetic applicator.
[0015]    In another embodiment, the cosmetic applicator has a stamp means at both ends of the
body. The stamp means at respective ends may be substantially mirror images of each other.
[0016]    The described cosmetic applicator advantageously enables reproducible and precise
application of a desired shape onto the surface of the users skin. The described cosmetic
applicator provides means by which a user may create a winged or cat-eye eyeliner shape that is
substantially identical for each eye. The described applicator enables such application without
requiring the user to have significant artistic ability or necessitating considerable amounts of
application practice.

                                                    4
Brief Description of Drawings
[0017]    Embodiments are described in further detail below, by way of example, with reference
to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0018]    Figure 1 is a front view of a pair of cosmetic applicators in accordance with one
embodiment;
[0019]    Figure 2 is a top view of the pair of cosmetic applicators of Figure 1 with a lid at an end
thereof;
[0020]    Figure 3 is a front view of the pair of cosmetic applicators of Figure 1 with lids at each
end removed;
[0021]    Figure 4 is a top view of stamp means in a winged configuration of the pair of cosmetic
applicators of Figures 1 to 3;
[0022]    Figure 5 is a front view of a second embodiment of the cosmetic applicator, with lids on
and removed;
[0023]    Figure 6 is an exploded view of the cosmetic applicator of Figures 5a and 5b;
[0024]    Figure 7 is a top view of each end of the cosmetic applicator of Figures 5a and 5b,
showing winged stamps suitable for left and right eye; and
[0025]    Figure 8 is a side view of the winged stamps of Figure 7.
Description of Embodiments
[0026]    Referring initially to Figures 1 to 4, there is shown a cosmetic applicator 10 which can
be used to apply a cosmetic such as eyeliner. The cosmetic applicator 10 will be described
primarily in the context of creating a winged eyeliner or cat-eye effect. However, it should be
understood that the cosmetic applicator 10 may have applicability in creating other cosmetic
effects.

                                                 5
[0027]    The cosmetic applicator 10 generally comprises a body 12 with a stamp means 14 at a
first end 16 and a pen tip 18 extending from a second end 20. The body 12 generally comprises
an elongate hollow body, such as a cylinder. The cylinder may have a diameter of a size which
enables a user to comfortably grip the cosmetic applicator 10 in one hand. The body 12 may be
provided in other configurations as required.
[0028]    Each of the stamp means 14 and pen tip 18 are in fluid communication with an ink
reservoir 22, located inside the body 12. The ink reservoir 22 may extend substantially the
length of the body 12 between first end 16 and second end 20. In one embodiment, the ink
reservoir 22 comprises a body of packed or compressed fibre, such as a compressed cotton, felt
or other similar material. This material may be soaked in to hold a quantity of cosmetic ink. The
cosmetic ink can be any ink suitable for application to skin of the user, such as liquid or gel
eyeliner fluid. The stamp means 14 and/or pen tip 18 may be comprised of the same material as
the ink reservoir 22. The ink may wick or otherwise flow from the ink reservoir 22 to the stamp
means 14 and pen tip 18 and be uniformly distributed therethrough. Alternatively, the ink
reservoir 22 may comprise a chamber that may be filled with a quantity of cosmetic ink.
[0029]    The stamp means 14 may have a surface 13 provided in a shape suitable to create a
'flick' component of the winged eyeliner effect when the surface 13 of the stamp means 14 is
applied to and pressed onto skin of the user adjacent each eye, as will be described further below.
In the embodiment shown in the Figures, the stamp means 14 has a winged configuration, with
the surface 13 having a shape approximating an asymmetrical arrowhead or delta with a concave
base 24. An outline of the surface 13 of the stamp means 14 may have a substantially convex
side 26 and a substantially concave side 28. The convex side 26 and concave side 28 may extend
from the concave base 24, tapering inwardly and converging at a tip 30.
[0030]    The dimensions and relative angles of the sides 26, 28 and concave base 24 of the
surface 13 of the stamp means 14 can be varied as required to produce a particular desired
winged effect. For example, if a user requires a minimal winged effect, they may use a cosmetic
applicator 10 with a stamp means 14 in which the length of the convex and concave sides 26, 28
from concave base 24 to tip 30, are for example, about 8mm or less. If a user requires a more
dramatic winged effect, they may use a cosmetic applicator 10 with a stamp means in which the
length of the convex and concave sides are relatively larger, for example, 12mm or greater.
Width of the concave base 24 may also be varied, for example made wider, if a thicker or more
dramatic winged effect is desired. If a more subtle winged effect is desired, the width of the

                                                     6
concave base 24 may be decreased. Similarly, the overall configuration or shape of the stamp
means 14 can be varied as required to achieve multiple make up looks.
[0031]    The stamp means 14 may be detachable, allowing for a user to remove one version or
configuration of the stamp means 14 and replace it with another to achieve a particular effect as
required.
[0032]    In the embodiment shown in Figures Ito 4, a pair of cosmetic applicators 10 is shown.
The first of the cosmetic applicators 10a has a stamp means 14 suitable for application on a left
eye of the user. A second of the cosmetic applicators lOb of the pair has a stamp means 14
which is a mirror image of the stamp means 14 on the first cosmetic applicator 10b. The stamp
means 14 on the second cosmetic applicator 1Ob is suitable for application on a right eye of the
user. Each of the first and second cosmetic applicators 10a and 10b are appropriately labelled or
marked (not shown) to easily indicate to the user which stamp means 14 is intended for use on
the left or right eye. It is preferred that each of the applicators 1Oa, 1Ob are marked or labelled
on or adjacent the first end 16.
[0033]    The pen tip 18 comprises a tapered or pointed portion of compacted cotton, textile, felt
or similar material. The pen tip 18 has a configuration suitable for drawing lines, ideally fine
lines, of cosmetic ink or eyeliner. It may be desirable to provide the pen tip 18 with a fine point
to enable the user to apply fine lines of the cosmetic ink or eyeliner. The pen tip 18 may be
useful to apply a line of eyeliner from an inner corner of the eye towards an outside corner of the
eye. The pen tip 18 can be used to complete the winged look following application of the stamp
means 14 shape. For example, the user can use the pen tip 18 to fill in or join the line of eyeliner
to a winged imprint created by application of the stamp means 14.
[0034]    The cosmetic applicator 10 may be provided with a pair of lids 32 at the first and second
ends 16, 20. The lids 32 encloses both the stamp means 14 and pen tip 18 to prevent air from
drying ink out.
[0035]    In use, the user desiring to create the winged eyeliner effect removes the lid 32 from
over the stamp means 14. The stamp means 14 corresponding to the left eye may be placed at or
adjacent to the outside corner of the users eye, such that the concave base 24 of the stamp means
14 at least partially surrounds the outside corner of the eye. The stamp means 14 may be
positioned at about a 45 degree angle to the outside corner of the eye and to an outer end of the

                                                   7
lash line. This angle may be varied as required by the user in order to achieve their desired
cosmetic effect. Once appropriately positioned, the user may press the stamp means 14 onto the
skin, thereby imprinting cosmetic ink in the shape of the stamp means 14, corresponding to the
surface 13. Following application of the stamp means 14, the user can complete their desired
winged look by lining the lash line of the eye to join the imprint of the stamp means 14. The
process is repeated on the right eye using the stamp means 14 configured for the right eye. The
pen tip 18 can be used to finish off, modify or enhance the winged effect created by the stamp
means 14 as required by the user.
[0036]     Advantageously, the cosmetic applicator 10 enables a person desiring a winged eyeliner
effect to reproducibly achieve an accurate and precise winged shape with a uniform amount of
cosmetic ink. As the stamp means 14 has uniform distribution of cosmetic ink throughout and
particularly substantially across the entire surface 13, the shape is printed on the skin of the user
evenly. Use of the cosmetic applicator 10 thus enables the user to reproducibly create a sharp and
even winged shape that is substantially identical for each eye.
[0037]     Referring now to Figures 5 to 8, there is shown a further embodiment of the cosmetic
applicator 10. In this embodiment, the cosmetic applicator 10 has a first stamp means 14a
located at the first end 16 of the body 12, and a second stamp means 14b located at the second
end 20. Each of the first and second stamp means 14a, 14b have a shape generally the same as
described above in relation to the first embodiment. The first stamp means 14a has a
configuration adapted for applying a winged shape imprint to the left eye of the user and the
second stamp means 14b has a configuration adapted for the right eye. Appropriate labelling
located at or adjacent the first end 16 and second end 20 of the body 12 can indicate to the user
which stamp means 14 is intended for which eye.
[0038]     Each of the stamp means 14 is again in fluid communication with an ink reservoir 22,
located inside the body 12 of the cosmetic applicator 10. As is shown in Figure 6, though also
applicable to the first described embodiment, a wick 34 extends from each stamp means 14. The
wick 34, which may be comprised of the same or similar material as the stamp means 14 and/or
the ink reservoir 22, extends into the body 12 and connects with the ink reservoir 22 to provide
fluid communication of ink between the ink reservoir 22 and stamp means 14, or in the case of
the first embodiment, the stamp means 14 and pen tip 18. The wick 34 may be solid or may
comprise a hollow conduit having an inner diameter of a size sufficient to enable capillary flow
of ink from the ink reservoir 22 to the stamp means 14.

                                                   8
[0039]   In use, the user desiring to create the winged eyeliner effect applies the first and second
stamp means 14a, 14b to the left and right eyes respectively, substantially as described above.
The user can complete the desired winged look by lining the lash line, finishing off, modifying
or enhancing the winged effect created by the stamp means 14 using a separate eyeliner pen (not
shown) that dispenses the same or similar cosmetic ink as the cosmetic applicator 10.
[0040]   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing from the
broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                  9
CLAIMS:
1.       A cosmetic applicator comprising a body containing an ink reservoir arranged to hold a
quantity of cosmetic ink, the ink reservoir in fluid communication with a stamp means, the stamp
means having a shape, whereby upon pressing a surface of the stamp means onto a skin surface,
the stamp means imprints cosmetic ink in the shape onto the skin surface.
2.       The cosmetic applicator according to claim 1, wherein the stamp means is located at one
and of the body and a pen tip is located at an opposite end of the body, the stamp means and pen
tip being in fluid communication with the ink reservoir.
3.       The cosmetic applicator according to claim 1, wherein a first stamp means is located at
one end of the body and a second stamp means is located at an opposite end of the body.
4.       The cosmetic applicator according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
stamp means is provided in a shape suitable for creating a winged eyeliner or cat-eye effect.
5.       The cosmetic applicator according to claim 4, wherein the stamp means is provided in a
shape approximating an asymmetrical arrowhead or delta with a substantially concave base.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
