ABSTRACT
A method and an apparatus for operating a gift card network are disclosed. The system receives
registration data from first and second merchants, each having one or more points of sale, and
processes the registration data to establish membership of the merchants in a gift card network.
The system then receives card issuance data from the first merchant, the card issuance data
reflecting at least a unique serial number and a monetary value associated with a network gift
card issued by the first merchant. The network gift card is redeemable at the first merchant or at
other merchants which have established membership in the gift card network.               When a
transaction occurs in which the card issued by the first merchant is used at the second merchant,
transaction data is received from the second merchant, the transaction data indicating that at least
a portion of the monetary value of the network gift card has been redeemed at the second
merchant. In response, the system applies a credit to the first merchant, the credit being equal to
or derived from the value that has been redeemed at the second merchant.

                                                     2/3
                   23
                                                                       209
2 1
                         MSR                   2Q                           Issue/
                                                          POS            Reloading
  Gift Card                                      S                         Screen
                      5                           G2
                        Scanner
                                           Data Layer
              ~
           Store        ~        ~            Stt. oaacna~IyPi,
                                                                 219
   Internet
                                   21 Loyalt oint                         Purchasd By    Mary Smith
                                  21Conversion       Table
                                                                          Card #         9023412378
                 217
                                                                          Amount         $50.0
  Store           ~BalaceLo                                                          ot     o0
 wbieScreen                     Customer Name      Points   Valu00        Issue Date     0311/20111
                                John Smith         2,000    $20.00   -    Eprto       ae 0/121
                                                                             2p
                                           FIG. 2

           POINT-OF-SALE SYSTEM USING PREPAID/GIFT CARD NETWORK
[0001]      This application includes material which is subject to copyright protection. The
copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure,
as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office files or records, but otherwise reserves all
copyright rights whatsoever.
[0001A]        The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>. Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a divisional application of
Australian Patent Application No. 2011252814, which is a national phase application from
International Application No. PCT/US2011/037371, having an application date of 20 May 2011,
and claiming priority from United States Patent Application No. 13/106,572. The full disclosure
of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
1.   Field
[0002]      The present disclosure relates in general to the field of gift cards, and in particular to
novel systems and methods for providing networked gift cards.
2.   Description of the Related Art
[0003]      A gift card or prepaid card ("gift card") is a restricted monetary equivalent or scrip that
is issued by retailers or banks and is often, but not always, used as an alternative to a non
monetary gift. Gift cards may resemble a credit card or display a specific theme on a plastic card
the size of a credit card. The card is identified by a specific number or code, and is usually not
imprinted with or associated with an individual cardholder name. Thus, gift card usually can be
used by any bearer. Gift cards are backed by an on-line system for authorization and payment and
payment.
[0004]      U.S. Patent Application No. 20100274659 describes a loyalty system which allows a
consumer to accumulate general loyalty points from one or more merchants, then convert any
desired subset of general loyalty points to loyalty dollars (or monetary equivalent) associated with
a specific merchant. The system stores, for each consumer, the loyalty dollars by merchant within a
remotely-accessible host database, within the magnetic stripe or within a smart card database.
                                                    1

Upon conducting a purchase at a particular merchant, the consumer may utilize a consumer ID to
facilitate access to the consumer's own loyalty dollars for the particular merchant. The loyalty
dollars are then applied to the purchase transaction as a discount or rebate. The consumer may also
re-load the loyalty dollars.
[0004A]     Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to
the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended claims.
[0004B]     Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps.
SUMMARY
[0005]      The present disclosure in one embodiment provides a method and an apparatus for
operating a gift card network. The system receives registration data from first and second
merchants, each having one or more points of sale, and processes the registration data to establish
membership of the merchants in a gift card network. The system then receives card issuance data
from the first merchant, the card issuance data reflecting at least a unique serial number and a
monetary value associated with a network gift card issued by the first merchant. The network gift
card is redeemable at the first merchant or at other merchants which have established membership
in the gift card network. When a transaction occurs in which the card issued by the first merchant
is used at the second merchant, transaction data is received from the second merchant, the
transaction data indicating that at least a portion of the monetary value of the network gift card has
been redeemed at the second merchant. In response to receiving the transaction data from the
second merchant, the system applies a credit to the first merchant, the credit being equal to or
derived from the value that has been redeemed at the second merchant.
[0006]      The network gift card is advantageous to customers and merchants in that it can be
redeemed at different issuers which are members of the network. The network can be a small
association, retailers in a city, county, state or so on. The system can be implemented by a third
party without storing or managing account information of customers of the member merchants.
                                                    2

Because the network gift card is a bearer cash card, it is flexible and can be used as cash at member
merchants. The network gift card can be issued to third party, as a gift card or as a charity card.
The network gift card system does not require harmonization of loyalty programs. Each merchant
can monetize as see fits, and can add value as cash to the same card. Furthermore, various
merchants can add value to the same card.
[0007]       In a further embodiment, the disclosure provides a system and method for loading a
monetary value to a gift card using loyalty points. Scanned gift card data is received at a point-of
sale station, the scanned gift card data including at least a unique serial number associated with a
gift card. An identification of a customer purchasing or reloading the gift card is also received. The
identification of the customer is used to perform a lookup to determine a dollar value
corresponding to a number of loyalty points available in a customer's loyalty points account. The
system authorizes the point-of-sale station to load said dollar value onto said gift card, and may
then send transaction data to a loyalty points system indicating the number of points to be
subtracted from the customer's loyalty points account.
[0007A]      In one aspect there is provided a Point-Of-Sale (POS) reward system, comprising: a
POS device associated with a merchant system configured to process a sale transaction at a point
of-sale, to process a reward associated with the sale transaction, and to monetize the reward,
wherein the POS device monetizes the reward at the point-of-sale as at least one of a cash-card
issued through the POS device and a balance increase to a pre-existing cash-card, and wherein the
cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
[0007B]      In another aspect there is provided a Point-Of-Sale (POS) reward system, comprising: a
first POS device associated with a first merchant system to process a first sale transaction at a first
point-of-sale, to process a first reward associated with the first sale transaction, and to monetize the
first reward at the point of sale as at least one of a first cash-card issued through the POS device
and a balance increase to a pre-existing cash-card, wherein the first merchant system is part of a
specified network and the first cash-card is usable through other POS devices within the specified
network, and wherein the cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
[0007C]      In another aspect there is provided a method of monetizing a reward associated with a
sale transaction at a point-of-sale, the method comprising: processing a sale transaction at the point
of sale through a POS device associated with a merchant system; determining a reward associated
with the sale transaction; and monetizing the reward as one of a cash-card issued through the POS
device and a balance increase to a pre-existing cash-card, wherein the merchant system is part of a
                                                    3

specified network and the cash-card is usable through other POS devices within the specified
network, and wherein the cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]      The above and/or other aspects and advantages of the present general inventive concept
will become apparent and more readily appreciated from the following description of the
embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings of which:
[0009]      FIG 1 is a high-level block diagram illustrating the overall process flow according to an
embodiment of a network gift card network system;
[0010]      FIG 2 is a high-level block diagram illustrating gift card issuance and reloading using
loyalty points according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
[0011]       FIG 3 is a detailed block diagram illustrating a reloadable prepaid/gift card transaction
flow according to an embodiment of the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0012]      Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present general
inventive concept, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like
reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in
order to explain the present general inventive concept by referring to the figures.
[0013]      FIG 1 is a high-level diagram illustrating the process flow according to an embodiment
of a network gift card system. First, a store 101 registers in the gift card network system as a
member 103. This registration process may be driven by an interactive web site serving a secure
web interface from a member management module 105 running on a computer as part of the gift
card network management system 107, may be driven by code running on point-of sale equipment,
may be performed manually, or via other computer-driven process. In an embodiment, the
registration data generated by the registration process is transmitted via the gift card network 109
to a member management module 105, which stores the registration data in a member database
113. Once the store 101 has registered in the gift card network system, it can begin issuing network
gift cards.
[0014]      Next, an issuing store 115 issues a network gift card to a customer. The network gift
                                                   4

card preferably includes the issuing store's store logo, but also includes a gift card network logo or
other indicia indicating that it can be redeemed at other stores which are members of the gift card
network.
[0015]      The issuing store 115 receives payment from a customer when the customer purchases
the card. The transaction may be processed via a point-of-sale station programmed to upload the
card data, including a unique serial number, issuing store, monetary value of the network gift card,
and other identifying data, to the gift card network management system 107 via the gift card
network 109. A gift card management module 117 running on a computer in the gift card network
management system 107 checks the value associated with the network gift card in its gift card and
transaction database 119, reports back the value on the card to the point-of-sale station processing
the transaction, and saves the transaction in the gift card and transaction database 119. The gift
card and transaction database 119 may be integrated with the member database 113. The gift
card management module 117 then decreases the monetary value of the network gift card, as
stored in the gift card and transaction database 119, in the amount that has been redeemed by the
customer.
[0016]      For cases in which the customer purchases an item at Store A with a gift card that has
been issued by Store B, the gift card network system provides a reconciliation process by which
the system collects the redeemed value from the issuing store and issues a credit to the store
where the customer used the card. The credit may be in the form of an internal credit reflected in
the gift card network's gift card and transaction database 119, may be a credit transfer to a third
party processing company, may be an electronic funds transfer, or other form of electronic
credit.
[0017]      A customer holding a gift card may purchase additional value in any store 115 that is
a member of the gift card network. When additional value is purchased, the gift card network
system adds monetary value to the card by updating the gift card and transaction database 119. A
magnetic stripe or other form of storage on the card itself may also be updated to reflect the
increased value. When the gift card becomes expired or is reported lost, the gift card network
terminates the card in its records by updating the gift card and transaction database 119.
[0018]      FIG 2 shows a high-level process flow illustrating a point-of-sale embodiment
wherein gift cards 201 are issued and/or reloaded using loyalty points. This embodiment
provides a gift card 201 for integration with a store's loyalty point system at its point of sale. The
gift card 201, like other stored-value cards, can be "recharged" or "reloaded" by payment on the
                                                   5

presented card at the point of sale. In the point-of-sale system according to the present
embodiment, gift cards 201 can be issued, reloaded, and their balances checked. A member
store's reward/loyalty points can be converted into monetary value and the cash value can be
loaded into the gift cards by swiping a card 201 past a magnetic stripe reader (MSR) 203 or by
scanning it using a barcode scanner or other point-of-sale scanner 205 which is connected to the
system.
[0019]      The workflow for issuing a gift card in accordance with the present embodiment is as
follows. First, a cashier or the customer presents a blank gift card 201 at the point of sale for
purchasing by customer. The cashier swipes the blank gift card past the magnetic stripe reader
203 or scans a barcode (or other indicia) on the gift card. The cashier enters the customer's name
into the point-of-sale station 207. The point-of-sale station 207 displays the card's unique serial
number in a gift card issue/reloading screen 209 in the point-of-sale-station 207. The cashier
enters into the point-of-sale station 207 an initial value to be added to the gift card 201. The
point-of-sale station performs a lookup in the store's loyalty system database to determine the
number of loyalty points existing in the customer's account. The point-of-sale station 207 uses a
loyalty point conversion table 211 to convert the customer's points to a monetary value.
[0020]      If the customer indicates that they would like to use their loyalty points to cover the
value being added to the gift card, the cashier then checks a check box 213 on the issue/reloading
screen 209. The cashier presses a "Confirm" button 215 to issue the gift card, and the point-of- sale
station 207 then saves the issued card information to the gift card database 219 and updates the
store's loyalty point system to reflect the appropriate reduction in points. The customer may
thereafter use the gift card at the store where they purchased the gift card.
[0021]      The process for reloading a gift card in accordance with the loyalty points
embodiment of FIG 2 will now be described. When a customer presents a gift card 201 for
reloading at a point-of-sale station 207, the cashier swipes the card past a magnetic stripe reader
203, barcode scanner 205, or other indicia reading device. The cashier enters the customer's
name into the point-of-sale station 207. The point-of-sale station 207 displays the card number in
the gift card reloading screen 209, along with any value already associated with the card 201.
The cashier may then enter additional value to be added to the gift card 201. The point-of-sale
station uses the loyalty point conversion table 211 to convert the points to monetary value. If the
customer indicates that they would like to use their loyalty points to cover the value being added
to the gift card 201, the cashier then checks a check box 213 on the issue/reloading screen. The
                                                    6

point-of-sale station uses the loyalty point conversion table 211 to convert the customer's loyalty
points to monetary value when the customer chooses to use loyalty points. A check balance
screen 217 allows the customer or the cashier to check the balance of loyalty points available.
The cashier presses a "Confirm" button 215 to issue the gift card, and the point-of-sale station
207 then saves the reloaded card information to the gift card database 219 and updates the store's
loyalty point system to reflect the appropriate reduction in points.
[0022]       FIG 3 shows a detailed block diagram illustrating the process flow for transactions in
accordance with the first or second embodiments of the reloadable prepaid/gift card. The card
sale/activation process is as follows. The customer arrives at a point-of-sale station 301 at Store
A to purchase a gift card. A formatter module 303 running on a computer associated with the
point of sale station receives gift card purchase data from the point-of-sale station 301 via a
comm driver 307. The formatter module 303 uses the gift card purchase data to build and send a
gift card purchase message to the gift card network to activate the card and set the card initial
balance.
[0023]       The gateway kernel 309, which may be running on a gateway server associated with
the gift card network, receives the transaction message. Based on the card BIN number (PAN first
6 digits), the authorization route is established. The authorization route comprises a formatter 311
and a comm driver 312.
[0024]       Based on the authorization route, the message is sent to the gift card management server
313, and the gift card management server 313 sends a response message to the gateway. The
gateway receives the response, matches the origination transaction, and routes the message back to
the originating POS station 301.
[0025]       With continued reference to FIG 3, in an embodiment, the process flow of card usage
and authorization requests will now be described. A customer arrives at a point of sale station 301
associated with Store A to purchase products/services with a gift card. A formatter 303 running on
a computer associated with the point of sale receives purchase data from the point-of- sale station
via a comm driver 307, and builds and sends a standard authorization request message. The
gateway receives the transaction message and, based on the card BIN number (PAN first 6 digits),
the authorization route is established.
[0026]       Based on the authorization route, the message is sent to the prepaid/gift card
management server. The prepaid/gift card mgmt server 313 sends an authorize/decline response
                                                    7

message to the gateway. The gateway receives the response, matches the origination transaction
and routes the message back to the originating POS station 301.
[0027]      With continued reference to FIG 3, an example of a batch close and settlement process
in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure will now be described. The POS device must
first build a close batch record to the Host for settlement to occur. Since the settlement is
conducted differently for gift cards than for debit/credit transactions, this will be a different batch
close message to be routed to the gift card management server - independent from the settlement
process conducted by a third party credit card transaction processor 315 (e.g., First Data). The
BATCH AMOUNT field will usually consist of an unsigned value, entered without a plus (+) or
minus (-) sign. However, when the amount of returns exceeds the amount of purchases, then a
leading minus sign is necessary to indicate a negative amount. Prepaid card purchase or reload is
represented by negative amounts, and purchases with prepaid/gift cards are represented by positive
amounts.
[0028]      The gateway kernel 309 then routes then the batch close message to the gift card
management server 313, which sends the close batch response message to the gateway. The
gateway receives the response, matches the origination close transaction and routes the message
back to the originating point-of-sale station 301.
[0029]      The embodiments of the present disclosure can be written as computer programs and
can be implemented in general-use digital computers that execute the programs using a computer
readable recording medium. Examples of the computer readable recording medium include
magnetic storage media (e.g., ROM, floppy disks, hard disks, etc.), optical recording media (e.g.,
CD-ROMs, or DVDs), and storage media such as carrier waves (e.g., transmission through the
Internet).
[0030]      Although embodiments of the present general inventive concept have been shown and
described, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these
embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the general inventive concept, the
scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.
                                                   8

CLAIMS
1.  A Point-Of-Sale (POS) reward system, comprising:
       a POS device associated with a merchant system configured to process a sale transaction at
       a point-of-sale, to process a reward associated with the sale transaction, and to monetize
       the reward,
       wherein the POS device monetizes the reward at the point-of-sale as at least one of a cash
       card issued through the POS device and a balance increase to a pre-existing cash-card, and
wherein the cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
2.  The POS reward system of claim 1, wherein the sale transaction comprises at least one of a
    purchase, sale, exchange, and return of merchandise.
3.  The POS reward system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the merchant system is part of a specified
    network and the cash-card is usable through other merchant systems within the specified
    network.
4.  The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the merchant system is
    part of a specified network and the cash-card is usable through other POS devices within the
    specified network.
5.  The POS reward system of claim 4, wherein the specified network is an open network and the
    cash-card is usable with any merchant system within the specified network.
6.  The POS reward system of claim 4, wherein the specified network is a closed network and the
    cash-card is usable only with a predetermined group of merchant systems within the specified
    network.
7.  The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the monetization of the
    reward comprises:
                                                  9

       assessing a reward account through the POS device corresponding to the customer in the
       sale transaction;
       determining a value of the reward associated with the sale transaction according to
       monetization criteria;
       modifying a balance of the reward account according to the value of the reward; and
       wherein the monetization of the reward comprises monetizing up to the balance of the
       reward account according to the monetizing criteria,
       wherein, if the customer does not have a pre-existing reward account, a reward account for
       the customer is set up through the POS device.
8.  The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the reward account is
    associated with identifying information of the customer.
9.  The POS reward system of claim 8, wherein the identifying information is at least one of a
    name, a telephone number, an address, and an email address of the customer.
10. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the reward account is hosted
    within the specified network.
11. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the reward account is hosted
    within the merchant system.
12. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the monetization criteria
    resides within the specified network and the POS device assesses the monetization criteria
    when processing the reward.
13. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the monetization criteria
    resides within the merchant system and the POS device assesses the monetization criteria
                                                 10

    when processing the reward.
14. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the monetization criteria is the
    same for all merchant systems within the specified network
15. The POS reward system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the monetization criteria is
    different for at least one merchant system within the specified network
16. The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the reward account is
    managed by a third party also in charge of managing the specified network.
17. The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the customer has online
    access to the reward account.
18. The POS reward system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the cash-card is
    associated with the reward account.
19. A Point-Of-Sale (POS) reward system, comprising:
        a first POS device associated with a first merchant system to process a first sale transaction
        at a first point-of-sale, to process a first reward associated with the first sale transaction,
        and to monetize the first reward at the point of sale as at least one of a first cash-card
        issued through the POS device and a balance increase to a pre-existing cash-card,
        wherein the first merchant system is part of a specified network and the first cash-card is
        usable through other POS devices within the specified network, and
        wherein the cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
20. The POS reward system of claim 2319, further comprising:
        a second POS device associated with a second merchant system to process a second sale
        transaction at a second point-of-sale, to process a second reward associated with the second
                                                    11

        sale transaction, and to monetize the second reward at the point of sale as at least one of a
        second cash-card issued through the POS device and a balance increase to another pre
        existing cash- card,
        wherein the second merchant system is part of the specified network and the second cash
        card is usable through other POS devices within the specified network.
21. The POS reward system of claim 2420, wherein the another pre-existing cash-card is the first
     cash-card.
22. The POS reward system of claim 2420, wherein the first cash-card is used during the second
     sale transaction, and the second reward is monetized as a balance increase to the first cash
     cash.
23. The POS reward system of any one of claims 19 to 22, wherein the monetization of the first
     reward comprises: assessing a reward account through the first POS device corresponding to
     the customer in the first sale transaction;
determining a value of the first reward associated with the first sale transaction according to first
     monetization criteria;
modifying a balance of the reward account according to the value of the first reward; and wherein
     the monetization of the first reward comprises monetizing up to the balance of
the reward account according to the first monetization criteria,
wherein, if the customer does not have a pre-existing reward account, a reward account for the
     customer is set up through the first POS device.
24. The POS reward system of any one of claims 19 to 23, wherein the monetization of the
     second reward comprises:
        assessing a reward account through the second POS device corresponding to the customer
        in the second sale transaction;
        determining a value of the second reward associated with the second sale transaction
                                                 12

         according to second monetization criteria;
         modifying a balance of the reward account according to the value of the second reward;
         and
         wherein the monetization of the second reward comprises monetizing up to the balance of
         the reward account according to the second monetizing criteria,
         wherein, if the customer does not have a pre-existing reward account, a reward account for
         the customer is set up through the second POS device.
25. A method of monetizing a reward associated with a sale transaction at a point-of-sale, the
     method comprising:
         processing a sale transaction at the point of sale through a POS device associated with a
         merchant system;
         determining a reward associated with the sale transaction; and
         monetizing the reward as one of a cash-card issued through the POS device and a balance
         increase to a pre-existing cash-card,
         wherein the merchant system is part of a specified network and the cash-card is usable
         through other POS devices within the specified network, and
wherein the cash-card is issued to bearer and readily transferable.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the specified network is a closed network and the cash- card
     is usable only with a predetermined group of merchant systems within the specified network.
27. The method of claim 25 or claim 26, wherein:
the determining of the reward associated with the sale transaction comprises: assessing a reward
     account through the POS device corresponding to the customer in the sale transaction,
     determining a value of the reward associated with the sale transaction according to
     monetization criteria, and modifying a balance of the reward account according to the value of
     the reward, and
                                                  13

wherein the monetizing of the reward comprises monetizing up to the balance of the reward
    account according to the monetizing criteria,
wherein, if the customer does not have a pre-existing reward account, a reward account for the
    customer is set up through the POS device.
28. The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the monetization criteria resides within the
    specified network and the POS device assesses the monetization criteria when processing the
    reward.
29. The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the monetization criteria is the same for all
    merchant systems within the specified network.
30. The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the monetization criteria is different for at
    least one merchant system within the specified network.
                                                14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
