  Abstract
       A kinesthetic device with different seating orientations comprises a
  base unit, an actuator unit, a platform unit, and a seat unit. The base unit
  includes a base seat. The actuator unit includes an actuator module
5 disposed on the base seat. The platform unit includes a platform body
  disposed on the actuator module. The seat unit includes plural seats
  disposed at the edge of the platform body, wherein the orientations of the
  plural seats are different, so that it can have the plural seats provide with
  different kinesthesia.

   'I
      'I
         ~I-4
'I

    KINESTHETIC DEVICE WITH DIFFERENT SEATING ORIENTATIONS
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   a) Field of the Invention
 5      The present invention relates to a kinesthetic device, and more
   particularly to a kinesthetic device with different seating orientations.
   b) Description of the Prior Art
        There are usually two types of facilities in general amusement parks.
   One is used for games in reality, such as a roller coaster, which allows
10 the users to experience the speed and G-Force. Another is a virtual
   kinesthesia facility, which uses sound and visual effect with movement of
   a dynamic platform to create virtual kinesthesia.
        In general, there is a video player set in front of a dynamic
   simulation device and play dynamic movies with an audio equipment. A
15 dynamic simulation device comprises a dynamic platform with seats
   arranged on top of it, by controlling the actuator in accordance with the
   movie, the platform and the seats can be moved in multiple degrees of
   freedom such as surging, heaving, pitching and rolling, and make the
   users sitting on the platform feel like they were literally inside the movie.
20      Referring to FIG. 1, it shows a dynamic simulation device disclosed
                                          1

   in a Taiwanese Patent Publication No. M484450, including a base 11, a
   platform 12 and an actuator assembly 13 disposed between the base 11
   and the platform 12.     The actuator assembly 13 controls the position of
   the platform 12 and swings the platform 12 with respect to the base 11.
 5      Plural seats 14 which accommodate plural users are disposed on
   top of the platform 12. The orientations of the plural seats 14 are the
   same, so that the users on the seats 14 can experience the same
   kinesthesia while receiving the same audiovisual information.
        Although aforementioned dynamic simulation device can simulate
10 kinesthesia, there are still some defects in practical implementation.
        1. Limited installation location
        The plural seats have its own height, and the height for visitors'
        entrance should also be maintained. Because the plural seats are
        disposed on the platform, considering the height of the actuator
15      assembly, the ceiling where the prior art dynamic simulation device
        is installed is higher, and the installation location cannot be on the
        common floors.
        2. Unable to increase revenue
        With the same orientation of the plural seats, the users can only
20      experience the same kinesthesia and watch the same movie, and
                                         2

        from a consumer's point of view, they tend not to ride on the same
        facility more than once, thus, the facility is unable to increase
         revenue.
        3. Unreal kinesthesia
 5       In early days, the Stewart platform was a device designed to train
         pilots, and it's used to simulate the kinesthesia of a single person with
        certain audiovisual information. However, in the amusement park, to
         increase revenue, plural seats are disposed on the platform to
        accommodate more people, but due to different positions of the
10      seats, when the platform is pitched forward by the actuator, the
         users sit at the front part of the platform will experience leaning
        forward kinesthesia while descending, and the users sit at the rear
         part of the platform will experience leaning forward kinesthesia while
        ascending, thus, the kinesthesia of the users cannot always be
15       matched with the audiovisual information.
         How to improve the device to provide better kinesthesia with
   different audiovisual information in a limited space and create more
   revenue, are objectives that the relevant professionals need to strive for.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20      Accordingly, an objective of an embodiment of the present invention
                                           3

   is to provide a kinesthetic device with different seating orientations,
   comprising a base unit, an actuator unit, a platform unit, and a seat unit.
        The base unit includes a base seat.
        The actuator unit includes an actuator module disposed on the base
 5 seat.
        The platform unit includes a platform body disposed on the actuator
   module.
        The seat unit includes plural seats with different orientations
   disposed at the edge of the platform body.
10      Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
   the aforementioned platform body is circular in shape, and the plural
   seats are disposed respectively on the tangent line of the circular
   platform body.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
15 the aforementioned platform body is polygonal in shape, and the plural
   seats are disposed respectively on the sides of the polygonal platform
   body.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
   the aforementioned plural seats are adjacent to one another side by side
20 in their length direction at a certain distance.
                                          4

        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
   the aforementioned actuator module is a six-axis actuator assembly of
   the Stewart platform
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
 5 the aforementioned kinesthetic device with different seating orientations
   further comprises a position adjustment unit, which includes plural
   position adjustment modules disposed between the plural seats and the
   platform body, to adjust the positions of the plural seats respectively.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
10 the aforementioned seat unit further includes a safety component.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
   the aforementioned kinesthetic device with different seating orientations
   further comprises a control unit, which includes a control module
   connected electrically to the actuator module, and an audiovisual
15 module connected electrically to the control module.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
   the aforementioned audiovisual module is composed of plural video and
   audio playback components.
        Another technique of an embodiment of the present invention is that
20 the   aforementioned    audiovisual    module    includes   plural memory
                                        5

   components to store different audiovisual data, so that the plural video
   and audio     playback components       can play different audiovisual
   information.
        The benefits of the present invention lie in that with the different
 5 orientations of the plural seats, the users on the seats can also
   experience different kinesthesia; with the plural seats disposed at the
   outer side of the platform body, the height of the kinesthetic device can
   be reduced; with the audiovisual module providing different audiovisual
   information, the users on the plural seats can experience kinesthesia
10 with matching audiovisual information
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIG. 1 shows a schematic view, a dynamic simulation device disclosed
   in a Taiwanese Patent Publication No. M484450;
   FIG. 2 shows a schematic view, illustrating a first preferred embodiment
15 according to the present invention;
   FIG. 3 shows a schematic view, illustrating a side view of the first
   preferred embodiment;
   FIG. 4 shows a flowchart, illustrating a control unit of the first preferred
   embodiment;
20 FIG. 5 shows a schematic view, illustrating a second preferred
                                        6

   embodiment according to the present invention; and
   FIG. 6 shows a schematic view, illustrating a top view of a third preferred
   embodiment according to the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 5      The features and technical contents of this invention will be clearly
   presented with detailed descriptions and drawings of the following three
   preferred embodiments. Before proceeding with the detailed description,
   it should be noted that similar elements are labeled with the same
   reference number.
10      With reference to FIGs. 2, 3, and 4, a first preferred embodiment
   according to the present invention is depicted, comprising a base unit 31,
   an actuator unit 32, a platform unit 33, a seat unit 34, and a control unit
   36.
        The base unit 31 includes a base seat 311. Preferably, the base
15 seat 311 is a metal structure disposed and fixed on the ground, to
   support the force and weight of the actuator unit 32, and also provide
   pivotal connection to the actuator unit 32. In a practical implementation,
   the base seat 311 can be disposed on a turntable structure or a slide rail
   structure, and so should not be construed as limiting the invention.
20      The actuator unit 32 includes an actuator module 321 disposed on
                                        7

   the base seat 311. In the first preferred embodiment, a six-axis actuator
   assembly of the Stewart platform is served as the actuator module 321.
    It can simulate the kinesthesia by using its six linear actuators to change
   the deflection angle of the platform unit 33. In a practical implementation,
 5 other kinesthesia actuator can be selected to sway or move the platform
   unit 33, and so should not be construed as limiting the invention.
         The platform unit 33 includes a platform body 331 disposed on the
   actuator module 321. The platform body 331 is a steel structure fixed on
   the actuator module 321, and the actuator module 321 controls the
10 position of the platform body 331, so that the platform body 331 can
   sway with respect to the base seat 311.
         The platform body 331 is polygonal in shape, in the first preferred
   embodiment, the shape of the platform body 331 is an equilateral
   triangle. The six-axis actuator assembly of the Stewart platform, served
15 as the actuator module 321, and the platform body 331 are pivotally
   connected at the midpoint of each side of the triangle-shaped platform
   body 331, so that the actuators can work collaboratively to change the
   position and movement of the platform body 331. In a practical
   implementation, the shape of the platform body 331 can be any polygon
20 other than equilateral triangle, and so should not be construed as limiting
                                         8

   the invention.
        The seat unit 34 includes plural seats 341 disposed with different
   orientations at the edge of the platform body 331. In the first preferred
   embodiment, the shape of the platform body 331 is an equilateral
 5 triangle, and there are three seats 341 disposed respectively on top of
   each side of the platform body 331. The plural seats 341 are adjacent to
   one another side by side in their length direction at a certain distance
   and with an included angle in between. Precisely speaking, the included
   angle formed by two adjacent seats 341 will not be less than 60 degrees,
10 so that the plural seats 341 can be combined to form a shape of triangle
   or other polygons, which can increase the capacity of the device with the
   same mechanism without losing kinesthetic effect.
        The inventor wants to emphasize that because the plural seats 341
   are disposed at the edge of the platform body 331, according to the
15 principle of lever, when the actuator module 321 swings the platform
   body 331, the movement of the plural seats 341 will be more severe than
   the center of the platform body 331, and the users on the plural seats
   341 can experience more intense kinesthesia.
        Each of the plural seats 341 is disposed respectively on top of each
20 side of the steel structure of the platform body 331 and each seat 341
                                        9

   accommodates at least one user. In the first preferred embodiment, the
   width of each seat 341 is approximately the same as the side length of
   the platform body 331 and accommodates plural users.
        Each seat 341 provides a seat plate and a back plate, and the sitting
 5 direction of the users are the same as the orientations of the plural seats
   341. In the first preferred embodiment, the plural seats 341 are fixed on
   top of the equilateral triangular steel structure of the platform body 331,
   and the orientations of the plural seats 341 are opposite to the center of
   the platform body 331.
10      The control unit 36 includes a control module 361 connected
   electrically to the actuator module 321, and an audiovisual module 362
   connected electrically to the control module 361. The audiovisual
   module 362 is composed of plural video and audio playback components
   to provide image and sound respectively, and it is provided with plural
15 memory components 363 to store different audiovisual data, so that the
   plural video and audio playback components can play different
   audiovisual information.
        The inventor wants to emphasize that since the platform body 331
   of the first preferred embodiment is equilateral triangular in shape, and
20 the orientations of the plural seats 341 are opposite to the center of the
                                         10

   platform body 331, so the line of sight of the users on the plural seats
   341 are not the same. Thus, when the actuator module 321 swings the
   platform body 331, the users on different seats 341 can experience
   different kinesthesia.
 5       For example, a six-axis Stewart platform can provide kinesthetic
   effect in six degrees of freedom by pitching, yawing, rolling, surging,
   heaving, and swaying to the platform body 331, when the users on one
   of the seats 341 experience forward leaning, the users on other seats
   341 may experience backward leaning. The kinesthesia is completely
10 different.
          Therefore, the audiovisual module 362 can program an audiovisual
   data for each of the plural seats 341 and store the data in the plural
   memory components 363, so that the users on different seats 341 may
   receive different audiovisual information.
15       It is preferable to set a panoramic screen around the kinesthetic
   device and use plural video and audio playback components to project
   the image onto the panoramic screen, so the users on the plural seats
   341 can experience kinesthesia with matching audiovisual information.
    In a practical implementation, the plural video and audio playback
20 components       can   be plural   head-mounted  display devices and
                                        11

   earphones ,and so should not be construed as limiting the invention.
        FIG. 5 shows a second preferred embodiment according to present
   invention. The second preferred embodiment is generally the same as
   the first preferred embodiment, and therefore the similarities will not be
 5 described in detail herein after. The difference between the two preferred
   embodiments is that the plural seats 341 of the second preferred
   embodiment are disposed on the outer sides of the platform body 331,
   so that the total height for installing the present invention can be
   reduced.
10      The second preferred embodiment further comprises a position
   adjustment unit 35, which includes plural position adjustment modules
   351 disposed between the plural seats 341 and the platform body 331, to
   adjust the positions of the plural seats 341 respectively.
        Each position adjustment module 351 includes a vertical adjustment
15 component and a horizontal adjustment component. The vertical
   adjustment component can adjust the vertical position or the height of
   the plural seats 341, while the horizontal adjustment component can
   adjust the distance between the plural seats 341 and the center of the
   platform body 331. Preferably, a ball screw can be used as the vertical
20 adjustment component, and a linear guide can be used as the horizontal
                                         12

   adjustment component. In a practical implementation, types of the
   adjustment component should not be limited thereto.
        As the position adjustment module 351 raises the position of the
   seats 341, the users' feet will be dangled below while sitting on the plural
 5 seats 341; as the position adjustment module 351 lowers the position of
   the seats, the users can easily sit on or get up from the seats 341. When
   the position adjustment module 351 shifts the seats 341 outward, the
   users sitting on the seats 341 will experience more intense kinesthesia
   according to principle of lever.
10      The inventor wants to emphasize that the position adjustment
   module 351 does not participate in the control of kinesthesia, the
   position adjustment module 351 will stop acting after moving the seats
   341 to the right position, while the actuator module 321 is in total charge
   of the control of kinesthesia.
15      Besides, in the second preferred embodiment, the plural seats 341
   are disposed on the outer side of the platform body 331, when the
   position adjustment module 351 lowers the position of the seats 341, the
   height of the plural seats 341 can be the same as the actuator module,
   so the total height for installing the kinesthetic device can be effectively
20 reduced. Thus, the present invention can be installed directly on the
                                         13

   ground, and the users can easily sit on the seats 341 without walking
   through a ladder stage, and there is no need to modify the building to
   dispose the actuator module 321 underground.
        In addition, when the seat 341 is disposed on the outer side of the
 5 platform body 331, both the moving speed and moving distance of the
   plural seats 341 increase due to principle of lever, and the users on the
   plural seats 341 can experience more intense kinesthesia as well.
        The seat unit 34 also includes a safety component 342 disposed in
   the seat 341. Preferably, a seat belt can be used as the safety
10 component 342 to hold the user on the seat 341, guaranteeing the user
   from any physical injury while riding on the kinesthetic device. In a
   practical implementation, types of the safety component 342 should not
   be limited thereto.
        FIG. 6 shows a third preferred embodiment according to present
15 invention. The third preferred embodiment is generally the same as the
   second preferred embodiment, and therefore the similarities will not be
   described in detail herein after. The difference between the two preferred
   embodiments is that the platform body 331 is circular in shape, and the
   plural seats 341 are disposed respectively on the tangent line of the
20 platform body 331.
                                         14

        In the third preferred embodiment, the platform body 331 is a
   circular steel structure fixed on the actuator module 321, and there are
   twelve seats 341 averagely disposed on the outer side of the platform
   body 331 with their orientation opposite to the center of the platform
 5 body 331, and each seat 341 accommodates one user. In a practical
   implementation, the number and capacity of the plural seats 341 should
   not be limited thereto.
        The inventor wants to emphasize that the early Stewart platform
   was mainly used for simulating the kinesthesia of a single person, to
10 provide kinesthetic effect in six degrees of freedom. Later, the platform
   was used as an amusement facility with multiple seats disposed on it,
   but the early audio-video playback device can only provide single-screen
   image, so the seats must all face the same direction toward the screen,
   and due to the restriction of the Stewart platform mechanism, the users
15 wouldn't be able to experience the same kinesthesia while watching the
   same image.
        With advances of audio-video playback technology, the panoramic
   image is widely used in various facilities. In this invention, the plural
   seats 341 are disposed on the outer side of the platform body 331 and
20 the orientation of the plural seats 341 is opposite to the center of the
                                        15

   platform body 331, so the kinesthesia of the users can be matched with
   the 360-degree panoramic image.
        In addition, the height for installing the entire kinesthetic device can
   be effectively reduced by disposing the plural seats 341 on the outer side
 5 of the platform body 331, so that the whole device can fit in a general
   building's floor and can be directly installed without modifying the
   building structures.
        From aforementioned descriptions, it is known that the present
   invention is indeed provided with following benefits:
10      1. More intense kinesthesia
        Since the seats 341 are disposed at the edge of the platform body
        331, when the actuator module 321 swings the platform body 331,
        both the moving speed and moving distance of the plural seats 341
        increased due to the principle of lever, thus, the users on the plural
15      seats 341 can experience more intense kinesthesia.
        2. Cost saving
        Since the plural seats 341 are disposed on the outer side of the
        platform body 331, the height for installing the kinesthetic device
        can be effectively reduced, so that the kinesthetic device can be
20      installed directly on the ground or inside a general building's floor.
                                         16

   The users can easily sit on the seats 341 without walking through a
   ladder stage or modifying the building structure to dispose the
   actuator module 321 underground, thus, the installation cost can be
   saved effectively.
 5 3. Dangled feet
   According to the aforementioned description, even if the kinesthetic
   device is installed inside a building's floor, the position adjustment
   module 351 can still change the vertical position of the seats 341,
   thus, allow the users' feet to be dangled below, so there is no need
10 to modify the structure of the seat or the building to reach the same
   effect.
   4. Experience different kinesthesia
   The orientations of the plural seats 341 are opposite to the center of
   the platform body 331, so that the line of sights of the users sit on
15 the plural seats 341 are different, and the kinesthetic effects of each
   seat 341 are also different when the actuator module 321 swings
   the platform body 331.        Thus, in combination with different
   audiovisual information given by the audiovisual module 362, each
   user on the plural seats 341 can experience different kinesthesia.
20 Accordingly, the orientations of the plural seats 341 are opposite to
                                   17

   the center of the platform body 331,, so that the plural seats 341 can be
   disposed at the edge of the platform body 331, and the users the plural
   seats 341 can experience more intense kinesthesia in combination with
   different audiovisual information given by the audiovisual module 362.
 5 The plural seats 341 disposed on the outer side of the platform body 331
   can reduce the total height for installing the kinesthetic device, so the
   device can be installed inside a general building and save the installation
   cost. Therefore, the objective of the present invention can be actually
   achieved.
10       It is of course to be understood that the embodiments described
   herein is merely illustrative of the principles of the invention and that a
   wide variety of modifications thereto may be effected by persons skilled
   in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as
   set forth in the following claims.
15
                                        18

   What is claimed is:
   1. A kinesthetic device with different seating orientations, comprising:
      a base unit which includes a base seat
      an actuator unit which includes an actuator module disposed on the
 5    base seat;
      a platform unit which includes a platform body disposed on the
      actuator module; and
      a seat unit which includes plural seats disposed at the ege of the
      platform body with different orientations.
10 2. The kinesthetic device with different seating orientations as claimed
      in claim 1, wherein the platform body is circular in shape, and the
      plural seats are disposed on the tangent line of the platform body.
   3. The kinesthetic device with different seating orientations as claimed
      in claim 1, wherein the platform body is polygonal in shape, and the
15    plural seats are disposed on the side of the platform body.
   4. The kinesthetic device with different seating orientations as claimed
      in claim 1, further comprises a position adjustment unit which
      includes plural position adjustment modules disposed between the
      plural seats and the platform body, to adjust the position of the plural
20    seats.
                                       19

  5. The kinesthetic device with different seating orientations as claimed
     in claim 1, further comprises a control unit which includes a control
     module connected electrically to the actuator module, and an
     audiovisual module connected electrically to the control module, the
5    audiovisual module is composed of plural video and audio playback
     components, the audiovisual module is provided with plural memory
     components to store different video and audio data, so that the
     plural video and audio playback components can play different video
     and audio information.
                                     20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/6

