                                                    1
Abstract
The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation includes all aspects of the product design taken together.
Namely, the limited-edition art print on the front page (1) which forms part of a series of colour
prints done in red, blue, pink, yellow, green, purple, gold, orange, brown, and black respectively.
The sports joke inside the card (2) that is directly related to the particular sport depicted on the
front. The QR code placed in the centre of the back page (3) with links to a locally produced
sports video, or designated sporting business website. And the printed advertisement promoting
upcoming sporting events (4) that takes up the bottom third of the back page. The Greeting Card
Print Ad innovation may be seen in the Angry Sport Fox birthday card range.

                                                1/1
Drawing
Figure 1
Art print is shown on the front of the card. QR code and printed advertisement are on the back.

                                                     1
Description
Title of Innovation
[001] This innovation is known as a Greeting Card Print Advertisement, hereafter referred to as
a Greeting Card Print Ad. The innovation's title describes its four main features: It is a greeting
card. It is an art print. It is a printed advertisement. It is a multi-media advertisement.
Commercial Field
[002] The Greeting Card Print Ad is new to the market. The greeting card industry does not
currently have a product that is identical to it.
Background
[003] The Greeting Card Print Ad was devised while developing a new line of greeting cards.
Because of the ultra-competitiveness of the greeting card industry, it was necessary to produce a
distinct card range. While some of its features are shared by other cards, the Greeting Card Print
Ad also has features that set it apart from them. For example, it uses print advertising and QR
code technology.
Summary of Innovation
P Niche Market
[004] Angry Sports Fox is a new card line that employs the Greeting Card Print Ad innovation.
It caters for a target-market that follows local sports like Australian Rules football, as well as
international sports like rugby league, rugby union, cricket, and soccer. People who follow,
support, or participate in these codes will appreciate sport-themed cards that use sports humour;
art prints created from sport photos; and advertisements promoting upcoming sporting events.
O Market Solution
[005] The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation employed by the Angry Sport Fox range is a
unique, cost-effective advertising option.
O Benefits of Innovation
[006] Angry Sport Fox cards are bright, limited-edition art prints. They use conversational text
and humour to relate to the sporting public. In this respect, they are similar to other products
presently on the market. Their innovative quality lies in the printed advertisements on their back
page, which promote upcoming sporting events; and the QR code that can be scanned by smart
phones to play sport videos, or take consumers to sporting websites.
[007] The printed advertisement allows organisations and businesses aligned with various
sporting codes to reach the sporting public. The QR code also connects businesses and
consumers directly.

                                                1
Claims
       1. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation can be used on standard sized greeting cards,
          as well as larger, non-standard sized ones.
       2. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation offers consumers a limited-edition art print.
       3. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation uses print advertising to reach target markets.
       4. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation uses QR technology to reach target markets
       5. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation has real sales and marketing potential, in that
          it connects local businesses and consumers directly.
       6. The Greeting Card Print Ad innovation may also be adapted to meet business and
          consumer requirements in global markets.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
