                                               37
                                  Piston Arrangement
                                          Abstract
   A piston arrangement including a track and a piston moveable within a cylinder;
 5 wherein the track is adapted to rotate relative to the cylinder about an axis of rotation
   and has a cam surface and an edge surface extending away from the cam surface;
   wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a follower running on the cam surface;
   wherein the cam surface is shaped such that, as the track moves relative to the
   cylinder, the piston head moves in reciprocating motion within the cylinder in
10 accordance with the path of the cam surface; wherein a stabilising element is
   connected to the piston, the stabilising element extending below the piston head and
   comprising a contact surface which engages the edge surface of the track.
   FIG 6b.
15

              8/26
                    7
   50
                        15
      13b 18
                               14b
0s
                           12b
                      11b
             FIG. 6b

                                                1
                                   Piston Arrangement
   The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
   2015207424 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention relates to piston arrangements, in particular power transfer
   mechanisms coupling a piston head to a track which controls movement of the piston
   head.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   A conventional piston arrangement used, for example, in internal combustion engines
10 comprises a piston head moveable within a cylinder coupled to a crankshaft by a con
   rod. In an alternative piston arrangement a piston head may be coupled to a track
   having a cam surface, the piston head being provided with one or more cam followers
   which run along the track to control movement of the piston head.           The present
   invention relates to improvements in the power transfer mechanism coupling a piston
15 head to a track in such an alternative piston arrangement.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   A first aspect of the invention provides a piston arrangement including a track and a
   piston moveable within a cylinder; wherein the track is adapted to rotate relative to the
   cylinder about an axis of rotation and has a cam surface and an edge surface extending
20 away from the cam surface; wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a follower
   running on the cam surface; wherein the cam surface is shaped such that, as the track
   moves relative to the cylinder, the piston head moves in reciprocating motion within
   the cylinder in accordance with the path of the cam surface; wherein a stabilising
   element is connected to the piston, the stabilising element extending below the piston
25 head and comprising a contact surface which engages the edge surface of the track.
   The stabilising element acts to stabilise the piston a direction perpendicular to the
   plane of the edge surface of the track.

                                                 2
   The track may rotate about the axis of rotation while the cylinder remains stationary
   with respect to the axis of rotation. Alternatively the cylinder may move along a fixed
   track. The track may comprise a single track portion or alternatively at least two track
   portions on opposite sides of the stabilising portion. The or each track portion may
 5 provide a cam surface on which a single follower runs or alternatively two opposing
   cam surfaces on which first and second followers run. Various different possible track
   arrangements will be discussed in greater detail below.
   The track may form a continuous loop and the cam surface may form a continuous
   surface extending around the loop.      Alternatively there may be a break in the cam
10 surface, for example a small discontinuity. The cam surface may be fixed with respect
   to the track, or alternatively the cam surface may include a fixed portion which is
   fixed with respect to the track and a moving portion which forms part of the cam
   surface and which is moveable with respect to the track, for example one or more
   rollers mounted to the track. The roller may be adapted to rotate about an axis of
15 rotation, and may rotate freely, be partially constrained and/or be driven.
   The stabilising element may be rigidly attached to the piston head, for example by
   fasteners. Alternatively the stabilising element may be otherwise rigidly or pivotally
   attached to the piston head or may be integrally formed with the piston head. The
   stabilising element may be connected to the piston head via an intermediate
20 component such as a con-rod, which may be rigidly attached to the piston head and to
   the stabilising element or alternatively pivotally attached to the piston head and to the
   stabilising element.
   The stabilising portion may be blade-like such that it has a thickness in a direction
   perpendicular to the plane of the edge surface of the track which is significantly
25 smaller than its length in a direction parallel to the plane of the edge surface and
   perpendicular to the direction of movement of the piston. For example, the length of
   the stabilising element may be at least twice the thickness of the stabilising element,
   or at least three times the thickness, or at least four times the thickness, or at least five
   times the thickness. The length of the stabilising element may be substantially equal
30 to the diameter of the piston head, or alternatively may be greater or smaller then the
   piston head diameter.

                                                 3
   The shape of the contact surface of the stabilising element may substantially
   correspond to the shape of the edge surface of the track. For example the edge surface
   of the track may be straight and the contact surface of the stabilising element may
   have a corresponding straight shape, or alternatively the edge surface of the track may
 5 be convex and the contact surface of the stabilising element may have a corresponding
   concave shape. Alternatively the contact surface of the stabilising element may have
   some other shape, for example a convex stabilising element may bear against a
   straight or convex edge surface of the track.
   The stabilising element may comprise first and second end surfaces, the contact
10 surface extending between the first and second end surfaces, wherein at least one of
   the first and second end surfaces slidingly engages a locating element as the piston
   moves in reciprocating motion. Preferably the first and second end surfaces of the
   stabilising element slidingly engage first and second locating elements, thereby
   stabilising the piston in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the edge surface(s) of
15 the track.    The interface between the end surfaces and the locating elements is
   preferably planar but may have some other shape.
   The follower may comprise a roller mounted to the piston, the roller being adapted to
   rotate relative to the piston as it runs along the track. The roller may be mounted in or
   on the piston head and/or in or on the stabilising element. The piston arrangement
20 may, for example, comprise a bearing according to the second aspect of the invention
   (discussed below). Alternatively the follower may be a be a roller mounted on a full
   cylindrical shaft which protrudes from the piston head and/or stabilising element.
   Alternatively the follower may be a roller extending through or into the piston head
   and/or stabilising element which only engages the piston head and/or stabilising
25 element via a full cylindrical contact patch extending around the circumference of the
   roller. There may be multiple rollers or other followers mounted to the piston, for
   example multiple followers running on multiple cam surfaces of the track.
   The track may comprise first and second cam surfaces facing away from each other in
   opposite directions, the edge surface extending between the first and second cam
30 surfaces; wherein the piston comprises first and second followers respectively running
   on the first and second cam surfaces. The first and second followers are preferably

                                                4
   offset from each other is a direction parallel to the piston axis. The stabilising element
   preferably extends between and connects the first and second followers.           The first
   follower may be arranged to move the piston in a first direction aligned with its axis
   and the second follower may be arranged to move the piston in a second direction
 5 opposing the first direction. The opposing first and second cam surfaces may oppose
   each other by facing outwardly away from each other or alternatively by facing
   inwardly towards each other.
   The track may comprise first and second track portions located on opposite sides of
   the stabilising element, wherein the first track portion comprises an edge surface
10 extending away from at least one cam surface and the second track portion comprises
   an edge surface extending away from at least one cam surface and facing towards the
   edge surface of the first track portion, wherein the stabilising element comprises first
   and second contact surfaces which engage the respective edge surfaces of the first and
   second track portions.     The piston may therefore be fully stabilised in a direction
15 perpendicular to the plane of the edge surfaces of the track.
   The stabilising portion may have a substantially uniform thickness along its length.
   The stabilising element may have a thickness which tapers across the extent of the
   stabilising element in a direction parallel to the direction of relative movement
   between the piston and the track. The taper may allow the stabilising portion to be
20 self centring within a gap formed between the edge surfaces of the first and second
   track portions, for example under hydro-static pressure.         The taper may be small
   compared to the overall thickness of the stabilising element, for example a clearance
   of 0.08mm may be provided between the contact surfaces of the stabilising element
   and the edge surfaces of the respective track portions at one end of the stabilising
25 portion compared to a clearance of 0.04mm at the opposing end. Different clearances
   and taper angles may be employed depending on the application of the piston
   arrangement.     The stabilising element may alternatively have any other shape, for
   example a convex shape bearing against a straight or convex edge surface.
   The track may be a radial track with the cam surface(s) arranged as inner radial and/or
30 outer radial surfaces with respect to the axis of rotation. The track may therefore have
   a height in a direction extending radially outwardly from the axis of rotation which

                                                5
   varies along the extent of the track. The edge surface of the first track portion may be
   substantially parallel to the edge surface of the second track portion. The stabilising
   element may be substantially straight when viewed from a direction parallel to the
   axis of the piston.
 5 The track may be an annular track with the cam surface(s) arranged facing in a
   direction parallel to the axis of rotation. The track may therefore have a height in a
   direction parallel to the axis of rotation which varies along the extent of the track. The
   first and second track portions may be arranged concentrically such that an annular
   gap is formed between the edge surfaces of the first and second track portions. The
10 edge surfaces of the first and second track portions may therefore respectively
   comprise an outer radial face of an inner track portion and an inner radial face of an
   outer track portion. The stabilising element may be located within the annular gap
   and have a curved shape when viewed from a direction parallel to the axis of rotation,
   the curved shape having a radius substantially corresponding to that of the annular
15 gap. The stabilising element may have a first contact surface which engages the outer
   radial surface of the inner track portion and has a radius of curvature substantially
   corresponding to the radius of curvature of the outer radial surface of the inner track
   portion, and a second contact surface which engages the inner radial surface of the
   outer track portion and has a radius of curvature substantially corresponding to the
20 radius of curvature of the inner radial surface of the outer track portion.
   The edge surface may be lubricated such that the contact surface of the stabilising
   element contacts the edge surface of the track via a layer of lubricant. Where the track
   comprises first and second track portions, the edge surfaces of both track portions may
   be lubricated.
25 The contact surface of the stabilising element may comprise a lubricant pick-up
   adapted to receive lubricant from the edge surface of the track.            Lubricant may
   therefore be taken up by the stabilising element via the lubricant pick-up and supplied
   around the stabilising element and around the piston to any parts of the stabilising
   element or piston which require lubrication. The pick-up may comprise a hole formed
30 in the contact surface. There may be one or more pick-ups located on one or both
   contact surfaces of the stabilising element.

                                               6
   The edge surface may be lubricated by a lubricant delivery device; wherein the
   lubricant delivery device comprises a body portion including a lubricant delivery port
   through which lubricant is supplied to the edge surface; wherein the lubricant delivery
   device further comprises at least one follower which couples the lubricant delivery
 5 device to the track such that, as the track moves relative to the cylinder, the lubricant
   delivery device moves in reciprocating motion in accordance with the path of the track
   thereby maintaining the lubricant supply to the edge surface. The lubricant delivery
   device preferably comprises first and second followers running on first and second
   cam surfaces of the track which respectively act to move the lubricant delivery device
10 in opposing directions. In some embodiments, one or both followers may be adapted
   to sweep excess oil away from one or more cam surfaces of the track on which the
   piston mounted followers run, although the lubricant delivery device followers are not
   required to have any lubricant clearing function.        The lubricant delivery device
   followers preferably have the same spacing and radii as the first and second followers
15 mounted to the piston.       The lubricant delivery device followers are preferably
   integrally formed with the body portion of the lubrication device and have sliding
   bearing surfaces which run on the cam surfaces of the track, but alternatively may
   comprise bearings or rollers. Alternatively the edge surface(s) may be lubricated in by
   alternative means, for example lubricant jets.
20 An internal combustion engine may comprise at least one piston arrangement
   according to the first aspect of the invention. Alternatively the piston arrangement
   may be used in another application, for example in a pump. The internal combustion
   engine may comprise multiple piston arrangements running from a common track
   and/or multiple tracks driving separate piston arrangements.
25 A second aspect of the invention provides a piston arrangement including a piston
   moveable within a cylinder and a track having a cam surface which is adapted to
   move relative to the cylinder; wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a bearing
   which runs on the cam surface; wherein the bearing has a roller and a curved bearing
   surface on which the roller is rotatably mounted such that the roller is held captive
30 between the cam surface and the bearing surface; wherein the bearing surface engages
   the roller via a contact patch which extends only a portion of the distance around the
   circumference of the roller. A piston arrangement according to the second aspect of

                                               7
   the invention may include at least some of the features described in relation to the first
   aspect of the invention.
   The bearing transfers loads between the piston and the track via the roller. The roller
   is adapted to rotate on the curved bearing surface and roll along the track, although the
 5 roller may also experience slip relative to the track.    Because the bearing does not
   have a full 360 degree contact patch between bearing surface and the roller, the
   bearing advantageously reduces or prevents bearing whirl.
   The curved bearing surface may engage an inner radial surface of the roller.
   The curved bearing surface may be provided on a shoe which extends into a hollow
10 centre of the roller. The shoe may be integrally formed with the piston. Alternatively
   the shoe may be otherwise attached to the piston, for example by fasteners or by a
   welded joint. There may be one or more intervening components via which the shoe
   is connected to the piston head. The roller may be held captive between the shoe and
   the running surface such that it can rotate on the shoe but cannot leave the shoe unless
15 the shoe and the track are moved apart from each other. The shoe may comprise a
   single one-piece shoe, or alternatively the shoe may comprise multiple discrete shoe
   sections.
   The shoe may comprise a lubricant outlet and/or a lubricant pick-up for supplying a
   lubricant to the inner radial surface of the roller and/or removing lubricant from the
20 inner radial surface of the roller.    The shoe may therefore lubricate the interface
   between the curved bearing surface and the roller, and the lubricant may be
   continuously replaced, for example to control the temperature of the lubricant on the
   inner radial surface of the roller. Preferably the lubricant outlet and/or lubricant pick
   up are provided on the curved bearing surface.
25 The roller may have a radially inwardly extending flange located to the side of the
   shoe. The flange may comprise first and second radially inwardly extending flanges
   on alternate sides of the shoe. The flange(s) may help to retain the roller on the shoe.
   The contact patch between the curved bearing surface and the inner radial surface of
   the roller may extends through an angle of less than 180 degrees.          Preferably the

                                               8
   contact patch extends through an angle of less than 160 degrees or less than 140
   degrees or less than 120 degrees or less than 100 degrees or less than 90 degrees.
   Alternatively the contact patch may extend through an angle greater than 180 degrees,
   for example 200 degrees or more. Particularly where the roller comprises one or more
 5 radially inwardly extending flanges, a contact patch which extends through less than
   180 degrees may improve ease of installation of the roller on the shoe.
   The contact patch between the curved bearing surface and the inner radial surface of
   the roller may be offset to one side of a plane passing through the central axis of
   rotation of the roller and aligned with the direction of movement of the piston within
10 the cylinder. For example, at least 55% or at least 60% or at least 70% or at least 80%
   of the contact patch by area may be located to one side of the plane. A central point of
   the contact patch may be offset to one side of the plane, for example by at least 5
   degrees or at least 10 degrees or at least 20 degrees or at least 30 degrees around the
   central axis of rotation of the roller. The shoe may be offset to one side of the plane.
15 The contact patch and the shoe may be aligned with or offset towards a direction of
   peak loading. Offsetting the shoe towards one side of the roller may help to withstand
   peak loads which are transmitted between the track and the piston via the roller at an
   angle which is not aligned with the direction of movement of the component.
   The curved bearing surface may engage an outer radial surface of the roller. Because
20 the bearing surface does not extend around the entire circumference of the roller, a
   portion of the outer surface of the roller remains exposed, that is the portion of the
   circumference of the roller around which the curved bearing surface does not extend.
   Therefore the roller can run on the cam surface while also engaging the curved
   bearing surface at a location directly above its interface with the cam surface. Load
25 transfer between the track and the piston via the roller is therefore improved.
   It should be noted that although the curved bearing surface engages the roller via a
   contact patch which extends only a portion of the distance around the circumference
   of the roller, thereby allowing an exposed portion of the roller to engage the cam
   surface, the roller may also engage a further bearing surface which extends around a
30 greater portion of the circumference, for example up to 360 degrees. In this case the
   further bearing surface is located to the side of the roller at a location where it is not

                                               9
   required to leave a portion of the outer radial surface of the roller exposed so that it
   can engage the track. The further bearing surface may be continuous with the bearing
   surface referred to above. For example, if the roller extends through the piston to
   engage cam surfaces on alternate sides of the piston (as described in more detail
 5 below), the roller may engage cam surfaces on alternate sides of the piston via contact
   patches which leave a portion of the radial outer surface exposed and also via an
   intermediate bearing surface which may extend around the entire circumference of the
   roller.
   The piston may have a head with a working face; wherein the curved bearing surface
10 is provided on a reverse side of the piston head. The piston head may be at least
   partially hollow or alternatively solid.     Alternatively the curved bearing surface
   engaging the outer radial surface of the roller may be provided at another location on
   the piston or may be provided on a separate component which is attached to the
   piston, for example by fasteners or by a welded joint. There may be one or more
15 intervening components via which the curved bearing surface is connected to the
   piston head. The roller may be held captive between the curved bearing surface and
   the running surface such that it can rotate on the curved bearing surface but cannot
   leave the curved bearing surface unless the curved bearing surface and the track are
   moved apart from each other.
20 The curved bearing surface engaging the outer radial surface of the roller may
   comprise a lubricant outlet and/or a lubricant pick-up.
   The roller may have an axial end face; wherein a retaining component is removably
   attached to the piston, the retaining component being located at the axial end face of
   the roller to prevent the roller from moving with respect to the piston in a direction
25 aligned with its rotational axis beyond the retaining component.         The retaining
   component may, for example, be attached to a piston head by one or more removable
   fasteners.
   The contact patch between the curved bearing surface and the outer radial surface of
   the roller may extend through an angle of between 120 degrees and 330 degrees.
30 Preferably the contact patch extends through an angle of more than 150 degrees or

                                                10
   more than 180 degrees or more than 210 degrees or more than 240 degrees.
   Preferably the contact patch extends through an angle of less than 310 or less than 290
   degrees.      The contact patch may for example extend through an angle of
   approximately 270 degrees.       At least a portion of the contact patch may, however,
 5 extend through a smaller angle, for example 90 degrees.
   The contact patch between the curved bearing surface and the outer radial surface of
   the roller may be offset to one side of a plane passing through the central axis of
   rotation of the roller and aligned with the direction of movement of the piston within
   the cylinder.   A central point of the contact patch may be offset to one side of the
10 plane. The contact patch may be offset to one side of the plane such that an exposed
   portion of the outer surface of the roller which is not engaged by the bearing surface
   (that is the portion of the circumference of the roller around which the curved bearing
   surface does not extend) is also offset to one side of the plane. By offsetting the
   exposed portion of the roller to one side, the bearing can allow the geometry of the
15 track and the location of the cylinder to be optimised while avoiding fouling of the
   track on piston head (or other component on which the curved bearing surface is
   provide).    Alternatively or in addition the bearing surface may be aligned with or
   offset towards a direction of maximum loading.
   The cam surface may be shaped such that, as the track moves relative to the cylinder,
20 the piston head moves in reciprocating motion within the cylinder in accordance with
   the path of the cam surface.
   At least a portion of the cam surface may be provided with a coating or surface
   treatment.    The coating or surface treatment may increase hardness and/or reduce
   friction. Alternatively or in addition at least a portion of the cam surface may be
25 provided on a separate component to a main body of the track, the separate component
   providing a harder and/or lower friction surface than the main body of the track.
   The track may form a continuous loop which rotates relative to the cylinder about an
   axis of rotation, and the cam surface may form a continuous surface extending around
   the loop. Alternatively there may be a break in the cam surface, for example a small
30 discontinuity. The cam surface may be fixed with respect to the track, or alternatively

                                                 11
   the cam surface may include a fixed portion which is fixed with respect to the track
   and a moving portion which forms part of the cam surface and which is moveable
   with respect to the track, for example one or more rollers mounted to the track. The
   roller may be adapted to rotate about an axis of rotation, and may rotate freely, be
 5 partially constrained and/or be driven.
   The cylinder may remain fixed while the track moves relative to the cylinder.
   Alternatively the cylinder may move relative to a fixed track.
   The roller may comprise a protrusion extending beyond its outer radial surface around
   its circumference which engages the track to prevent the roller from moving relative
10 to the piston in a direction aligned with the rotational axis of the roller and/or the track
   may     comprise    a protrusion   extending     beyond the    cam    surface   around    its
   circumference which engages the roller to prevent the roller from moving relative to
   the piston in a direction aligned with the rotational axis of the roller. Where the roller
   comprises a protrusion, the track may comprise a corresponding recess or chamfer
15 which engages the protrusion. Where the track comprises a protrusion the roller may
   comprise a corresponding recess or chamfer which engages the protrusion. One or
   more protrusions provided on the roller and/or the track may be located at one or both
   axial ends of the roller and/or at one or more intermediate positions between the axial
   ends of the roller.
20 The contact patch may be part cylindrical.          Alternatively the contact patch may
   additionally have curvature in a second direction aligned with the axis of rotation of
   the roller.
   The track may further comprise a second cam surface facing in the opposite direction
   to the first cam surface; wherein the piston arrangement further comprises a second
25 bearing having a roller and a curved bearing surface on which the roller is rotatably
   mounted such that the roller is held captive between the second cam surface and the
   bearing surface; wherein the bearing surface engages the roller via a contact patch
   which extends only a portion of the distance around the circumference of the roller.
   The second bearing may have some or all of the features described above in relation to
30 the first bearing. The roller of the first bearing may be adapted to move the piston in a

                                                12
   first direction in accordance with the path of the first cam surface and the roller of the
   second bearing may be adapted to move the piston in an opposing second direction in
   accordance with the path of the second cam surface. The component may therefore be
   constrained in both directions and move in reciprocating motion in accordance with
 5 the path of the track. The opposing first and second running surfaces may oppose
   each other by facing outwardly away from each other or alternatively by facing
   inwardly towards each other.
   The track may comprise first and second track portions located on opposite sides of
   the piston, each track portion providing a respective cam surface. A common roller
10 may engage the cam surfaces of both the first and second track portions. The common
   roller may extend through the piston.       Alternatively, two separate rollers may be
   provided on alternate sides of the piston, each roller engaging a respective one of the
   first and second track portions.       The first and second track portions may each
   comprise a first cam surface and a second cam surface facing in the opposite direction
15 with first and second bearings operating on each of the respective first and second cam
   surfaces.
   The track may be a radial track with the cam surface arranged as inner radial or outer
   radial surface with respect to an axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder.
   The cylinder may have a central axis, wherein the cylinder axis does not pass through
20 the axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder. In this case the component
   does not follow purely radial motion towards and away from the centre of the track
   but instead moves at an acute angle to the radius line. The axis of rotation of the track
   relative to the cylinder may be offset from the cylinder axis by a distance equal to at
   least 10% or at least 25 % or at least 50% or at least 7 5 % or at least 100% or more than
25 100% of the piston stroke length.       The axis of rotation of the track relative to the
   cylinder may be offset from the cylinder axis by an angle of at least 2 degrees or at
   least 5 degrees or at least 10 degrees or at least 15 degrees or up to 20 degrees when
   taken from the rotational axis of the roller. By arranging the cylinder axis at an angle
   to the axis of rotation of the track the geometry of the piston arrangement and track
30 may be optimised for efficient transfer of power from the piston to the track and/or

                                                 13
   vice-versa. Arranging the piston at an angle may also allow the gradient of the track
   to be optimised.
   The track may be an annular track with the cam surface arranged facing in a direction
   parallel to an axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder. Where such a track
 5 comprises first and second track portions on alternate sides of the component, the first
   and second track portions are preferably arranged concentrically such that an annular
   gap is formed between the edge surfaces of the first and second track portions. The
   piston may have a stabilising portion extending between the first and second portions
   as described in relation to the first aspect of the invention.
10 The cylinder may have a central axis, wherein the cylinder axis is not parallel to the
   axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder. The cylinder axis may be offset
   from the axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder by at least 2 degrees or at
   least 5 degrees or at least 10 degrees or at least 15 degrees or up to 20 degrees. By
   arranging the cylinder axis at an angle to the axis of rotation of the track the geometry
15 of the piston arrangement and track may be optimised for efficient transfer of power
   from the piston to the track and/or vice-versa. Arranging the piston at an angle may
   also allow the gradient of the track to be optimised.
   The roller may comprise a tapered shape such that its diameter at a radially inner-most
   edge of the cam surface is smaller than its diameter at a radially outer-most edge of
20 the cam surface.     The taper accounts for the difference in path length between the
   inner-most part of the track and the outer-most part of the track, thereby allowing the
   roller to roll more smoothly over the track without skidding or slipping.
   An internal combustion engine may comprising a piston operated by a bearing
   arrangement according to the second aspect of the invention. Alternatively the piston
25 arrangement of the second aspect may be used in any other application, for example in
   a pump.
   A third aspect of the invention provides a piston arrangement including a piston
   moveable within a cylinder and a track having a cam surface which is adapted to
   move relative to the cylinder; wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a bearing
30 which runs on the cam surface; wherein the bearing comprises a roller and a curved

                                                14
   bearing surface; wherein the roller has a radial outer surface which runs on the cam
   surface; wherein the curved bearing surface engages an outer redial surface of the
   roller such that the roller is held captive between the bearing surface and the cam
   surface; wherein the bearing surface engages the roller via a contact patch which
 5 extends only a portion of the distance around the circumference of the roller such that
   a portion of the radial outer surface of the roller is exposed so that it can run on the
   cam surface.
   A fourth aspect of the invention provides an internal combustion engine comprising a
   piston arrangement including a piston coupled to a track; wherein the track is coupled
10 to a shaft and has a cam surface, and the piston has a follower which runs on the cam
   surface of the track to control motion of the piston; the engine further comprising a
   casing including first and second casing elements, wherein the first casing element
   meets the second casing element at an interface and the first piston moves in
   reciprocating motion within a bore which passes through the interface between the
15 first and second casing elements.
   The bore within which the piston moves may be provided by a separate cylinder
   which is attached to the first and second casing elements. Alternatively the bore may
   be formed directly in the first and second casing elements. A bore formed in the first
   and second casing elements may additionally be provided with a cylinder liner. More
20 than one piston may be coupled to the track. For example two opposing pistons may
   be coupled to the track on opposite sides of the shaft, which each piston moving
   within its own respective bores which passes through the interface between the first
   and second casing elements. The track is preferably a radial track as described above
   in relation to the preceding aspects of the invention. The track preferably has a central
25 hole which receives the shaft and is mounted on the shaft by feeding the shaft through
   the central hole.     Relative rotation between the track and the shaft is preferably
   achieved by a splined or keyed interface between the tracks and the shaft.
   A power transfer mechanism including a piston with a follower coupled to an output
   shaft by a track with a cam surface is larger and may be more difficult to assemble
30 than a conventional power transfer mechanism using a crankshaft and con rod. By
   adapting the engine casing to be assembled around the piston and the track after the

                                               15
   piston has been coupled to the track the engine is easier to design and assemble. By
   arranging the casing with a split line between adjacent casing elements at the location
   of the bore, the first and second casing elements may be readily assembled around the
   piston and track after the piston has been coupled to the track and the track has been
 5 coupled to the shaft.
   The track may have first and second cam surfaces facing in opposite directions and the
   piston may have first and second followers which respectively run on the first and
   second cam surfaces of its respective track; wherein the piston is coupled to its
   respective track by engaging the first cam surface with the first follower and engaging
10 the second cam surface with the second follower. The first follower and first cam
   surface may be adapted to move the piston in a first direction and the second follower
   and second cam surface may be adapted to move the piston in a second direction
   opposing the first direction.    The track may be held captive between the first and
   second followers, or alternatively the first and second followers may be held captive
15 between the first and second cam surfaces.
   The track may comprise first and second track portions, each track portion having a
   cam surface; wherein the piston is coupled to the track via the cam surfaces of the first
   and second track portions. The cam surfaces of the first and second track portions
   may each be engaged by a common follower or alternatively two separate followers
20 may be provided, each follower engaging the cam surface of a respective one of the
   track portions. The piston may include a stabilising element extending between the
   first and second track portions. Each track portion may comprise first and second cam
   surfaces facing in opposite directions, with a follower running on each of the first and
   second cam surfaces.      The track portions may be separated from each other by a
25 spacer mounted on the shaft, for example an annular sleeve type spacer.
   A plate-like locating element may be provided between the first and second track
   portions, the locating element acting to stabilise the piston and prevent movement of
   the piston between the first and second track portions.
   The interface between the first and second casing elements may be substantially
30 planar. The interface may lie in a plane which is substantially perpendicular to the

                                              16
   axis of the shaft. Alternatively the interface may follow any other contour, may not
   lie in a plane perpendicular to the shaft, and/or may be spliced or include other
   overlapping features.
   The internal combustion engine may further comprise a second piston coupled to a
 5 second track; wherein the second track is coupled to the shaft and has a cam surface,
   and the second piston has a follower which runs on the cam surface of the second
   track to control motion of the second piston; the casing further including a third casing
   element, wherein the second casing element meets the third casing element at an
   interface and the second piston moves in reciprocating motion within a bore which
10 passes through the interface between the second and third casing elements.
   Where an engine comprises multiple tracks operating multiple pistons, a plurality of
   casing elements are provided along the length of the shaft such that each piston moves
   in reciprocating motion within a bore extending through an interface between two
   adjacent casing elements. The engine may generally include any number of tracks
15 spaced apart along the shaft, each track being coupled to one or more pistons. Two
   casing elements are brought together around the (or each) piston coupled to each
   track. Therefore for each additional track the engine includes an additional casing
   element such that a casing element is located between each pair of adjacent tracks.
   For example, an engine having only one track will have a pair of end casing elements
20 which meet at an interface around the (or each) piston coupled to the single track.
   Each of the end casing elements will partially enclose the bore within which the (or
   each) piston coupled to the single track moves. An engine having only two tracks will
   have a pair of end casing elements and an intermediate casing element located
   between the pair of tracks, the intermediate casing element meeting one of the end
25 casing elements at an interface through which the (or each) piston coupled to one of
   the tracks passes and meeting the other one of the end casing elements at an interface
   through which the (or each) piston coupled to the other one of the tracks passes. An
   engine having only three tracks, the casing will include a pair of end casing elements,
   an intermediate casing element located between the first and second tracks and
30 another casing element located between the second and third tracks.

                                                17
   A common design of casing elements may be used in the assembly of various different
   engines having different numbers of track/piston arrangements.           The number of
   different components required for producing multiple different designs of engine may
   therefore be reduced.
 5 Each casing element may at least substantially surround the shaft. A gap or aperture
   may be provided in at least one of the casing elements which opens into a sump.
   Alternatively at least one of the casing elements may not extend around the shaft. An
   end casing element may be open at its inwardly facing end to interface with the
   adjacent casing element and closed at its outwardly facing end to seal the end of the
10 engine casing. An intermediate casing element (located between two adjacent tracks
   where the engine comprises multiple tracks) is generally open at both ends to interface
   with adjacent casing elements on both sides. The casing elements may be cast and/or
   machined.
   The casing elements may be attached together by a plurality of fasteners passing
15 through each of the casing elements.       The fasteners may be, for example, bolts or
   threaded bars.     The casing elements may be attached together by a single set of
   fasteners passing through all of the casing elements, or alternatively each casing
   element may be individually attached to the adjacent casing element(s). One or more
   dowel pins may additionally pass through at least two adjacent casing elements.
20 A fifth aspect of the invention provides a method of assembling an internal
   combustion engine comprising a piston arrangement including a piston coupled to a
   track; wherein the track is coupled to a shaft and has a cam surface, and the piston has
   a follower which runs on the cam surface of the track to control motion of the piston;
   the engine further comprising a casing including first and second casing elements,
25 wherein the first casing element meets the second casing element at an interface and
   the first piston moves in reciprocating motion within a bore which passes through the
   interface between the first and second casing elements; the method including the steps
   of:
            a) coupling the first piston arrangement to the shaft by coupling the first track
30 to the shaft and coupling the first piston to the first track;

                                                18
            b) bringing the first and second casing elements together around the first piston
   after the first piston arrangement has been coupled to the shaft; and
            c) coupling the first and second casing elements together using one or more
   fasteners.
 5 The first and second casing elements may both be moved into position with respect to
   the shaft at the same time after the first piston arrangement has been coupled to the
   track or alternatively at different times after the first piston arrangement has been
   coupled to the track. Alternatively either one of the casing elements may be moved
   into position before the first piston arrangement has been coupled to the shaft and the
10 other casing element may be moved into position (such that the first and second casing
   elements are brought together) after the first piston arrangement has been coupled to
   the shaft.
   As stated above, a power transfer mechanism including a piston with a follower
   coupled to an output shaft by a track with a cam surface is larger and may be more
15 difficult to assemble than a conventional power transfer mechanism using a crankshaft
   and con rod. By adapting the engine casing to be assembled around the piston and the
   track after the piston has been coupled to the track the engine is easier to design and
   assemble. In particular the technician assembling the engine has enough space to
   couple the first piston to the first track and couple the first track to the shaft because
20 he has full access from at least one side of the piston arrangement.
   The internal combustion engine may further comprise a second piston coupled to a
   second track; wherein the second track is coupled to the shaft and has a cam surface,
   and the second piston has a follower which runs on the cam surface of the second
   track to control motion of the second piston; the casing further including a third casing
25 element, wherein the second casing element meets the third casing element at an
   interface and the second piston moves in reciprocating motion within a bore which
   passes through the interface between the second and third casing elements.             The
   method may further include the steps of:
            d) coupling the second piston arrangement to the shaft by coupling the second
30 track to the shaft and coupling the second piston to the second track;

                                              19
           e) bringing the second and third casing elements together around the second
   piston after the second piston arrangement has been coupled to the shaft; and
           f) coupling the first and second casing elements together and coupling the
   second and third casing elements together using one or more fasteners,
 5         wherein the second casing element is positioned between the first and second
   pistons before the first and second piston arrangements have both been coupled to the
   shaft.
   The second casing element (which is an intermediate casing element located between
   two adjacent piston arrangements associated with two adjacent separate tracks) is
10 brought into position with respect to the shaft before both of the first and second
   piston arrangements have been coupled to the track. In this way it is possible to move
   the second casing element into position without fouling on the tracks of the pistons.
   The second casing element may be brought into position either before either of the
   first and second piston arrangements has been coupled to the shaft or alternatively
15 after one of the piston arrangements has been coupled to the shaft but before the other
   piston arrangement has been coupled to the shaft.
   The first, second and third casing elements may all be coupled together at the same
   time, for example using a common set of fasteners. Alternatively the first and second
   casing elements may be coupled together using a first set of fasteners and the second
20 and third casing elements may be coupled together separately using a second set of
   fasteners.
   The method of the fifth aspect of the invention may be used to assemble an engine
   having any number of tracks spaced apart along a shaft, each track forming part of a
   piston arrangement. In this case each intermediate casing element (located between
25 two adjacent tracks) is brought into position before the piston arrangements on both
   sides have been coupled to the shaft, although generally after the piston arrangement
   on one side has been coupled to the shaft. Each end casing element is brought into
   position after the piston arrangement arranged at that far end of the shaft has been
   brought into position.

                                                20
   Where the engine includes one or more locating elements positioned between two
   adjacent track portions, the method may further comprise the step of positioning the
   locating element between the first and second track portions before attaching the
   plurality of casing elements together to form a casing around the piston and the track.
 5 The internal combustion engine of the fourth aspect may comprise a piston
   arrangement according to any of the first, second and/or third aspects of the invention,
   and the method of the fifth aspect of the invention may be used to assemble an internal
   combustion engine comprising a piston arrangement according to any of the first,
   second and/or third aspects of the invention.
10 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 shows an engine;
   Figure 2 shows the engine with various components omitted;
15 Figure 3 and 4 show end and top views of the engine with the casing omitted;
   Figures 5a, 5b, 6a and 6b show the power transfer mechanism for one of the pistons in
   the engine with certain components omitted;
   Figures 7a to 7e show a piston from the engine;
   Figure 8 shows a cross section through the power transfer mechanism for one of the
20 pistons in the engine;
   Figures 9a and 9b shows two of the pistons from the engine and locating elements
   used to stabilise the pistons and an oil delivery mechanism;
   Figures 10a to 10d show various alternative bearing arrangements;
   Figure 11 shows an alternative track which may be used in the engine;
25 Figures 12, 13a, 13b and 14 show an alternative track lay-out;

                                               21
   Figures 15a and 15b show an alternative bearing arrangement; and
   Figures 16a to 16j show the engine at various stages during assembly.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT(S)
   Figure 1 shown as internal combustion engine 1 comprising a block assembly 2 and
 5 two head assemblies 3a, 3b and an exhaust system. Figure 2 shows the engine 1 with
   the head assemblies 3a, 3b and exhaust system omitted.         The head assemblies and
   exhaust system will not be discussed in detail because they do not form part of the
   invention. The block assembly 2 comprises three casing members 4a, 4b, 4c, in which
   four piston assemblies 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d are mounted. Figures 3 and 4 respectively show
10 end and top views of the engine 1 with the casing members 4a, 4b, 4c, removed so that
   the piston assemblies 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d are visible. Figures 5a, 5b, 6a and 6b show the
   first piston assembly 5a with the second third and fourth piston assemblies 5b, 5c, 5d
   omitted for clarity. The structure and functioning of the first piston assembly will be
   described in detail, although it will be appreciated that the second, third and fourth
15 piston assemblies are structurally and functionally similar to the first piston assembly.
   The first piston assembly 5a comprises a piston 80 with a piston head 7 (shown in
   figures 7a to 7e) moveable within a cylinder sleeve 8 (visible in figure 2). The piston
   head 7 is coupled to an output shaft 9 having an axis of rotation 9a and an output
   flange 10 via a track comprising first and second track portions lla, 11 b. Each track
20 portion 1 la, 11 b is mounted on and rotationally fixed with respect to the output shaft 9
   via a splined connection (not visible). The track portions lla, 1lb rotate with the
   output shaft 9 about the axis of rotation 9a relative to the piston head 7 and the
   cylinder sleeve 8.
   Each track portion lla, 1lb has a radially outer cam surface 12a, 12b extending
25 around its circumference.    Each track portion also has a radially inner cam surface
   13a, 13b located on an underside of an overhanging portion, the inner cam surfaces
   facing away from the outer cam surfaces, i.e. in the opposite direction. A planar edge
   surface 14a, 14b extends between the outer and inner cam surfaces of each track
   portion.

                                               22
   Figures 7a, 7b, 7c and 7d show side, front, rear and perspective views of the piston of
   the first piston assembly 5a. The piston includes the piston head 7, a stabilising
   element or blade element 15 connected to and extending below the piston head, and a
   cap element 16 connected to and extending below the stabilising element.               The
 5 stabilising element 15 and cap element 16 are connected to the piston head 7 by bolts
   17. The piston further includes first and second cylindrical rollers 18, 20 rotatably
   mounted within the piston.
   The first roller 18 has a cylindrical outer radial surface which bears against a pair of
   part-cylindrical contact patches 19a formed on the underside of the piston head 7 (that
10 is the side opposing the working face) on each side of the piston (that is on opposite
   sides of the stabilising element 15).     The part-cylindrical contact patches 19a each
   extend only a portion of the distance around the circumference of the roller 18 so they
   do not fully enclose the roller but instead leave portions 18a of the radial outer surface
   of the roller exposed underneath the part-cylindrical contact patches 19a (as shown in
15 figures 7a to 7d). The exposed portions 18a run on the outer cam surfaces 12a, 12b of
   the track 11 a, 11 b and transmit load between the piston and the track. Since the part
   cylindrical bearing surfaces 19a are located directly above the contact patches
   between the roller 18 and the outer cam surfaces 12a, 12b of the track the roller can
   efficiently transmit load directly between the piston and the track.
20 The part-cylindrical contact patches 19a extend through an angle al of approximately
   90 degrees about the axis of rotation of the roller 18 at their narrowest outer-most
   portions (that is the ends furthest from the main body of the stabilising element 15)
   and through an angle of approximately 270 degrees at their widest, inner-most
   portions.    The roller 18 also engages the piston via an additional full-cylindrical
25 contact patch 19b located between the part-cylindrical contact patches 19a, as shown
   in figure 7e. However, the full-cylindrical contact patch 19b is located between the
   cam surfaces 12a, 12b at a location where the roller does not engage the track and so
   no portion of the outer radial surface of the roller is required to be left exposed at this
   location.
30 As can be seen in figure 7a, the part-cylindrical contact patches 19a are not located
   symmetrically with respect to the central axis 7a of the piston head 7 but instead each

                                                 23
   of the contact patches is offset to one side of the piston axis when the piston is viewed
   from the direction of the rotational axis of the roller 18.       This offset allows the
   exposed portions 18a of the roller to be offset to one side of the piston to allow
   clearance for the track 1la, 1lb which would otherwise foul on the piston. This is
 5 especially important in the embodiment shown in figure 3 where the piston axis is not
   arranged radially but is instead angularly offset from the axis of rotation of the track,
   as can be seen in figures 3 and 5a and as will be discussed in more detail below. The
   first roller 18 is prevented from moving axially by keeper plates 22 (shown in figure
   7a) which are bolted to the piston head at each axial end of the roller.
10 The second roller 20 has a cylindrical outer radial surface which bears against a pair
   of part-cylindrical contact patches 21 a formed on the upper side of the cap element 16
   on each side of the piston. The part-cylindrical contact patches 21 a each extend only a
   portion of the distance around the circumference of the roller 20 (through an angle U2)
   so they do not fully enclose the roller but instead leave portions 20a of the radial outer
15 surface exposed above the part-cylindrical contact patches 21 a. The exposed portions
   20a run on the inner cam surfaces 12a, 12b to transmit load between the piston and the
   track 11 a, 1 lb. As can be seen in figure 7a, the part-cylindrical contact patches 21a
   are offset in a similar manner to the part-cylindrical contact patches 19a which engage
   the first roller 18.   The second roller 20 also has a smaller diameter and a lighter
20 construction than the first roller because the peak loads transmitted between the piston
   and the track by the second roller are lower than the peak loads transmitted between
   the piston and the track by the first roller.
   The stabilising element 15 comprises first and second contact surfaces 23a, 23b
   (shown in figure 7d) which respectively engage the edge surfaces 14a, 14b of the track
25 1la, 1lb via an oil film to stabilise the piston relative to the track.      The contact
   surfaces 23a, 23b are substantially planar to correspond to the planar edge surfaces of
   the track. However, the stabilising element comprises a taper in its thickness t across
   its extent in a direction parallel to the direction of relative motion between the
   stabilising element and the track (indicated by an arrow in figure 8) such that the
30 clearance distance between the contact surfaces 23a, 23b of the stabilising element
   and the edge surfaces 14a, 14b of the track 11 a, 1 lb decreases from the front to the
   rear of the stabilising element (the front being defined as the end which faces towards

                                                24
   the oncoming track, i.e. the edge towards the top of the page in figure 8).            The
   stabilising element may, for example, have a taper angle a3 of approximately 0.03
   degrees.    The tapered shape of the stabilising element 15 causes the stabilising
   element to centre itself under the action of hydrostatic pressure as the track moves
 5 relative to the piston, thereby stabilising the piston. A cross section of the stabilising
   element and track taken in a plane perpendicular to the axis of movement of the piston
   is shown in figure 8 with the taper exaggerated for illustrative purposes.
   The stabilising element 15 comprises first and second end surfaces 30, 31 between
   which the contact surfaces 23a, 23b extend. The first and second end surfaces 30, 31
10 engage and slide against first and second locating surfaces 32a, 33a provided on first
   and second locating elements 32, 33, as shown in figure 9a. (The locating elements
   are not shown in figures 3 to 6b to improve clarity.) The locating elements are plate
   like elements which are positioned between the first and second track portions l la,
   1 lb and bolted to the casing members 4a, 4b, 4c when the engine is fully assembled.
15 (The locating elements are omitted from figures 3 to 7 so that the piston tracks and
   pistons are not obstructed).     The locating elements 32, 33 prevent the stabilising
   element 15 from moving forwards and backwards or rotating within the slot formed
   between the track portions. As can be seen in figure 9a, the same pair of locating
   elements are also used to locate the stabilising element of the piston of the second
20 piston assembly 5b.
   The stabilising element 15 comprises an oil pick-up 24 having openings in its contact
   surfaces 23a, 23b adapted to receive oil from the oil film on the edge surfaces 14a,
   14b of the track 11 a, 11 b. Oil is supplied from the oil pick-up 24 around the piston
   via internal oil passages 25 to locations requiring lubrication, for example the
25 interface between the first roller 18 and the piston head 7 and stabilising element 15
   and the interface between the second roller 20 and the stabilising element 15 and cap
   element 16.
   Oil is delivered to the edge surfaces 14a, 14b by an oil delivery device 50 shown in
   figures 9a and 9b.      The oil delivery device 50 comprises an elongate main body
30 portion 51 which is slidably received in a recess 60 formed in the locating element 33,
   the main body 51 having a working surface facing away from the locating element 33

                                                25
   and a pair of cam followers 52, 53 extending from the working surface at either end of
   the body portion. The first cam follower 52 has a bearing surface with a radius of
   curvature substantially equal to the radius of the first roller 18 and bears against the
   outer cam surface 12a of the first track portion 11 a. The second cam follower 53 has a
 5 bearing surface with a radius of curvature substantially equal to the radius of the
   second roller 20 and bears against the inner cam surface 13a of the first track portion
   11 a. The working surface of the oil delivery device lies adjacent the edge surface 14a
   of the first track portion 11 a. As the track rotates within the engine, the followers 52,
   53 move the oil delivery device within the recess 60 in accordance with the path shape
10 of the track such that the working surface remains adjacent the edge surface of the
   track.   A second oil delivery device (not shown) is provided in a similar slot 62
   formed in the other locating element 32.
   Oil is delivered under pressure by a pump (not shown) into the recess 60 via an
   internal passage extending through the locating element 33 and having an outlet in the
15 recess. (The outlet of the internal passage is obscured by the main body 51 of the oil
   delivery device 50 but the outlet opening into a similar recess for receiving a similar
   oil delivery device in the other locating element 32 is visible in figure 9a.) The oil is
   received and collected in a chamber 54 formed in the reverse face of the main body 51
   (shown in figure 9b), then supplied to the edge surface 14a of the first track portion
20 1 la through a hole 55 extending through the main body 51 from the chamber 54 to the
   working surface.      The chamber is sufficiently long that the outlet discharges oil
   directly into the chamber 54 throughout the full range of motion of the oil delivery
   device as it is moved by the track 11 a. The working surface acts to limit the height of
   the oil film formed on the edge surface 14a, and can act as a wiper to remove excess
25 oil. Therefore the oil delivery device 50 allows oil to be continuously supplied in a
   controlled manner to the edge surface 14a of the track portion 11 a shortly upstream of
   the stabilising element such that the edge surface is well lubricated as it moves past
   the stabilising element. The second oil delivery device lubricates the edge surface 14a
   of the track portion 11 a shortly upstream of the stabilising element of the piston
30 assembly 5b located on the opposite side of the track 11 a, 11 b. Additional oil delivery
   devices (not shown) are mounted on the opposite faces of the locating elements 32, 33
   to lubricate the edge surface 14b of the second track portion 1 lb.

                                              26
   As can be seen in figure 5a, the central axis of the piston does not pass through the
   axis of rotation of the track 11 a, 1 lb but instead the axis of rotation of the track is
   offset from the piston axis by an angle a4. The angle a4 is approximately 15 degrees
   when taken from the rotational axis of the first roller 18 when the piston is in the
 5 centre of its stroke. Therefore the piston head 7 does not follow pure radial motion
   with respect to the track 1la, 1lb.     By offsetting the piston from the track in this
   manner the efficiency with which power is transferred from the piston to the track
   and/or vice versa may be maximised. The geometry of the track can also be optimised
   while avoiding fouling of the piston on the track.
10 In operation of the engine, the first roller 18 bears against and rolls along the outer
   cam surfaces 12a, 12b of the track 11a, 1Ib and the second roller 20 bears against and
   rolls along the inner cam surfaces 13a, 13b of the track 11 a, 1 lb. As the track 1 la 1 lb
   rotates within the engine 1, the piston head 7 moves within its cylinder sleeve 8 in
   accordance with the path shape of the track. During some portions of the operating
15 cycle the piston is driven by the track, for example during intake, compression and
   exhaust strokes. During some portions of the operating cycle the track is driven by the
   piston such that work can be extracted from the output shaft 9, for example during
   power strokes. Since the path shape of the track may be given any desired shape, the
   piston is not constrained to following simple harmonic motion as in most conventional
20 internal combustion engines but can instead have any desired displacement profile.
   The displacement profile may, for example, include multiple different local top dead
   centre positions at different heights and/or multiple different bottom dead centre
   positions at different heights. As can be seen from figure 3, the track 11 a, 1 lb is
   shaped such that the piston completes 6 strokes for every output shaft revolution
25 (including a steam cycle in addition to intake, compression, power and exhaust
   strokes) and experiences different top dead centre positions and different bottom dead
   centre positions at different heights.
   As can be seen from figure 4, the second piston arrangement 5b comprises a piston
   coupled to the same track 1la, 1 lb as the first piston arrangement 5a by a similar
30 bearing arrangement. The pistons of the first and second piston arrangements 5a, 5b
   are operated 180 degrees out of phase with each other. The third and fourth piston
   arrangements 5c, 5d respectively comprise pistons coupled to a similar track

                                              27
   comprising two track portions 1 Ic, I1d which are non-rotatably mounted to the output
   shaft 9. The timings of the piston arrangements 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d are set to substantially
   cancel engine vibration.    In alternative embodiments an engine may comprise any
   number of tracks (for example 1, 2, 3 or more) and may have any number of piston
 5 arrangements (for example 1, 2, 3 or more) operated by each track.
   In the embodiment described above the track comprises first and second track portions
    Slla, 11 b each providing an upper cam surface and a lower cam surface. The piston
   has a first roller 18 which engages the upper surfaces of both track portions, a second
   roller 20 which engages the lower surfaces of both track portions, and a stabilising
10 element extending between the first and second track portions (see figure 10a).
   However, the skilled person will appreciate that other track/roller arrangements are
   possible, such as those shown in figures 10 b to 10d.        For example, the first and
   second rollers may each be replaced by two separate rollers such that first and second
   rollers 1018a, 1020a respectively engage the upper and lower surfaces of a first track
15 portion 1011 a and third and fourth rollers 1018b, 1020b respectively engage the upper
   and lower surfaces of a second track portion 1011b, a stabilising element 1015
   extending between the first and second track portions (see figure 10b). The rollers
   1018a, 1018b, 1020a, 1020b may each extend into the body of the piston head and/or
   into the body of the stabilising element, or alternatively may each be located outside
20 the body of the piston head and/or into the body of the stabilising element but be
   constrained between a curved bearing surface and the track. In an alternative example
   a first roller 2018 extends between two parallel stabilising portions 2015a, 2015b and
   engages an upper surface of a single track portion 2011 while a further pair of rollers
   2020a, 2020b engages a corresponding pair of lower cam surfaces provided on the
25 same track portion (figure 10c).    In another alternative example only a single track
   portion 3011 may be provided on a single side of a stabilising element 3015 with first
   and second rollers 3018, 3020 respectively engaging upper and lower cam surfaces of
   the track 3011 (see figure 10d). In this case a locating element may engage the side of
   the stabilising element facing away from the track 3011 to stabilise the piston.
30 In the embodiments described above the track comprises rigid track sections providing
   continuous annular cam surfaces. In an alternative embodiment the track may include
   at least one moving part which forms a part of the cam surface and which moves with

                                               28
   respect to the rest of the track. For example, figure 11 illustrates a track 100 having a
   bearing or roller 101 attached thereto, the roller having an outer radial surface 102
   which forms a part of the cam surface 103 of the track. The roller 101 is located at a
   local maximum of the track which corresponds to a top dead centre position of a
 5 piston operated by the track 100, the piston having a follower which runs along the
   cam surface 103. As the follower moves over the outer radial surface 102 of the roller
   101, the roller 101 rotates in the direction of movement of the piston with respect to
   the track to prevent or reduce slip between the follower and the cam surface 103. The
   roller 101 may be able to rotate through 360 degrees or may alternatively be
10 constrained to a smaller angle of rotation. The roller may be passively driven by
   motion of the follower over the roller or alternatively may be actively driven, for
   example by a motor.
   In the embodiments described above the track is a radial track which controls motion
   of the piston via inner and outer radial surfaces. In an alternative embodiment a piston
15 207 may be coupled to an annular track 211a, 211b with cam surfaces 212a, 212b,
   213a, 213b facing in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation 209a of the track, for
   example as shown in figure 12. Figure 12 shows an annular track comprising first and
   second track portions 211 a, 21 lb each having an edge surface 214a, 214b engaging
   opposite sides of a stabilising element of the piston 207. The track portions 211 a,
20 21 lb are arranged concentrically such that an annular gap is formed between the edge
   surfaces 214a, 214b of the inner and outer track portions, as shown in figure 13a taken
   from the direction of the axis of rotation 209a. The stabilising element 215 of the
   piston 207 has a curved shape when viewed from a direction parallel to the axis of
   rotation of the track corresponding to the shape of the annular gap formed between the
25 edge surfaces 214a, 214b, as shown in figure 13b (in which the radius of curvature
   and thickness of the stabilising element have been exaggerated for illustrative
   purposes).
   The central axis of the piston may be offset from the axis of rotation of the track (for
   example if the axis of rotation of the track lies in the plane of the page in figure 12
30 then the central axis of the piston is angled out of the page) for example to allow the
   efficiency of power transfer from the piston to the track and vice-versa to be
   maximised.

                                               29
   Where the track is annular, the surface of the rollers 218, 220 may each have a tapered
   shape such that their inner-most end 218a, 220a with respect to the axis of rotation of
   the track has a smaller diameter than the outer-most end 218a, 220a, as illustrated in
   figure 14. The outer-most end of the roller therefore has a greater circumference and
 5 will roll over a longer distance for each revolution of the roller compared to the inner
   most end. In this way the tapered rollers may account for the difference in path length
   between the radially inner-most part of the track and the radially outer-most part of the
   cam surfaces of the track.
   In the embodiments described above the stabilising element is attached directly to the
10 piston head and the first roller bears against the underside of the piston head.       In
   alternative embodiments the stabilising element may be connected to the piston head
   via an intermediate component such as a con-rod, which may be rigidly attached to the
   piston head and to the stabilising element or alternatively pivotally attached to the
   piston head and to the stabilising element.
15 In the embodiments described above the roller is mounted to the piston on a curved
   bearing surface which engages the outer radial surface of the roller and extends a
   portion of the distance around its outer circumference. Additionally (or alternatively)
   in other embodiments a roller 318a may be mounted to a piston 307 on a curved
   bearing surface which engages an inner radial surface of the roller, for example as
20 shown in figure 15a. In an alternative embodiment shown in figures 15a and 15b a
   first roller 318a is mounted to the piston 307 via a curved bearing surface provided on
   a shoe 319a which extends outwardly from a stabilising element 315 of the piston into
   the hollow centre of the roller 318a and engages the radial inner surface of the roller.
   The first roller 318a is also mounted on the piston 307 via a curved bearing surface
25 provided on the underside of the piston head which engages the radial outer surface of
   the roller. The roller 318a transfers load between the piston 307 and a track portion
   311 a via both curved bearing surfaces. As can be seen from figure 15a, the shoe 319a
   is offset to one side of the piston 307 so that the centre of the contact patch between
   the roller and the shoe is aligned with the direction of maximum loading. The roller
30 318a has radially inwardly extending flanges located on opposite sides of the shoe
   319a for retaining the roller axially on the shoe, as shown in figure 15b. The shoe
   may deliver oil to the inner radial surface of the roller from an oil pick-up located on

                                               30
   the contact surface of the stabilising element. A similar roller arrangement is provided
   on the opposite side of the stabilising element with roller 318b mounted on a shoe
   319b and running on a track portion 311b. Similar roller arrangements 320a/321a and
   320b/321b are also provided on the opposite side of the track to move the piston 307
 5 in the opposite direction. In other embodiments the rollers may engage the piston via
   their radial inner surfaces only so that the roller is mounted on the shoe only and
   transfers load between the piston and the track only via the shoe.
   The engine is assembled by the following steps. The method recited below does not
   include all steps required to assemble all of the components forming part of the engine
10 but has instead been reduced to the major steps for assembling the power transfer
   mechanism and casing for clarity:
            a) Press bearing A into a recess formed in casing element 4b and insert shaft 9
   through a hole formed through casing element 4b (figures 16a and 16b).
            b) Feed track portion 1lb over shaft 9 and bring it into engagement with
15 bearing A (figure 16c).
            c) Couple the piston 80 to the track portion 1lb by engaging the outer surface
   12b with the upper roller 18 and the inner surface 13b with the lower roller 20 and
   feed cylinder sleeve 8 over the piston head (figures 16d and 16e). Similarly couple
   the opposed piston of the second piston arrangement to the track portion 11 b.
20          d) Attach the locating elements 32, 33 to the casing element 4b (figure 16f),
   with oil delivery devices located in their respective slots (one on each side of each
   stabilising element).
            e) Feed a spacer element S (visible adjacent the track portion 1lb in figure 6b)
   over shaft 9 and then feed track portion 11 a over the shaft and bring it into
25 engagement with the spacer element (figure 16g).
            f) Press bearing B (visible below the track portion 12a in figure 4) into casing
   element 4c and then feed casing element 4c over shaft 9 to bring the bearing B into
   engagement with the track portion 11 a (figure 16h).

                                              31
           g) Perform equivalent steps to couple the piston arrangements 5c and 5d to
   shaft 9 and bring casing element 4a into place (figure 16i).
           h) Attach casing elements 4a, 4b and 4c together with fasteners extending
   through the casing (figure 16j).
 5 The casing element 4b which lies between the tracks 1la, 11 b and Ic, I1d is brought
   into place around the shaft 9 before both of the tracks and their respective pistons have
   been coupled to the shaft. The casing elements 4b and 4c are brought together after
   the piston assemblies 5a and 5b have been coupled to the shaft 9, and the casing
   elements 4a and 4b are brought together after the piston assemblies 5c and 5d have
10 been coupled to the shaft 9.
   Although the invention has been described above with reference to one or more
   preferred embodiments, it will be appreciated that various changes or modifications
   may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the
   appended claims.

                                            32
                                         Claims
   1. A piston arrangement including a piston moveable within a cylinder and a
      track having a cam surface which is adapted to move relative to the cylinder;
      wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a bearing which runs on the cam
 5    surface; wherein the bearing has a roller and a curved bearing surface on which
      the roller is rotatably mounted such that the roller is held captive between the
      cam surface and the bearing surface; wherein the bearing surface engages the
      roller via a contact patch which extends only a portion of the distance around
      the circumference of the roller.
10 2. A piston arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the curved bearing surface
      engages an inner radial surface of the roller.
   3. A piston arrangement according to claim 2, wherein the curved bearing surface
      is provided on a shoe which extends into a hollow centre of the roller.
   4. A piston arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the shoe comprises a
15    lubricant outlet and/or a lubricant pick-up for supplying a lubricant to the inner
      radial surface of the roller and/or removing lubricant from the inner radial
      surface of the roller.
   5. A piston arrangement according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the roller has a
      radially inwardly extending flange located to the side of the shoe.
20 6. A piston arrangement according to any of claims 3 to 5, wherein the contact
      patch between the curved bearing surface and the inner radial surface of the
      roller extends through an angle of less than 180 degrees.
   7. A piston arrangement according to any of claims 3 to 6 wherein the contact
      patch between the curved bearing surface and the inner radial surface of the
25    roller is offset to one side of a plane passing through the central axis of rotation
      of the roller and aligned with the direction of movement of the piston within
      the cylinder.

                                             33
   8. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       curved bearing surface engages an outer radial surface of the roller.
   9. A piston arrangement according to claim 8, wherein the piston has a head with
       a working face; wherein the curved bearing surface is provided on a reverse
 5     side of the piston head.
   10. A piston arrangement according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the curved bearing
       surface engaging the outer radial surface of the roller comprises a lubricant
       outlet and/or a lubricant pick-up.
   11. A piston arrangement according to any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the roller
10     has an axial end face; wherein a retaining component is removably attached to
       the piston, the retaining component being located at the axial end face of the
       roller to prevent the roller from moving with respect to the piston in a direction
       aligned with its rotational axis beyond the retaining component
   12. A piston arrangement according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the contact
15     patch between the curved bearing surface and the outer radial surface of the
       roller extends through an angle of between 120 degrees and 330 degrees
   13. A piston arrangement according to any of claims 8 to 12, wherein the contact
       patch between the curved bearing surface and the outer radial surface of the
       roller is offset to one side of a plane passing through the central axis of rotation
20     of the roller and aligned with the direction of movement of the piston within
       the cylinder.
   14. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       cam surface is shaped such that, as the track moves relative to the cylinder, the
       piston head moves in reciprocating motion within the cylinder in accordance
25     with the path of the cam surface.
   15. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein at
       least a portion of the cam surface is provided with a coating or surface
       treatment.

                                            34
   16. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       track forms a continuous loop and rotates relative to the cylinder about an axis
       of rotation, and wherein the cam surface forms a continuous surface extending
       around the loop.
 5 17. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       cylinder remains fixed while the track moves relative to the cylinder.
   18. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       roller comprises a protrusion extending beyond its outer radial surface around
       its circumference which engages the track to prevent the roller from moving
10     relative to the piston in a direction aligned with the rotational axis of the roller
       and/or wherein the track comprises a protrusion extending beyond the cam
       surface around its circumference which engages the roller to prevent the roller
       from moving relative to the piston in a direction aligned with the rotational
       axis of the roller a recess or chamfer or protrusion in its outer radial surface
15     extending     around   its  circumference;    wherein    the  track  comprises     a
       corresponding protrusion or recess or chamfer which engages the recess or
       chamfer or protrusion of the roller to prevent to roller from moving relative to
       the piston in a direction aligned with its rotational axis.
   19. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
20     contact patch is part cylindrical.
   20. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       track further comprises a second cam surface facing in the opposite direction
       to the first cam surface; wherein the piston arrangement further comprises a
       second bearing having a roller and a curved bearing surface on which the roller
25     is rotatably mounted such that the roller is held captive between the second
       cam surface and the bearing surface; wherein the bearing surface engages the
       roller via a contact patch which extends only a portion of the distance around
       the circumference of the roller.

                                             35
   21. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       track comprises first and second track portions located on opposite sides of the
       piston, each track portion providing a respective cam surface.
   22. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
 5     track is a radial track with the cam surface arranged as inner radial or outer
       radial surface with respect to an axis of rotation of the track relative to the
       cylinder.
   23. A piston arrangement according to claim 22, wherein the cylinder has a central
       axis, wherein the cylinder axis does not pass through the axis of rotation of the
10     track relative to the cylinder.
   24. A piston arrangement according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
       track is an annular track with the cam surface arranged facing in a direction
       parallel to an axis of rotation of the track relative to the cylinder.
   25. A piston arrangement according to claim 24, wherein the cylinder has a central
15     axis, wherein the cylinder axis is not parallel to the axis of rotation of the track
       relative to the cylinder.
   26. A piston arrangement according to claim 24 or 25, wherein the roller
       comprises a tapered shape such that its diameter at a radially inner-most edge
       of the cam surface is smaller than its diameter at a radially outer-most edge of
20     the cam surface.
   27. An internal combustion engine comprising a piston operated by a bearing
       arrangement according to any of the preceding claims.
   28. A piston arrangement including a piston moveable within a cylinder and a
       track having a cam surface which is adapted to move relative to the cylinder;
25     wherein the piston is coupled to the track by a bearing which runs on the cam
       surface; wherein the bearing comprises a roller and a curved bearing surface;
       wherein the roller has a radial outer surface which runs on the cam surface;
       wherein the curved bearing surface engages an outer redial surface of the roller
       such that the roller is held captive between the bearing surface and the cam

                                      36
  surface; wherein the bearing surface engages the roller via a contact patch
  which extends only a portion of the distance around the circumference of the
  roller such that a portion of the radial outer surface of the roller is exposed so
  that it can run on the cam surface.
5

                                               <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                     <U+2706><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271F>
                  <U+271E>
                                                      <U+270E>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                      <U+270C><U+261E>
                                                      <U+261B>
                      <U+2721><U+2720>
                           <U+2720><U+271D>
                                <U+2720><U+2706>
                                          <U+271D><U+260E>

<removed-date>
                                                              <U+2702> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                              <U+2701>
                                      <U+2706>
                                  <U+2720>
                          <U+271D>
                      <U+2720>
                  <U+2721>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                               <U+261B>
              <U+271F>
                                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+2701>
                              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                         <U+271D>
                                         <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                             <U+2702>
                                             <U+2701>
                                                 <U+2701>
                                                 <U+270D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271F>                                  <U+270C>
                                                 <U+261E>
                                                 <U+261B>
                  <U+2706>                  <U+2704>
                                     <U+2701>
                  <U+2701>
                      <U+2721>
                          <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                      <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                                 <U+271D><U+271E>
               <U+270C><U+270D>                                                       <U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                  <U+271F><U+271F><U+270E>
                                                                  <U+271F><U+271F><U+270D>
                         <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>                         <U+2713>
                                                            <U+271F><U+261E><U+271E>
                                             <U+2711>        <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>
              <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                       <U+2712>
                         <U+271F><U+2721><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                 <U+271D>
                    <U+270C><U+271E>                                                       <U+270C><U+261B>
                                                  <U+271F><U+2720>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

<removed-date>
                                  <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2706>
                  <U+271E>
                  <U+271F>
                                         <U+2706>
                                         <U+260E>
                                                 <U+2702>
              <U+2706>                                  <U+2701>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271F>                                  <U+270D>
                                                 <U+270C>
                                                 <U+261E>
                                                 <U+261B>
                              <U+260E>
                      <U+2704>
                                             <U+2704>
                                             <U+2701>
                          <U+2704>
                          <U+2706>

<removed-date>
                                                      <U+2704> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                               <U+2706>
                                                               <U+260E>
                              <U+271D>
                              <U+260E>
                              <U+271F>
                  <U+2706>                                                    <U+2701>
              <U+2720>
                  <U+271F>                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2704>
                          <U+271F>
                          <U+271F>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                      <U+271F>                <U+271F>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                   <U+2701>
                                  <U+2704>
                                              <U+2706>
                                              <U+2704>

<removed-date>
                              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                     <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+270C><U+2720>
                         <U+271F><U+270F>                    <U+271F><U+270C>
                                                                <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                          <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
                                                    <U+271F><U+2721><U+271E>
                                         <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                        <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+2720>
                   <U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+270F>                    <U+271F><U+270C>
                                                    <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>
                                    <U+2711>             <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
                                            <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2701>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                         <U+2721><U+2721>
                              <U+2704>
                  <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                   <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C>              <U+271F><U+270F>     <U+271F><U+270C>
              <U+2702><U+2720>
                                    <U+2721><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271E>      <U+2721><U+270C>           <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>       <U+2702>   <U+271F>
                                       <U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
                              <U+260E>               <U+271F><U+2701>
                     <U+271F><U+2704>      <U+2721><U+2720>   <U+271F><U+2704>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702><U+2702>

                               <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+2720>
                                   <U+2704>   <U+271E>
                                                        <U+2704>
              <U+2721><U+2721>                                   <U+2721><U+2721>
                                                   <U+271F><U+270F>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>                                <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                    <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>                    <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>
                          <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2720>
                                           <U+2721><U+2720>
                                           <U+271F><U+2701>
                              <U+271F><U+2704>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702><U+2701>

                                <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+2720>
                                        <U+2704>   <U+271E>
                                                            <U+2704>
              <U+2721><U+2721>                                       <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>                                     <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                    <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>             <U+271F>           <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>
                          <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+2702>
                                                <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                <U+271F><U+2701>
                              <U+271F><U+2704>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702>

                               <U+2702> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                <U+2704>
                          <U+2721><U+2721>
                <U+271F><U+270F>
              <U+2702><U+2720>
                                          <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
                                 <U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>     <U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+2702> <U+271E>               <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>
                                          <U+271F><U+270C>
                                        <U+271F><U+2701>
                          <U+2721><U+2720>
                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702>

                                   <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                 <U+2704>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                         <U+271F><U+271D><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>            <U+271F><U+270C>
                                      <U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
               <U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
                             <U+2721><U+271F><U+261B>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702>

                         <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+2701>
              <U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>
                    <U+2702>           <U+2702><U+2720>        <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
                          <U+271F><U+270C>
                                     <U+2702><U+271F>
                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

                                         <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    <U+260E><U+260E>
                             <U+2701>
                                 <U+271E>
                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                             <U+270C><U+261E>
                                                <U+260E>                            <U+261B>
                   <U+2706><U+260E>                <U+2704>
                                                <U+2701>
                   <U+260E>    <U+2706><U+271E>
                                     <U+2701>
                        <U+260E>                           <U+271F>
                                                    <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                <U+2704>
                                                            <U+2701>

                        <U+2704> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+270C><U+261E>
                                      <U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+270C>                 <U+270C><U+271F>
                            <U+270C><U+2702>
                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

                                         <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                            <U+271F><U+270F>
                                    <U+271F><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>        <U+2721><U+2720>           <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+270F><U+261B>
                                                              <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C>
                                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>
                                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
                                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C><U+271E>                              <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B>
                 <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270F>
                <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>                           <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>
                                <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271F>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2702><U+2720><U+271F><U+270F>
                                                <U+2702><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C>
                                                                     <U+2702><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                     <U+2702><U+2720><U+271F><U+271F>
                                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                          <U+271F><U+2720><U+2702>
             <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                                    <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
       <U+271F><U+2720><U+2720>

                                          <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>                                        <U+2721><U+2720><U+271D><U+271E>
                           <U+2721><U+2720><U+2704>
                                                          <U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-apn>    <U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>               <U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>                     <U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+271E>             <U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>
                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                          <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271E>
                                                                 <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                 <U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E>               <U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
                     <U+2721><U+2720><U+2704>
                     <U+2721><U+271F><U+270C>                         <U+2721><U+2720><U+271D><U+271E>
                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2702>   <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                      <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>
                                               <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271E>
<removed-apn>           <U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>        <U+2721><U+271F><U+270C>    <U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                  <U+2721><U+271F><U+270F>
              <U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+261B>                                <U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+271E>
               <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>                             <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720><U+271E>
                               <U+2721><U+2721><U+2720>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

                                      <U+2702> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                  <U+271D>         <U+271D>                                 <U+271D><U+271F>
                  <U+271F><U+260E>        <U+271F><U+260E>
                            <U+260E>
                                                              <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                    <U+271D><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+271F><U+260E>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
              <U+260E>                                                                   <U+270D>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+270C><U+261E>
                                                                        <U+2706>         <U+261B>
                                                                        <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                    <U+2706><U+271F>
                                                    <U+271F><U+260E>
                  <U+2706>         <U+2706>                                 <U+2706><U+271F>
                  <U+271F><U+260E>        <U+271F><U+260E>
                            <U+260E>
                                                              <U+271E><U+260E>
                                 <U+2706>                                 <U+2706>
                                 <U+271F><U+260E>                                <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                         <U+2706><U+271F>
                                                         <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                             <U+2701>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2704>
                                               <U+271F><U+260E>
                                               <U+2701>
                                                                             <U+270D>
                                        <U+2706>                                    <U+270C><U+261E>
                                        <U+271F><U+260E>
                                        <U+260E>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                       <U+2706><U+271F>
                       <U+271F><U+260E>

<removed-date>
              <U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                            <U+261E><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                            <U+261E><U+261B>
                        <U+2713>
                        <U+271D>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2701>

<removed-date>
                    <U+2702>    <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                    <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>                  <U+261E><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+271D>
                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>
                   <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>                  <U+261E><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+271E>
                                              <U+270C><U+261B>
                                <U+271D>
                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                        <U+2702>    <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                             <U+261E><U+261B>
                            <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+271E>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>            <U+2701>
                                             <U+261E><U+261B>
                                    <U+2702><U+2702>
                              <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+270F>
                   <U+270C><U+2720>
                                         <U+271D>
                                    <U+2702><U+2721>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>             <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                      <U+2702>    <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                          <U+271F><U+271F><U+271E>     <U+2702><U+2702>
                                               <U+261E><U+261B>
                  <U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+270C><U+2720>                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>   <U+2721>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                              <U+261E><U+261B>
                                                   <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+270F>
                                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                                               <U+261E><U+270D>
                                                    <U+261E><U+261B>
                                                         <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                              <U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+271E>                                              <U+270C><U+261B>
                                   <U+271D>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>
                                                <U+261E><U+270D>
                                                     <U+261E><U+261B>
                                                          <U+261E><U+271E>
               <U+270C><U+270D>
               <U+270C><U+271E>
                              <U+271F><U+2720>           <U+271D>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>             <U+2701>

