                                            Abstract
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split
product C4d for use in treating an inflammatory condition, such as graft rejection, graft versus
host disease, an autoimmune disease or atopy. The C4d to be used may be a multimer.
Accordingly, also C4d multimers and their use in medicine, like the treatment of inflammatory
conditions, is provided. Furthermore, the present invention provides a protein complex
comprising C4d interacting with its ILT4 receptor. This protein complex may be used in
screening methods. Also antibodies specifically binding to the C4d multimer or the C4d/ILT4
protein complex are subject of the present invention.

                                                   1
         Complement split product C4d for the treatment of inflammatory conditions
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013285537, the entire
content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split
product C4d for use in treating an inflammatory condition, such as graft rejection, graft versus
host disease, autoimmune disease, or atopy. The C4d to be used may be a multimer.
Accordingly, also C4d multimers and their use in medicine, like the treatment of inflammatory
conditions, are provided. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a protein complex
comprising C4d interacting with its ILT4 receptor. This protein complex may be used in
screening methods, like drug screening methods. Also antibodies specifically binding to the C4d
multimer or the C4d/ILT4-protein complex are subject of the present invention.
In addition to defence against invading pathogens the complement system crucially contributes
to host homeostasis by clearing circulating immune complexes (ICs) from blood. The
complement system as a potentially harmful effector system is tightly regulated leading to the
generation of complement split products (CSPs) such as C4d. Complement component C4 plays
a key role in both the classical and the lectin pathways of complement activation. C4 is cleaved
by activated Cls or MASP2. Activation of Cls from its zymogen form is a consequence of the
binding of the Clq moiety of the Clqr2s 2 complex to the Fc arrays of ICs, or directly to
apoptotic cellular material or some pathogen surfaces. Similarly, zymogen MASP2 exists in
complex with mannose binding lectin (MBL) or ficolins and becomes activated when MBL or
ficolin bind to terminal mannoses or acetylated entities on invading pathogens. A portion of the
Cls- or MASP2-cleaved C4 covalently attaches to target antigen through its highly reactive
intrinsic thioester bond. This is pivotal for the generation of the C3 (C4b2a) and the C5
(C4b2a3b) convertases of the classical and lectin pathways of complement activation-       13 . These
convertases mediate opsonisation and formation of the terminal lytic complex required for the
elimination of "non-self"/"dangerous" target cells. By contrast, "self"/"non-dangerous" tissues
are protected from detrimental complement activation by membrane-bound and soluble
regulator proteins, which act by disrupting convertases either through their decay-dissociation
activities or through their factor I cofactor activities that lead to the enzymatic cleavage of C4b
and C3b. This process yields the complement degradation products C4d, iC3b, C3dg and C3d,

                                                   2
all of which remain covalently bound to the target surface. Except for C4d these molecules are
known to act as opsonins mediating specific interaction between target structures and
complement receptors. Although evidence of C4d-deposition on lymphocytes and erythrocytes
correlates with SLE-activity 1 , 2 and its deposition in renal allografts is an established marker of
antibody-mediated rejection (AMR)3' 14' 11, C4d itself is an orphan ligand with no attributed
function per se.
Thus, the technical problem underlying the present invention is the provision of a medical
application of C4d in the treatment of a disease or disorder.
The technical problem is solved by provision of the embodiments characterized in the claims.
Accordingly, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
complement split product C4d for use in treating an inflammatory condition.
The present invention solves the above identified technical problem since, as documented herein
below and in the appended examples, it was surprisingly found that C4d is capable of triggering
an anti-inflammatory response (likewise C4d is capable of down-regulating a pro-inflammatory
response) and can, therefore, be used in the treatment of an inflammatory condition. Moreover,
it was found that C4d binds to ILT4. This is the first identification of a medical use of C4d and
the first identification of a receptor for C4d.
Figure 4 shows that C4d is capable of decreasing TNF-aand IL -6 production in monocytes.
TNFand IL6 are pro -inflammatory cytokines and known markers for inflammatory conditions.
Thus, the appended data show that C4d is, by decreasing TNF-wnd IL -6 production, capable of
downregulating a pro-inflammatory response. Therefore, the therapeutic use of C4d is beneficial
in the treatment of an inflammatory condition, such as graft rejection, graft versus host disease,
an autoimmune disease, or atopy.
The finding that C4d is capable of downregulating a pro-inflammatory response is unexpected,
since C4d is regarded in the art as a mere by-product of C4 processing during complement
activation, which may, at most, be useful as marker for antibody mediated rejection or antibody
mediated autoimmune disorders; for a review see Murata (2009), Transplanation Reviews 23,
139-150 or Botto (2009), Mol Immunology 46, 2774-2783. The use of C4d as marker for

                                                3
inflammatory diseases is also described in Haas (2009), J Am Soc Nephrol 20, 197-204, US-Al
2005/0042602 and US-B2 7,361,517. JP-A 02293665 discloses the use of C4d as marker for
renal disease in urine and WO 2007/118983 discloses that C4d can be used to analyze the risk of
transplant rejection. However, none of these documents attributes a biological function to C4d
and, moreover, up to date no receptors binding to C4d have been identified. Therefore, the
present finding that C4d binds to the receptor ILT4 and triggers an anti-inflammatory response
(or likewise down-regulates a pro-inflammatory response) was unexpected. The above is in line
with the conventional view that C4d is a mere by-product of complement activation, which has
no biological activity of its own; see below.
C4 is activated by enzymatic cleavage, whereby its split products C4b and iC4b are formed.
Together with C2-split product C2a, C4b forms the C3 convertase of the classical and the lectin
pathway of complement activation (C4b2a), which contribute to the stimulation of an
inflammatory response (reflected e.g. in the production of proinflammatory cytokines, such as
TNF-gIL -6, IL-i, and IL-8). Accordingly, C4b and other complement compounds involved in
the complement activation have been proposed in the art for stimulating the immune system. For
example, WO 96/17625 describes the C3d-CD21 interaction and proposes the use of C3d for the
modulation of the immune response. WO 02/33081 describes the use of C3d for immunization
and for stimulating the immune response. In the same vein, WO 02/10199 describes C3b/C4b
peptides and proposes their use in medicine. Also agonists thereof for the treatment of
inflammatory diseases are described therein. Vice versa, the prior art also described the use of
antagonists of C3b/C4b for the inhibition of the immune response. For example, WO 98/45430
describes that soluble complement receptor sCRI binds to and antagonizes C4b and C3b and
can therefore be used for inhibiting the immune response. WO 95/08343 proposes the use of
short or modified analogues of complement proteins, like C4b. These analogues are said to have
decreased activity compared to their natural forms; therefore, the use of such analogues (e.g. as
competitive inhibitors) is said to be useful for complement inhibition, and hence, for the
treatment of autoimmune diseases or for preventing xenograft rejection. Also WO 02/10388
describes C3d/C4b for stimulating the immune response and, vice versa, the use of antagonists
for suppression of the immune system.
Thus, the above prior art documents show that compounds of the complement system, especially
C3d and C4b, have been disclosed in the art for stimulating the immune response (or vice versa,
antagonists of C3d or C4b for inhibiting the immune response). The prior art has, however, not

                                                 4
proposed that the split product C4d derived from C4b (which is, in turn, derived from C4) could
have any potential effect on the modulation of the immune response. The following relates more
specifically to the split product C4d derived from C4b.
The split product C4b, which is covalently bound to cells, can be further cleaved into an
enzymatically inactive form, termed "inactive C4b" or "iC4b" (it is termed "inactive", because it
not able to function as part of the C3 convertase). "iC4b" can be further cleaved, which results
in the surface-bound C4d. C4d was identified in the art as a marker for antibody-mediated
rejection (AMR), especially in renal and cardiac transplants. C4d is known to be a reliable
marker for complement activation because it covalently binds to tissue close to the site of
activation, and the covalent bond does not break spontaneously. However, Murata (loc. cit.)
notes that no biological function has been attributed to C4d and no receptors have been
identified.
In the present invention it has been surprisingly found that C4d is not merely an end-product or
by-product of the complement activation. To the contrary, for the first time a receptor of C4d
has been identified demonstrating that C4d has indeed a biological activity: it is shown herein
that C4d triggers an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise down-regulates a pro-inflammatory
response).
Without being bound by theory, it is believed that the binding of C4d to ILT4 (as shown herein)
is beneficial in downregulating a pro-inflammatory response. As illustrated below, ILT4 is
known to be involved in the modulation of the immune response (especially inhibition of the
immune response). Also for this reason, it may be that C4d downregulates a pro-inflammatory
response upon binding to and activating ILT4. This is described in more detail in the following.
The ILT4 receptor is known in the art to be involved in the modulation of the immune response.
For example, PIR-B deficient mice (PIR-B is the murine ortholog of ILT-4) showed excessive
autoantibody production and autoimmunity; see Kubo (2009) J Exp Med 206, 1971-1982.
Ristich (2007) reports that interaction between ILT4-receptor and HLA-G (a nonclassical major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule) may prevent transplant rejection; see Ristich
(2007), Human Immunology 68, 264-271. Similarly, WO 2009/100135 discloses that HLA-G
binds to ILT-4 and thereby induces the ILT-4 mediated inhibitory signaling. According to WO
2009/100135 microparticles comprising an HLA-G dimer can therefore be used to treat

                                                 5
inflammatory diseases or disorders. Thus, it was known in the art that triggering of ILT-4 may
induce an anti-inflammatory response. However, none of these publications propose that C4d
might bind to ILT4, let alone that C4d might induce an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise
that C4d migh down-regulate a pro-inflammatory response) by potentially binding to ILT4.
Deposition of C4d on blood cells has been associated with disease activity in autoimmune
syndromes like systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE),      2, and presence of C4d in renal3 allografts
is an established marker of antibody-mediated rejection. However, to date no physiologic
function has been ascribed to C4d. Herein, the identification of Immunoglobulin-Like Transcript
4 (ILT4) and its close relative ILT5 antigenic variant 2 (ILT5v2) as novel cellular receptors for
C4d is disclosed. Furthermore, it is shown that ILT4 and ILT5v2 also bind CSPs C3d, C4b, C3b
and iC3b. It is demonstrated that interaction of these CSPs with ILT4, a well-known negative
immune regulator4 -7 , confers inhibitory activity on monocytes activated ex-vivo. While C4b,
C3b, iC3b and C3d are known to mediate a variety of effector functions via established
complement receptors, e.g. enhanced clearance of CSP-opsonised particles, immune cell
activation and the induction of humoral immune responses, herein evidence for a novel
regulatory activity of these molecules through interaction with ILT4 is provided. Thus, the
herein presented findings reveal a thus far unknown regulatory mechanism that might contribute
to host homeostatic regulation and the maintenance of self-tolerance. As mentioned, C4b, C3b,
iC3b and C3d bind to various receptors which are primarily involved in complement activation.
In contrast to C4b, C3b, iC3b and C3d, C4d specifically interacts with ILT4 and ILT5v2, but not
with conventional complement receptors. Thus, C4d is the only split product derived from C4
during complement activation that specifically binds to ILT4. Without being bound by theory, it
is shown that the binding of C4d to ILT4 downregulates a pro-inflammatory stimulus.
These findings provide the basis for the herein provided novel therapies for the treatment of a
variety of inflammatory conditions such as autoimmune diseases, allograft rejection or atopic
diseases. As described further below, the herein provided medical use of C4d can be further
assessed in pre-clinical in-vivo models, since it has been found that C4d, C3b and iC3b also
interact with PIR-B, the murine ortholog of ILT4. Thus, the medical use of C4d could be
confirmed in C4d transgenic animals. As pointed out above, nothing in the prior art provided a
hint that C4d might be useful in the treatment of inflammatory conditions.

                                                 6
As mentioned, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
complement split product C4d for use in treating an inflammatory condition. The terms
"inflammatory condition", "disorder associated with immune-mediated inflammation" or
"conditionassociated with an excessive immune response" are synonyms and are accordingly
used interchangeably herein.
The term "C4d" used herein refers primarily to (a) polypeptide(s) having a biological activity
specific for C4d polypeptides like the polypeptides shown in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d-A,
also known as C4Ad) (UniProtKB POCOL4, "C4Ad": AA 957-1336) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform
C4d-B, also known as C4Bd) (UniProtKB POCOL5, "C4Bd": AA 957-1336). The terms
"complement split product C4d-A", "C4d-A", "complement split product C4Ad" and "C4Ad"
and the like as well as grammatical variants thereof can be used interchangeably herein. The
terms "complement split product C4d-B", "C4d-B", "complement split product C4Bd" and
"C4Bd" and the like as well as grammatical variants thereof can be used interchangeably herein.
The polypeptides to be used in accordance with the present invention are, for example, capable
of       triggering/inducing/stimulating      an        anti-inflammatory      response      (i.e.
triggering/inducing/stimulating an anti-inflammatory response is an exemplary biological
activity of the "C4d" polypeptides to be used herein). Preferably, the polypeptides to be used in
accordance with the present invention are capable of downregulating a pro-inflammatory
response (i.e. downregulating a pro-inflammatory response is a biological activity of the "C4d"
polypeptides to be used herein). As described herein and shown in the appended example, C4d
polypeptides are capable of downregulating a pro-inflammatory response as they reduce
intracellular calcium-flux or the production of inflammatory cytokines, like TNF-aor IL -6.
Whether a polypeptide has this capacity can be tested by routine procedures exemplified in the
appended     example.    A "pro-inflammatory       response"    is indicative of "inflammatory
condition"/"disorders associated with immune-mediated inflammation" as described and defined
herein. Thus, the following assays can also be used to confirm that the C4d to be used herein has
a therapeutic effect in an "inflammatory condition"/"disorder associated with immune-mediated
inflammation".
The term "biological activity" refers to triggering/inducing/stimulating an anti-inflammatory
response. The term "biological activity" refers to the capacity to bind ILT4. The term
"biological activity" refers preferably to the downregulation of a pro-inflammatory response.
The activity to downregulate a pro-inflammatory response can, for example, be assessed by the

                                                 7
capacity to reduce intracellular calcium-flux. The activity to downregulate a pro-inflammatory
response can, for example, be assessed by the capacity to reduce the level (or production) of
inflammatory cytokines, like TNF-cor IL -6, for example in an "inflammatory model system".
Such model systems are well known in the art. Exemplary "inflammatory model systems" are,
for example, murine models of systemic lupus erythematosus as described in "Murine models of
systemic lupus erythematosus". - Perry D et al., J Biomed Biotechnol. 2011;2011:271694),
murine models of erosive arthritis and/or rheumatoid arthritis as described in "Antiinflammatory
effects of tumor necrosis factor on hematopoietic cells in a murine model of erosive arthritis".
B1iml S, et al., Arthritis Rheum. 2010 Jun;62(6):1608-19), or murine models of graft rejection
and graft versus host disease as described in           "Allograft outcomes in outbred mice".
Reichenbach DK et al., Am J Transplant. 2013 Mar;13(3):580-8.
For example, the following murine models can be used: NZB/W Fl (the oldest classical model
of lupus in which the F1 hybrid is generated between the NZB and NZW strains), the MRL/lpr
and BXSB/Yaa models (spontaneous Lupus), pristane-induced Lupus and induced Chronic
Graft-versus-Host Disease models (models of inducible Lupus comprise pristane-induced Lupus
and induced Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease), C3H mice immunized with DBA/2
splenocytes (allo-transplant models/models for graft rejection; Larsen, 1996), and inbred and
outbred mice, like the Tg197 mouse model (human TNF transgenic; genetic background
C57BL/6; model of erosive arthritis and/or rheumatoid arthritis). These murine models are in
detail described in Perry D et al., J Biomed Biotechnol. 2011;2011:271694), B1iml S, et al.,
Arthritis Rheum. 2010 Jun;62(6):1608-19), and Reichenbach DK et al., Am J Transplant. 2013
Mar;13(3):580-8, which are incorporated herein by reference.
For assaying such a "biological activity" standard techniques can be used, like enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Luminex or similar fluorescence bead based multiplex assay.
Alternatively, Western Blot analysis or immunohistochemical staining can be performed.
Corresponding assays are described in more detail below. Such assays can be performed as
follows, and respective results are depicted in Fig. 4:
Reduction of intracellular Ca-2+flux by CSPs:
Labelling of monocytes using Indol-AM at 4 M was performed in X-VIVO-10 supplemented
with 100U/ml penicillin and 100 g/mL streptomycin at 370 C for 45 minutes. Subsequently, the

                                                8
cells were washed in ice-cold PBS supplemented with 0,5% HSA (FACS buffer) and all
subsequent steps were carried out at 4'C. The cells were resuspended in ice-cold FACS buffer,
aliquoted to cell culture tubes and co-incubated for 30 minutes with monomeric human IgG and
distinct biotinylated CSPs (C4d, C4b, C3d, C3b and iC3b) or ILT4 mouse monoclonal antibody.
Then, the monocytes were washed twice, resuspended and co-incubated for 20 minutes with
biotinylated goat IgG-Fab fragments specific for human IgG and either biotinylated mouse
monoclonal antibodies specific for the aforementioned CSPs or biotinylated goat IgG-F(ab' )
anti-mouse IgG. After two final washing steps the cells were resuspended and Ca2+flux was
measured on a LSR II flow cytometer from Becton-Dickinson after bringing the cells to 370 C in
a water bath. After measuring the baseline Ca 2+-flux cells were incubated with soluble
Streptavidin resulting in co-crosslink of biotinylated molecules attached to the cell surface.
Ca 2+-flux as expressed by the Indo blue/Indo violet ratio was evaluated applying the FlowJo
software from TreeStar Inc.
Reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokine production by C4d:
Ninety-six-well flat bottom cell culture plates were coated over night at 4'C either with or
without human IgG at 100 g/mL in the presence or absence of 5 [g/mL Streptavidin or goat
anti-mouse F(ab' ) fragments. Coating volume was 100 L per well. The following day, wells
were washed five times using 200 L DPBS per well. Subsequently, wells were blocked for two
hours at 20'C using 200 L/well PBS supplemented with 2% HSA (human serum albumin).
Then, the blocking buffer was removed and graded amounts of biotinylated C4d or anti-ILT4
mMAb diluted in blocking buffer was added. After two hours of incubation at 20'C, the wells
were washed as described above and 50,000 freshly isolated monocytes resuspended in serum
free X-VIVO-10 supplemented with 100U/ml penicillin and 100 g/mL streptomycin were
applied per well. The plates were incubated at 370 C in the presence of 5% CO 2 and 100% air
humidity. Production of TNF-cand IL -6 was assessed in cell free supernatants collected after 14
hours of stimulation via sandwich ELISA.
In the context of "an inflammatory condition"/"disorder associated with immune-mediated
inflammation", as described herein the amount of intracellular Ca2+flux or the production of
pro-inflammatory cytokines like TNF-cor IL -6 may be increased by 10 %, 20 %, 30 %, 40 %
and by up to 50 % as compared to a control (healthy) sample. A skilled person is aware of
standard methods to be used in determining both intracellular Ca2+flux as well as the amount of
inflammatory cytokines like TNF-cor IL -6 in a sample or may deduce corresponding methods

                                                 9
from standard textbooks (e.g. Green and Sambrook: 'Molecular Cloning - A Laboratory
Manual', Fouth Edition, 2012, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, , ISBN 978-1-936113-41
5)) or online material (e.g. "Current Protocols", http://www.currentprotocols.com). For example,
the amount of inflammatory cytokines like TNF-wor IL -6 in biological fluids or cell lysates can
be determined by standard enzyme linked-immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or Luminex or similar
fluorescence   bead    based   multiplex   assays.   Alternatively, Western Blot analysis     or
immunohistochemical staining can be performed.
It has been found in the present invention that "C4d" as defined herein is capable of
downregulating a pro-inflammatory response. This capacity is reflected in the herein provided
C4d polypeptides to reduce the levels of inflammatory marker proteins, like TNF-cor IL -6,
which are increased in inflammatory conditions. For example, "C4d" may decrease levels of
inflammatory marker proteins, like TNF-cor IL -6 by at least about 10 %, 15 %, 20 %, 25 %,
more preferably by at least about 30 %, 35 %, 40 % or 45 % and up to e.g. 50 % when compared
to a negative control (the negative control may be or be derived from an "inflammatory model
system" which is not treated with "C4d"); see also the appended Example and Figure 4.
Exemplary model systems/models s are described herein above and below and can also be
deduced e.g. from Perry D et al., J Biomed Biotechnol. 2011;2011:271694), B1iiml S, et al.,
Arthritis Rheum. 2010 Jun;62(6):1608-19), and Reichenbach DK et al., Am J Transplant. 2013
Mar;13(3):580-8, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Accordingly, "C4d" (i.e. the herein defined C4d polypeptides (as e.g. shown in SEQ ID NO: 2
or SEQ ID NO: 4 as well as fragments or derivatives thereof)) have the biological activity to
decrease levels of inflammatory marker proteins (like TNF-aor IL -6 ) for example in an
"inflammatory model system", by at least about 10 %, 15 %, 20 %, 25 %, more preferably by at
least about 30 %, 35 %, 40 % or 45 % and up to e.g. 50 % when compared to a negative control
(the negative control being e.g. an "inflammatory model system" which is not treated with
"C4d"). Suitable model systems (like NZB/W F1 models, MRL/lpr models, BXSB/Yaa models,
pristane-induced Lupus models, induced Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease models, C3H mice
immunized with DBA/2 splenocytes, inbred and outbred mice, like the Tg197 mouse model are
known in the art and are described herein.

                                                  10
The interaction of C4d with ILT4 has the properties of a classical receptor-ligand interaction as
it is saturable and binding of labelled C4d can be inhibited by excess of unlabelled C4d as well
as by ILT4 antibodies as shown in Fig. 3.
The finding that human C4d also interacts with PIR-B, the murine ortholog of ILT4, will
facilitate the evaluation of C4d-b (C4Bd) based therapeutic approaches for the treatment of
immune disorders in pre-clinical in-vivo models, such as models of autoimmunity or models of
allo-transplantation in rodents or other laboratory animals. This will allow for an assessment of
the anti-inflammatory efficacy of C4d-preparations administered to respective animals.
Examples of diseases treatable by the application of C4d-preparations are described in detail
elsewhere herein. An exemplary description of respective animal models is presented as follows:
There are a number of mouse models of systemic lupus erythematosus (reviewed in D. Perry et
al. J Biomed Biotechnol. 2011; Epub 201 1;PMID 21403825)), which allow for studying the
impact of C4d-a (C4Ad) administration on both onset and severity of disease. One of these
models is the NZB/W F 1, the oldest classical model of lupus in which the F 1 hybrid is generated
between the NZB and NZW strains. While both NZB and NZW display limited autoimmunity,
the NZB/W Fl hybrids develop severe lupus-like phenotypes comparable to that of lupus
patients. These lupus-like phenotypes include lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, elevated serum
antinuclear autoantibodies (ANA) including anti-dsDNA IgG, a majority of which are IgG2a
and IgG3, and immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis (GN) that becomes apparent at 5
6 months of age, leading to kidney failure and death at 10-12 months of age.
There are other mouse models of spontaneous Lupus, such as the MRL//pr and BXSB/Yaa
models, which, in contrast to NZB/W Fl mice, do not lack autoantibodies against RNA
containing complexes.
Models of inducible Lupus comprise pristane-induced Lupus and induced Chronic Graft-versus
Host Disease. Unlike the models of spontaneous Lupus, in which genetic factors play the major
role, induced mouse models develop lupus after exposure to environmental triggers.
Intraperitoneal injections of pristane (2, 6, 10, and 14 tetramethylpentadecane, TMPD), found at
high concentration in mineral oil, into BALB/c mice induces autoantibodies characteristic of

                                                  11
lupus, such as antiribonucleoprotein (RNP) antibodies (anti-Su, anti-Sm, and anti-UlRNP), anti
DNA, and anti-histone, to a level comparable to that found in MRL//pr mice. Pristane-treated
mice also have immune-complex deposition in the kidney leading to severe proteinuria and
nephritis. Besides the BALB/c strain, almost all mouse strains are susceptible, to a variable
extent, to the pristane-induced production of antibody and lupus manifestations. Like human
SLE patients and NZB/W F1 model, pristine-induced lupus is more severe in females than in
males, at least in SJL/J strain.
Various models of induced graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) have been used as models of
lupus. These models require only a single injection of donor cells to induce a lupus-like
syndrome. The disease process is reproducible, with severity correlating to the number of
allografted cells. Because this method induces a rapid disease onset from a known starting point,
the study of lupus induction is greatly facilitated as compared to the spontaneous models of
lupus with autoantibodies being detectable as early as 10-14 days after induction, whereas it can
be several weeks to months after birth for the same phenotype to develop in spontaneous lupus
models. Since donor T cells undergo activation and expansion, they can be easily observed by
flow cytometry, allowing the study of the effect of various modifications on the donor as well as
the host cells.
There are a number of murine allo-transplant models which seem to be suitable to asses the anti
inflammatory (immunosuppressive) efficacy of C4d-preparations. The survival of allogenic
skingrafts or cardiac allografts can be assessed in C3H mice immunized with DBA/2
splenocytes in their foodpads as described before (Larsen, 1996). The influence of C4d on the
establishment of mixed chimerism through bone marrow transplantation in mouse models of
tolerogenic cell therapy for application in solid organ transplantation can be assessed. A number
of respective protocols have been published (reviewed in N. Pilat et al. Curr Opin Organ
Transplant. 2012 Feb;17(1):63-70. PMID: 22186093).).
All of these exemplary models are suitable to investigate the anti-inflammatory efficacy of the
herein provided C4d, such as human C4d.

                                                12
As mentioned above, particularly envisaged herein is the use of murine models of systemic
lupus erythematosus as described in "Murine models of systemic lupus erythematosus". - Perry
D et al., J Biomed Biotechnol. 2011;2011:271694), murine models of erosive arthritis and/or
rheumatoid arthritis as described in "Antiinflammatory effects of tumor necrosis factor on
hematopoietic cells in a murine model of erosive arthritis". - B1iiml S, et al., Arthritis Rheum.
2010 Jun;62(6):1608-19), and murine models of graft rejection and graft versus host disease as
described in "Allograft outcomes in outbred mice". - Reichenbach DK et al., Am J Transplant.
2013 Mar;13(3):580-8.
Further, the polypeptides to be used herein are, as shown in the appended example (Fig 2b),
capable of specifically binding to the receptor ILT-4. A corresponding assay for determining
that a polypeptide specifically binds to ILT-4 can be performed as follows:
Ninety-six-well ELISA plates (Corning Inc., Corning, NY) can be coated over night at 4'C
applying unlabelled C4d at a concentration of e.g. 465nM. The following day, the plates can be
washed six times using PBS supplemented with 0,05% Tween20 (Biorad, Hercules, CA). Then,
wells can be blocked for two hours at 20'C applying PBS supplemented with 2% HSA.
Subsequently, the blocking buffer can be removed and rh-ILT4-Fc fusion protein or control
proteins like rh-ILT3-Fc fusion protein (each at 3 g/ml) or sCD35 (5 g/ml) diluted in blocking
buffer can be added. All subsequent incubation steps can be carried out at 20'C using blocking
buffer as dilution medium. After two hours of incubation, the wells can be washed as described
above and AP-labelled anti- human IgG-Fcy-specific antibodies or anti-CD35 mMAb can be
added to the fusion proteins or the sCD35 and incubated for one hour. After washing, the anti
CD35 mMAb can be incubated with HRP-labelled mouse-IgG-Fcy-specific antibodies for one
hour. The AP-signal can be assessed by determining the OD at k4 05nm using a microplate
reader (Thermomax, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) after the addition of p-Nitrophenyl
phosphate disodium hexahydrate (pNPP; Sigma-Aldrich) diluted in diethanolamine at 1mg/ml.
The HRP-signal can be measured at k405nm after incubation with ABTS solution (Roche
Applied Sciences, Penzberg, Germany).
Methods and assays for determining the capacity of "C4d" to downregulate a pro-inflammatory
response or to specifically bind to the receptor ILT-4 are described herein above and in the
appended examples. These capacities can be considered as exemplary (biological) activities of
"C4d". Such exemplary capacities/activities exhibited by the exemplary polypeptides having an

                                                13
amino   acid sequence  as depicted in SEQ   ID NO:2  (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4
(isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)) can be considered as "reference capacity/activity" of "C4d".
The term "C4d" may, preferably, refer to a human C4d polypeptide, such as a C4d polypeptide
comprising the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ
ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)). The C4d polypeptide may be encoded by a nucleic acid
sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d
B(C4Bd)). The sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 1/ SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) and
SEQ ID NO: 2/ SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)) refer to the gene encoding the human
C4d polypeptide (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) and the human C4d polypeptide (isoform C4d
A(C4Ad)) itself, respectively, and to the gene encoding the human C4d polypeptide (isoform
C4d-B(C4Bd)) and the human C4d polypeptide (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)) itself, respectively.
However, the present invention is not limited to the use of human C4d (or a functional fragment
or derivative thereof), but relates also to the medical use of orthologous or similar C4d (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof). The terms "orthologous"/"similar" are described
herein below. For example, murine C4d may be used in context of the present invention in the
place of human C4d. The respective sequences of orthologous C4d can be deduced from public
databases.
Without deferring from the gist of the present invention also (functional) fragment or
(functional) derivatives of the herein provided complement split products C4d can be used, for
example, (functional) fragment or (functional) derivatives of human C4d polypeptide, such as a
C4d polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A
(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)).
A fragment can consist of at least 100 contiguous amino acids of the amino acid sequence
shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)).
A fragment can consist of at least 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220,
230, 240, 250, 260, or at least 270 contiguous amino acids of the amino acid sequence shown in
SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)).
Preferably, a fragment can consist of at least 280 contiguous amino acids of the amino acid
sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B
(C4Bd)). A fragment can consist of at least 290, 300, 310, 320, 330, 340, 350, 360 or 370

                                                   14
contiguous amino acids of the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4d-A
(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B (C4Bd)). An exemplary fragment of a C4d
polypeptide to be used in accordance with the present invention may, for example, have 39
amino acids deleted at the N-terminus of SEQ ID NO: 2 and/or have 15 amino acids deleted at
the C-terminus of SEQ ID NO: 2.
The fragment or derivative preferably has the biological activity (down-regulation of a pro
inflammatory response / triggering/inducing/stimulating an anti-inflammatory response) as
defined above. For example, the fragment or derivative can have the same (or essentially the
same) biological activity as the full length polypeptide having the amino acid sequence shown in
SEQ ID NO: 2 (isoform C4Ad) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4Bd). In this sense, the fragment or
derivative is a "functional" fragment or derivative to be used herein.
In context of the present invention, human C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof
derived from human C4d) may be used in the treatment of humans suffering from an
inflammatory condition. Correspondingly, murine C4d (a functional fragment or derivative
thereof derived from murine C4d) can be used in the treatment of mice suffering from an
inflammatory condition. Accordingly, the C4d (or functional fragment or derivative thereof) to
be used in the treatment of a specific organism (e.g. human, mouse, pig and the like) may be
isolated or derived from a sample from said specific organism (e.g. human, mouse or pig,
respectively). The C4d isolated/derived from a specific organism as described above may also
be used in the treatment of closely related organisms; for example, human C4d (or functional
fragment or derivative thereof) may be used in the treatment of a chimpanzee, and vice versa.
It is also envisaged that the specific C4d isolated/derived from a specific organism may also be
used in the treatment of distantly related organisms; for example, human (or functional fragment
or derivative thereof) may be used in the treatment of a mouse. Indeed, the examples show that
human C4d may be used in mice and may be used in corresponding animal tests as described
herein above. Closely related organisms may, in particular, be organisms which form a subgroup
of a species, e.g. different races of a species. Also organisms which belong to a different species
but can be subgrouped under a common genus can be considered as closely related. Less closely
related organisms belong to different genera subgrouped under one family. Distantly related
organisms belong to different families. The taxonomic terms "race", "species", "genus",
"family" and the like are well known in the art and can easily be derived from standard
textbooks. Based on the teaching provided in the present invention a skilled person is therefore
easily in the position to identify "closely related" or "distantly related" organisms. A person
skilled in the art is capable of identifying and/or isolating C4d as defined herein and in particular

                                                  15
as defined in sections (a) to (f) of the above-mentioned aspect of the present invention or a
nucleic acid molecule encoding said C4d from a specific organism (e.g. human, mouse, pig,
guinea pig, rat, and the like) using standard techniques.
As used herein the terms "human C4d"/"C4d of human origin" refer in particular to (a)
protein(s) as found in the human body which can accordingly be isolated from a sample
obtained from a human. The term "C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) derived
from human C4d" refers in particular to "human C4d"/"C4d of human origin" which is modified
as described herein below (e.g. by way of substitution, deletion, addition and/or insertion of (an)
amino acid(s)). Said modified polypeptide may also form part of a fusion protein or may form
multimeric proteins. The explanations given herein above in respect of "human C4d"/"C4d of
human origin" apply, mutatis mutandis, to "murine C4d"/"C4d of murine origin" and C4d
isolated from other organisms, such as pigs, guinea pigs, rats, and the like.
The use of C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) as described and defined herein
in the treatment of economically, agronomically or scientifically important organisms is
envisaged herein. Scientifically or experimentally important organisms include, but are not
limited to, mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs and pigs. Yet, the treatment of (a) human(s) with C4d
(in particular C4d of human origin or derived from human C4d) or a functional fragment or
derivative thereof is preferred in context of the present invention.
The complement split product C4d to be used in accordance with the present invention, inter
alia, in the treatment of an inflammatory condition, may be a C4d polypeptide selected from the
group consisting of
(a)      a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
         acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
         C4d-A (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)      a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
         NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)      a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
         inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)      a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
         consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
         A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));

                                                  16
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
The term "C4d polypeptide" to be used in context of the present invention may refer to a
polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to a polypeptide as defined in section (a) to (e) of the
above-described specific aspect of the present invention. The "C4d polypeptide" has preferably
essentially the same biological activity as a polypeptide having 100 % similarity to a
polypeptide as indicated in section (a), (b) or (d), i.e. a polypeptide being essentially identical to
a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)). Methods for determining the activity of
(a) polypeptide(s) are described above.
It is of note that C4d or a functional fragment or derivative thereof as described and defined
herein may further comprise a heterologous polypeptide, for example, (an) amino acid
sequence(s) for identification and/or purification of the recombinant protein (e.g. amino acid
sequence from C-MYC, GST protein, FLAG peptide, HIS peptide and the like), an amino acid
sequence used as reporter (e.g. green fluorescent protein, yellow fluorescent protein, red
fluorescent protein, luciferase, and the like), or antibodies/antibody fragments (like scFv). A
person skilled in the art knows that for determination of similarity as described herein only a
part of the C4d polypeptides is to be used, whereby said part is C4d (or a functional fragment or
derivative thereof). Also further compounds (e.g. toxins or antibodies or fragments thereof) may
be attached to C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) by standard techniques.
These compounds may, in particular, be useful in a medical setting as described herein, wherein
C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) is used. A skilled person is aware of
compounds to be used/attached in this context.

                                                 17
It is also envisaged herein that C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) as defined
herein, though being of, for example, human, murine or porcine origin (e.g. C4d isolated from
human, mouse or pig as described above), may be modified in order to change certain properties
of the polypeptide. For example, such a modified C4d (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) may exhibit increased biological activity as defined herein or increased stability when
compared to the "original" C4d (i.e. the C4d as produced in a healthy, non-transgenic organism,
e.g. human C4d as defined above). For example, the polypeptide having the amino acid
sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 or SEQ ID NO: 4 can be considered as "original" human
C4d. A "modified" C4d (or a functional fragment thereof) may have (an) insertion(s), (a)
deletion(s), additions(s) and/or (an) substitution(s) of one or more amino acids as described
below in more detail.
As the first medical use of C4d is provided herein, the present invention relates, inter alia, to the
complement split product C4d as defined herein for use in medicine.
The complement split product C4d for use in medicine, may be a C4d polypeptide selected from
the group consisting of
(a)      a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
         acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
         C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)      a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
         NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)      a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
         inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)      a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
         consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
         A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)      a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
         acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
         nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
         biological activity;
(f)      a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
         and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)      a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic

                                                   18
        acid molecule    being degenerate  as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
The "C4d" to be used herein is preferably a C4d multimer, like a C4d polypeptide multimer. As
mentioned, it has surprisingly been found in the present invention that "C4d" is capable of
triggering an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise "C4d" is capable of down-regulating a
pro-inflammatory response). Without being bound by theory, it is believed that the specific
binding of "C4d" to its receptor ILT-4 induces or is associated with downregulation of a pro
inflammatory response.
In the human body, the C4d polypeptides remain, after cleavage of the precursor molecules, on
the cell-surface. It is believed that these cell-surface bound C4d polypeptides interact with ILT
4. Further, it is believed that the cell-surface bound C4d polypeptides are present at a relatively
high density at the cell-surface and that this may contribute, by interaction with ILT-4, to the
downregulation of a pro-inflammatory response. It is, therefore, desirable that the herein
provided use of C4d polypeptides for the treatment of an inflammatory condition reflects closely
the conditions that are found in the human body. For that purpose, it is believed that it is
beneficial to use C4d multimers reflecting the relatively high density of the cell-surface bound
C4d polypeptides at the cell-surface in the human body. In the Example, biotinylated C4d
polypeptides were used as exemplary functional multimers. These multimers strongly
downregulated a pro-inflammatory response as reflected in decreased levels of inflammatory
markers TNF-cand IL -6 as well as a marked decrease in intracellular Ca2+-flux.
While the present invention provides the first medical use of these novel compounds (i.e. C4d
multimers) it also relates to the C4d multimers as such.
The present invention provides a complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer, said
multimer comprising two or more complement split product C4d polypeptides selected from the
group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));

                                                19
(c)     a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
        inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)     a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
        consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
        A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
Therefore, the present invention relates to (a) C4d multimer(s) and the use of the C4d
multimer(s) in medicine, like in the treatment of an inflammatory condition.
The present invention relates to a complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer for use in
medicine, said multimer comprising two or more complement split product C4d polypeptides
selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)     a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
        inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)     a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
        consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
        A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d

                                                 20
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
The present invention relates to a complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer for use in
treating an inflammatory condition, said multimer comprising two or more complement split
product C4d polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)     a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
        inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)     a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
        consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
        A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
The C4d multimer may comprise or consist of one, preferably of two or more C4d polypeptides
as defined herein above. Accordingly, a C4d multimer may be a dimer, trimer and the like and
may comprise of from 2, 3, 4, 5 to 10 and up to 20 C4d polypeptides (and/or (a) functional
fragment(s) or (a) functional derivative(s) thereof). Preferably, the C4d multimer is a C4d dimer

                                                21
or C4d trimer. Particularly preferred is a C4d dimer. In other words, the C4d multimer provided
and to be used herein comprises preferably 2 C4d polypeptides as defined herein or 3 C4d
polypeptides as defined herein. Particularly preferred is a C4d multimer provided and to be used
herein which comprises preferably 2 C4d polypeptides as defined herein.
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention comprises two or more complement split product C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention can comprise two complement split product C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention can comprise three complement split product C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention can comprise two complement split product C4d

                                               22
polypeptides having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2
(isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention comprises three complement split product C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform (C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO:2 (isoform (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform (C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention can comprise three complement split product C4d
polypeptides having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2
(isoform (C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform (C4Bd)).
It is envisaged that the       C4d (polypeptide) multimers can comprise different             C4d
polypeptides)(i.e. C4d polypeptides or fragments or derivatives thereof) which are not identical,
because they have, for example, a different amino acid sequence). Yet, it is preferred herein that
the C4d (polypeptide) multimers comprise identical C4d (polypeptides) (i.e. C4d polypeptides
or fragments or derivatives thereof) with an identical amino acid sequence. Thus, C4d
(polypeptide) homo-multimers are preferred.
For example, the C4d (polypeptide) multimer can comprise two or more of (a) a polypeptide
comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule having
the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)); or (b) a
polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2
(isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)). For example, the C4d (polypeptide) multimer can comprise two or
more of a (a) polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
nucleic acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform
C4d-B(C4Bd)); or (b)a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted
in SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).

                                               23
For example, the C4d polypeptide as comprised in a C4d (polypeptide) multimer may be a C4d
polypeptide selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)    a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
       inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)    a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
       consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
       A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
       nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
       biological activity;
(f)    a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
       and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
       of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
For example, the C4d (polypeptide) (homo-)multimer can comprise two or more C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad));
(c)    a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
       inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)    a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
       consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
       A(C4Ad));

                                                24
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
For example, the C4d (polypeptide) (homo-)multimer can comprise two or more C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform
        C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)     a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
        inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)     a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
        consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d
        B(C4Bd));
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
        biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
        and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide (homo-)multimer provided herein and to be used
in accordance with the present invention comprises two or more complement split product C4d

                                               25
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        C4d-A(C4Ad));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide (homo-)multimer provided herein and to be used
in accordance with the present invention can comprise two complement split product C4d
polypeptides having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2
(isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide (homo-)multimer provided herein and to be used
in accordance with the present invention comprises two or more complement split product C4d
polypeptides selected from the group consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
        acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform
        C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
        NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer provided herein and to be used in
accordance with the present invention can comprise two complement split product C4d
polypeptides having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 4
(isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The herein provided and described complement split product C4d polypeptide multimer is for
use in medicine, particularly for use in treating an inflammatory condition. Specific
inflammatory conditions to be treated in accordance with the present invention are defined and
disclosed herein.
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating an
inflammatory condition, said pharmaceutical composition comprising a complement split
product C4d multimer, said multimer comprising two or more complement split product C4d

                                               26
polypeptides, wherein said complement split product C4d polypeptide is selected from the group
consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule
having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform complement split
product C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform complement split product C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)     a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
complement split product C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split product
C4d-B(C4Bd)).
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating an
inflammatory condition, said pharmaceutical composition comprising a complement split
product C4d multimer, said multimer comprising two or more complement split product C4d
polypeptides, wherein said complement split product C4d polypeptide is a polypeptide having
an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform complement split product C4d
A(C4Ad)).
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating an
inflammatory condition, said pharmaceutical composition comprising a complement split
product C4d multimer, said multimer comprising two or more complement split product C4d
polypeptides, wherein said complement split product C4d polypeptide is a polypeptide having
an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split product C4d
B(C4Bd)).
Without deferring from the gist of the present invention, (functional) fragments or (functional)
derivatives of complement split product C4d polypeptide(s) as defined above can be used
herein, also in context of the herein provided complement split product C4d polypeptide
multimers. The definitions of (functional) fragments or (functional) derivatives of complement
split product C4d polypeptide(s) provided herein apply mutatis mtandis in this context.
Such C4d (polypeptide) multimers may be produced e.g. by recombinant (biotechnological)
techniques and/or by chemical techniques.

                                                27
For example, the C4d multimers can be recombinantly produced by taking advantage of nucleic
acid molecules encoding such multimers. A nucleic acid encoding a C4d dimer may, for
example, comprise
(i)     a nucleic acid sequence encoding a translated amino acid and/or a leader sequence;
(ii)    a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or
        derivative thereof);
(iii)   optionally a nucleic acid sequence encoding a linker peptide;
(iv)    a nucleic acid sequence encoding a second C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or
        derivative thereof); and
(v)     a nucleic acid sequence that represents or is a translational stop codon.
The above mentioned "translated amino acid and/or a leader sequence" under (i) may for
example be the starting "M", i.e. a methionine derived from a corresponding starting codon, it
may also comprise non-translated sequences of an mRNA like the 5' sequene up to a start
codon which comprises for example a ribosome binding site. Such a sequence may however
also comprise classical leader and/or signal sequences for example for secretion of an expressed
protein into the periplasm or in a culture medium. Prokaryotic signal peptides are for example
OmpA, MalE, PhoA, DsbA, pelB, Afa, npr, STII. Eukaryotic signal peptides are for example
Honeybee melittin signal sequence, acidic glycoprotein gp67 signal sequence, mouse IgM signal
sequence, hGH signal sequence. It is to be understood that nucleic acids encoding the herein
provided C4d multimers are in frame (i.e. the reading frame is maintained allowing generation
of bona fide C4d multimers, wherein the C4d polypeptide retain their biological activity.
Translational stop codons to be employed in the nucleic acid molecule provided herein are well
known in the art and are, e.g. codons UAA, UAG or UGA.
In accordance with the present invention, the nucleic acid molecule encoding the C4d multimers
may comprise more than two nucleic acid sequences encoding a C4d polypeptide. Accordingly,
such a nucleic acid molecule may encode 3, 4, 5, 6 and up to 10 or 20 C4d polypeptides.
For example, a nucleic acid encoding a C4d trimer may comprise
(i)   a nucleic acid sequence encoding a translated amino acid and/or a leader sequence;
(ii)  a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or
      derivative thereof);
(iii) optionally a nucleic acid sequence encoding a linker peptide;

                                                 28
(iv) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a second C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or
      derivative thereof);
(v)   optionally a nucleic acid sequence encoding a linker peptide;
(vi) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a third C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or
      derivative thereof); and
(vii) a nucleic acid sequence that represents or is a translational stop codon.
Corresponding nucleic acid molecules encoding 4, 5, 6 and up to 10 or 20 C4d polypeptides are
also subject of the present invention.
In accordance with the above, the herein provided C4d (polypeptide) multimer(s) (e.g. C4d
dimers, trimers etc.) may, for example, comprise
(i)   a translated amino acid and/or a leader sequence (this translated amino acid and/or leader
      sequence may also be absent, for example, due to (enzymatic) cleavage of the leader
      sequence etc);
(ii)  a first C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof);
(iii) optionally a linker peptide;
(iv) a second C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof).
An exemplary C4d trimer may, accordingly, comprise
(i)   a translated amino acid and/or a leader sequence (this translated amino acid and/or leader
      sequence may also be absent, for example, due to (enzymatic) cleavage of the leader
      sequence etc);
(ii)  a first C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof);
(iii) optionally a linker peptide;
(iv) a second C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof).
(v)   optionally a linker peptide;
(vi) a third C4d polypeptide (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof).
The C4d polypeptides of C4d polypeptide multimers (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) may be identical or different C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) as defined herein. For example, a C4d polypeptide dimer may comprise two identical
C4d polypeptides (e.g. two polypeptides having or consisting of the sequence as depicted in
SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or two polypeptides having or consisting of the
sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)). Alternatively, a C4d

                                                 29
polypeptide dimer may comprise two different C4d polypeptides (e.g. a first polypeptide having
or consisting of the sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) and a
second polypeptide having or consisting of the sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform
C4d-B(C4Bd)) or e.g a first polypeptide having or consisting of the sequence as depicted in
SEQ ID NO:4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)) and a second polypeptide having or consisting of the
sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 2(isoform C4d-A(C4Ad))).
Further combinations of C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) as
defined herein in any order in C4d (polypeptide) multimers can easily be imagined and are
within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly, and in the context of the invention, the
order of the herein defined "first" and "second" (or "third" etc.) C4d polypeptide (or functional
fragment or derivative thereof) may be arranged in an order. For example, said "first
polypeptide" may be located at the amino (N-) terminus and said "second polypeptide" may be
located at the carboxy (C-) terminus of the C4d multimer. However, this order may also be
reversed, e.g. said "first polypeptide" is located at the carboxy (C-) terminus and said "second
polypeptide" is located at the amino (N-) terminus of the of the C4d multimer. If the C4d
multimer comprises/consists only of one first C4d polypeptide and one second C4d polypeptide,
the domain order may, accordingly, be (from N-terminus to C-terminus): first C4d polypeptide
second C4d polypeptide. Vice versa, the domain order may be (from N-terminus to C-terminus):
second C4d polypeptide - first C4d polypeptide.
The C4d multimers may be produced by recombinant expression of only one C4d polypeptides
(or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) (e.g. by taking advantage of a nucleic acid
molecules encoding a C4d polypeptide monomer (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof)). Such recombinant C4d polypeptide monomers may then be conjugated or linked to
form C4d multimers, e.g. via biotinylation as exemplified in the appended example. Various
methods for protein multimerization have been described and are known in the art.
Pentamerization of C4d can be accomplished by fusing coiled-coil domains (Terskikh et al,
PNAS, 1997, 94; 1663) or the secretory tailpiece of human IgM (Sorensen et al, J. Immunol.
1996; 156; 2858) to C4d molecules. Dimerization is achieved f.i. by generating immunoglobulin
fusion proteins whereby a C4d is fused to the hinge region and CH2 and CH3 domains of human
IgGI. Another possibility is to link several C4d molecules via a dextran-backbone (Batard et al.,
J. Immunol. Meth. 2006; 310; 136).

                                                 30
Preferably, the nucleic acid molecule of the invention is comprised in a recombinant vector in
which a nucleic acid molecule encoding the herein described C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) is operatively linked to expression control sequences
allowing expression in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. Expression of said nucleic acid molecule
comprises transcription of the nucleic acid molecule into a translatable mRNA. Regulatory
elements permitting expression in prokaryotic host cells comprise, e.g., the lambda PL, lac, trp,
tac, ara, phoA, tet or T7 promoters in E. coli. Possible regulatory elements ensuring expression
in eukaryotic cells, preferably mammalian cells or yeast, are well known in the art. They usually
comprise regulatory sequences ensuring initiation of transcription and optionally poly-A signals
effecting termination of transcription and stabilization of the transcript. Additional regulatory
elements may include transcriptional as well as translational enhancers, and/or naturally
associated or heterologous promoter regions. Examples for regulatory elements permitting
expression in eukaryotic host cells are the AOX1 or GAL1 promoters in yeast or the CMV,
SV40, RSV (Rous sarcoma virus) promoters, CMV enhancer, SV40 enhancer or a globin intron
in mammalian and other animal cells. Apart from elements which are responsible for the
initiation of transcription such regulatory elements may also comprise transcription termination
signals, such as the SV40-poly-A site or the tk-poly-A site, downstream of the coding region.
Methods which are well known to those skilled in the art can be used to construct recombinant
vectors (see, for example, the techniques described in Sambrook (1989), Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory NY and Ausubel (1989), Current Protocols
in Molecular Biology, Green Publishing Associates and Wiley Interscience, NY). In this
context, suitable expression vectors are known in the art such as Okayama-Berg cDNA
expression vector pcDV1 (Pharmacia), pCDM8, pRc/CMV, pcDNA1, pcDNA3, pPICZalpha A
(Invitrogen), or pSPORT1 (GIBCO BRL). Furthermore, depending on the expression system
that is used, leader sequences capable of directing the polypeptide to a cellular compartment or
secreting it into the culture medium may be added to the coding sequence of the nucleic acid
molecule of the invention.
The present invention also relates to vectors, particularly plasmids, cosmids, viruses, and
bacteriophages that are conventionally employed in genetic engineering, comprising a nucleic
acid molecule encoding the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) /
C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) of the invention. Preferably, said vector is an expression vector and/or a gene transfer or

                                                   31
targeting vector. Expression vectors derived from viruses such as retroviruses, vaccinia virus,
adeno-associated virus, herpes viruses or bovine papilloma virus may be used for delivery of the
polynucleotides or vector of the invention into targeted cell populations.
The vectors containing the nucleic acid molecules of the invention can be transfected into the
host cell by well known methods, which vary depending on the type of cell. Accordingly, the
invention further relates to a cell comprising said nucleic acid molecule or said vector. Such
methods, for example, include the techniques described in Sambrook (1989), loc. cit. and
Ausubel (1989), loc. cit. Accordingly, calcium chloride transfection or electroporation is
commonly      utilized   for prokaryotic    cells,    whereas   calcium    phosphate  treatment or
electroporation may be used for other cellular hosts (Sambrook (1989), loc. cit.). As a further
alternative, the nucleic acid molecules and vectors of the invention can be reconstituted into
liposomes for delivery to target cells. The nucleic acid molecule or vector of the invention
which is present in the host cell may either be integrated into the genome of the host cell or it
may be maintained extra-chromosomally. Accordingly, the present invention also relates to a
host cell comprising the nucleic acid molecule and/or the vector of this invention. Host cells for
the expression of polypeptides are well known in the art and comprise prokaryotic cells as well
as eukaryotic cells, e.g. E. coli cells, yeast cells, invertebrate cells, CHO cells, CHO-KI cells,
HEK 293 cells, Hela cells, COS-1 monkey cells, melanoma cells such as Bowes cells, mouse L
929 cells, 3T3 cell lines derived from Swiss, Balb-c or NIH mice, BHK or HaK hamster cell
lines and the like. Production in cells of mammalian origin is preferred, if glycosylation of the
polypeptide is desired.
In a further aspect, the present invention comprises methods for the preparation of the C4d
polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one
or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) comprising culturing
the (host) cell of this invention and isolating said C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment
or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) from the culture as described herein. In general, the
C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising
one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) may be produced
by recombinant DNA technology, e.g. by cultivating a cell comprising the described nucleic
acid molecule or vectors which encode the inventive C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) and isolating said C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional

                                                32
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) from the culture. The inventive C4d polypeptide(s) (or
a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d
polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) may be produced in any suitable
cell culture system including prokaryotic cells, e.g. E. coli BL21, KS272 or JM83, or eukaryotic
cells, e.g. Pichiapastoris, yeast strain X-33 or CHO cells. Further suitable cell lines known in
the art are obtainable from cell line depositories like the American Type Culture Collection
(ATCC).
The term "prokaryotic" is meant to include bacterial cells while the term "eukaryotic" is meant
to include yeast, higher plant, insect and mammalian cells. The transformed hosts can be grown
in fermentors and cultured according to techniques known in the art to achieve optimal cell
growth. In a further embodiment, the present invention relates to a process for the preparation of
a C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers
comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof)
described above comprising cultivating a cell of the invention under conditions suitable for
expression of the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d
multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) and isolating said protein/polypeptide from the cell or the culture medium.
The C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers
comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) as
provided herein may comprise a chemically reactive group, for example when said C4d
polypeptide is part of a "fusion protein"/"fusion construct". As also described above, the C4d
polypeptide can be prepared by recombinant expression in a transformed cell in several ways
according to methods well known to the person skilled in the art, for example: (i) direct
expression in the cytoplasm with the help of an N-terminal Met residue / start codon; (ii)
secretion via an N-terminal signal peptide, for example OmpA, PhoA (Monteilhet (1993) Gene.
1993 125:223-228), mellitin (Tessier (1991) Gene 98: 177-183), interleukin 2 (Zhang (2005) J
Gene Med 7: 354-365), hGH (Pecceu (1991) Gene 97(2):253-258) and the like, followed by
intracellular cleavage resulting in the mature N-terminus, such as Ala or Pro; (iii) expression as
a fusion protein with another soluble protein, e.g., maltose-binding protein at the N-terminus
and with a protease cleavage site interspersed (Kapust and Waugh (2000) Protein Expr. Purif.

                                                33
19:312-318), followed by specific protease cleavage in vitro or in vivo, thus releasing the amino
acid polymer/polypeptide with its mature N-terminus such. Another suitable fusion partner is
the SUMO protein, which can be cleaved by SUMO protease. Further fusion partners include,
without limitation, glutathion-S-transferase, thioredoxin, a cellulose-binding domain, an
albumin-binding domain, a fluorescent protein (such as GFP), protein A, protein G, an intein
and the like (Malhotra (2009) Methods Enzymol. 463:239-258).
With the means and methods provided herein it is now possible to manufacture and provide for
the herein disclosed (i) C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d
multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) and (ii) peptides/proteins comprising said C4d polypeptide(s) and/or C4d (polypeptide)
multimers which comprise (a) further molecule(s) of interest, like a useful protein, a protein
segment or a small molecule. Accordingly, the present invention also provides for a method for
the preparation and/or manufacture of a C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or
derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) as comprised in conjugates, like drug conjugates.
These methods, comprise (as one step) the cultuvation of the (host) cell as provided herein
above and (as a further step) the isolation of said C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment
or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) and/or polypeptide conjugate from the culture or from
said cell. This isolated C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d
multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) as well as the isolated conjugate may than be further processed. For example, said C4d
polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one
or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) or conjugate may be
chemically linked or coupled to a molecule of interest. Furthermore and as an alternative, the
molecule of interest may be enzymatically conjugated e.g. via transglutaminase (Besheer (2009)
J Pharm Sci. 98:4420-8) or other enzymes (Subul (2009) Org. Biomol. Chem. 7:3361-3371) to
said C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers
comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) or
conjugate.

                                               34
The C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers
comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) or
conjugate comprising same can be isolated (inter alia) from the growth medium, cellular lysates,
periplasm or cellular membrane fractions. The isolation and purification of the expressed
polypeptides of the invention may be performed by any conventional means (Scopes (1982)
"Protein Purification", Springer, New York, NY), including ammonium sulphate precipitation,
affinity purification, column chromatography, gel electrophoresis and the like and may involve
the use of monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies directed, e.g., against a tag fused with the C4d
polypeptide /C4d multimer(s) of the invention. For example, the protein can be purified via the
Strep-tag II using streptavidin affinity chromatography. Substantially pure polypeptides of at
least about 90 to 95 % homogeneity (on the protein level) are preferred, and 98 to 99 % or more
homogeneity are most preferred, in particular for pharmaceutical use/applications. Depending
upon the host cell / organism employed in the production procedure, the polypeptides of the
present invention may be glycosylated or may be non-glycosylated.
As mentioned above, the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) /
C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) may comprise additional amino acid stretches which may, as such, not contribute to the
biological activity (like attenuation of a pro-inflammatory response) of the herein provided
polypeptides. The further amino acid sequences/amino acid residues may, for example, be useful
as linkers. As explained above, inter alia, dimers, trimers, i.e. in general multimers of the C4d
polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) are envisaged in context of the
present invention and such multimers may be linked by amino acid sequences/residues. Such
peptide linkers would preferentially be composed of flexible residues like glycine or serine and
could have different length preferentially between 5 and 15 amino acids. A peptide with the
amino acid sequence GGGSGGGSGGGS would be an example for a flexible linker that could
be used.
Furthermore, a drug conjugate is provided which comprises the herein described and defined
C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising
one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) and a small
molecule drug that is conjugated to said C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or

                                               35
derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof).
A site-specific conjugation of the N-terminus of the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) with an activated drug derivative, e.g. as N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) ester derivative (Hermanson (1996) Bioconjugate Techniques,
Academic Press, San Diego, CA), is possible. Generally, the N-terminal amino group can be
chemically coupled with a wide variety of functional groups such as aldehydes and ketones (to
form Schiff bases, which may be reduced to amines using sodium borohydride or sodium
cyanoborohydride, for example) or to activated carbonic acid derivatives (anhydrides, chlorides,
esters and the like, to form amides) or to other reactive chemicals such as isocyanates,
isothiocyanates, sulfonly chlorides etc. Also, the N-terminus of the polypeptide can first be
modified with a suitable protective group, for example an acetyl group, a BOC group or an
FMOC group (Jakubke (1996) Peptide. Spektrum Akdemischer Verlag, Heidelberg, Germany).
Furthermore, the amino terminus may be protected by a pyroglutamyl group, which can form
from an encoded Gln amino acid residue. After activation of the C-terminal carboxylate group,
e.g. using the common reagents EDC (N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide) and
NHS, site-specific coupling to the C-terminus of the protected C4d polypeptide(s) (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d
polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) can be achieved if the drug carries
a free amino group, for example.
Alternatively, the N-terminus or the C-terminus of the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) can be modified with a commercially available linker
reagent providing a maleimide group, thus allowing chemical coupling to a thiol group as part of
the drug molecule. In this manner uniform drug conjugates can be easily obtained. Similar
techniques, which are well known in the art (Hermanson (1996) loc. cit.), can be used to couple
C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising
one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) to a peptide or
even to a protein drug. Such peptides or proteins can easily be prepared carrying a Lys or Cys
side chain, which allows their in vitro coupling to the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional

                                                 36
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) via NHS ester or maleimide active groups. Generally,
similar drug conjugates can be prepared with fusion proteins comprising C4d polypeptide(s) (or
a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d
polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof).
As an alternative to a single site-specific conjugation, the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional
fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a
functional fragment or derivative thereof) may be equipped with additional side chains, at the N
or C-terminus or internally, suitable for chemical modification such as lysine residues with their
c-amino groups, cysteine residues with their thiol groups, or even non-natural amino acids,
allowing the conjugation of multiple small molecules using, for example, NHS ester or
maleimide active groups.
Apart from stable conjugation, a prodrug may be linked transiently to the C4d polypeptide(s) (or
a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d
polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof). The linkage can be designed to be
cleaved in vivo, in a predictable fashion, either via an enzymatic mechanism or by slow
hydrolysis initiated at physiological pH. Furthermore, the small molecule may be coupled to a
fusion protein comprising the C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or
derivative thereof) genetically fused to a targeting domain, e.g. an antibody fragment, thus
resulting in a specific delivery of the small molecule drug.
The following relates to exemplary protocols for the generation of complement split product
C4d multimers to be used in accordance with the present invention, for example in the treatment
of graft rejection, graft versus host disease, rheumatoid arthritis and (systemic) lupus
erythematosus.
Method 1.: Generation of divalent recombinant human C4d-IgGl-Fc-fusion proteins ("C4Ad
IgG1-Fc"-fusion protein and "C4Bd-IgG1-Fc"-fusion protein) including C4d-IgG1-Fc-fusion
proteins optimized for Fc-mediated effector functions, e.g. Fc sequence engineering for

                                               37
silenced/immunosuppressive effector functionality as described in Strohl WR. (Optimization of
Fc-mediated effector functions of monoclonal antibodies. Curr Opin Biotechnol 2009; 20 (6):
685), which is incorporated herein by reference.
Exemplary sequence of C4Ad-Immunoglobulin GJ fusion protein (C4Ad-IgGl-Fc):
HumanCD5 Signalsequence(aa 1-25)-humanC4Ad(aa26-405)-Glycinlinker-humanIgG1              from
hinge region:
MPMGSLQPLATLYLLGMLVASCLGTLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVRVTASDPLDTLGS
EGALSPGGVASLLRLPRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLDKTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQ
KGYMRIQQFRKADGSYAAWLSRDSSTWLTAFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNWL
LSQQQADGSFQDPCPVLDRSMQGGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVFQDEGAEPLK
QRVEASISKANSFLGEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAPVDLLGVAHNNLMAMAQ
ETGDNLYWGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQAPALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKAE
MADQAAAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTVIALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNVTLSSTGRGG
GDPEGDPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHED
PEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNK
ALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQ
PENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLS
PGK
Exemplary sequence of C4Bd-Immunoglobulin GJ fusion protein (C4Bd-IgGl-Fc):
HumanCD5 Signalsequence (aa 1-25)-humanC4Bd(aa26-405)-Glycinlinker-humanIgG1             from
hinge region:
MPMGSLQPLATLYLLGMLVASCLGTLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVRVTASDPLDTLGS
EGALSPGGVASLLRLPRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLDKTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQ
KGYMRIQQFRKADGSYAAWLSRDSSTWLTAFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNWL
LSQQQADGSFQDLSPVIHRSMQGGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVFQDEGAEPLK
QRVEASISKANSFLGEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAPVDLLGVAHNNLMAMAQ
ETGDNLYWGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQAPALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKAE
MADQAAAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTVIALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNVTLSSTGRGG
GDPEGDPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHED
PEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNK
ALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQ

                                                 38
PENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLS
PGK
This method provides for C4d dimers. To this end, fusion proteins of C4d polypeptides as
provided and defined herein with IgG1-Fc are generated (an exemplary IgG1-Fc sequence to be
used herein is underlined in the above fusion proteins). C4d dimers are generated by
dimerization of the individual C4d-IgG1-Fc-fusion proteins via the IgGl-Fc-part (which forms
disulfide bonds). Because also C4d polypeptides inherently are prone to form disulfide bonds
via cysteine residues, large complexes of C4d- IgG1-Fc-fusion proteins might be generated.
Because such large complexes of many C4d- IgG1-Fc-fusion proteins are believed to be
undesirable for therapeutic purposes, the cysteines of the C4d polypeptides are inactivated,
thereby reducing or eliminating the probability of formation of disulfide bonds. This is
explained in more detail below.
Human C4d contains one cysteine located in the thioester region, which in recombinant C4d is a
free cysteine. This is true for recombinant C4d of both C4d isoforms (C4Ad and C4Bd) as
defined herein. However, besides the thioester cysteine in C4Ad and C4Bd, C4d of the C4A
isotype has got one additional free cysteine located in the isotypic sequence (PCPVLD), which
increases the odds for disulfide-linked dimer formation between single C4d molecules, this C4d
C4d dimer-formation might occur between the two C4d-molecules of a C4d-IgG1-Fc fusion
dimer protein as well as between C4d-molecules of distinct C4d-IgG 1-Fc fusion dimer proteins,
the latter potentially resulting in large complexes of C4d-IgG1-Fc fusion proteins. Both types of
dimer-(or multimer) formation might interfere with the ability of the recombinant C4d
molecules to interact with their cellular receptors, thus, potentially compromising the conferral
of the desired therapeutic (immunomodulatory) effects. Therefore, the formation of disulphide
linked C4d-dimers ought to be precluded.
There are two distinct methods allowing for the preclusion of C4d-C4d disulfide bridge
formation:
a) The first method represents the irreversible functional inactivation of the cysteine(s) by
chemical reduction followed by alkylation. Mild reduction of cysteines can be achieved by
adding DTT (e.g. 5 mM final concentration, pH 8) to a solution of C4d (e.g. in PBS, pH 8) in
the absence of any denaturing agents and incubating the reaction for one hour at 20'C. This will
lead to the selective reduction of the disulfide bonds of the IgG1 hinge-region as well as any

                                                  39
potential C4d-C4d disulfide bridges, without affecting the intrachain disulfide bonds of the CH2
and CH3 domains of the IgG1-Fc region, as in the absence of any denaturing agent the
intrachain disulfide bonds will not be accessible to reduction in aqueous buffers. After one hour
of incubation at 20'C, the reduced thiol-groups can be alkylated by applying a slight excess of
iodoacetamide (e.g. 15 mM) and incubating the reaction for 20 minutes at 20'C. Alkylation of
the cysteins prevents any re-oxidation and, thus, any C4d-C4d-disulfide bridge formation. The
low molecular weight reagents can be removed either by dialysis or other methods of buffer
exchange, e.g. desalting procedures.
b) As a second method the exchange of the cystein(s) contained in the C4Ad (thioestersequence
and isotypic sequence) or C4Bd (thioestersequence, e.g. for alanine(s) molecules through
genetic engeneering, will primarily preclude C4d-C4d-disulfide bridge formation.
Method 2.: Monomeric recombinant human C4d multimerized by covalent attachment to
multivalent crosslinkers
The recombinant human C4Ad and C4Bd molecules used in this approach have already been
described herein and also in detail in (2), (3). The sequences of these C4d molecules correspond
to the sequences of C4d generated during physiologic cleavage of C4b via factor I (referred to
as "C4Adg" or "C4Bdg" in (2), (3)) with intact cysteine(s).
2.      Clemenza L, Isenman DE. The C4A and C4B isotypic forms of human complement
        fragment C4b have the same intrinsic affinity for complement receptor 1 (CR1/CD35). J
        Immunol 2004; 172 (3): 1670.
3.      van den Elsen JM, Martin A, Wong V, Clemenza L, Rose DR, Isenman DE. X-ray
        crystal structure of the C4d fragment of human complement component C4. J Mol Biol
        2002; 322 (5): 1103.
Two exemplary methods to covalently attach monomeric recombinant human C4d to
commercially available multivalent crosslinkers can be used in accordance with the present
invention.
The first method takes advantage of sulfhydryl-specific crosslinking.

                                                      40
Sulfhydryl-specific crosslinking based on crosslinkers containing either two or three maleimide
reactive groups for selective covalent interaction with protein thiols (reduced cysteines) to form
stable thioesther bonds. These crosslinkers allow for the single C4d molecules to be exposed in
their physiologic conformation (via thioester).
Two suitable sulfhydryl-specific crosslinkers are offered by PIERCE, Thermo Fisher Scientific,
Rockford, IL, USA:
        1) BM(PEG)3 (1,11 -Bismaleimido-triethyleneglycol)                 (Cat.No. 22337)       of
        PIERCE, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL, USA:
                                        D                               0~
                                                BM(PEGh
                                     M,1-Bisma leinidotriethyleneglyccI
                                                MW 35234
                                             Spacer Arm 78 A
        Covalent attachment of C4d to the divalent PEGylated crosslinker "BM(PEG)3" can be
        performed as exemplified in the manufacturer' s instuctions described in detail as
        follows (adapted from http://www.piercenet.com/instructions/2160786.pdf):
        Materials
        - Conjugation Buffer: Phosphate buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.2) or other sulfhydryl-free
        buffer at pH 6.5-7.5. Include 5-10 mM EDTA to help prevent the reoxidation of
        disulfides by trace divalent metals.
        - Crosslinker Stock Solution: Immediately before use, weigh a small quantity of
        crosslinker and dissolve it in dimethylformamide (DMF) or dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)
        at a 5-20mM concentration (e.g., make a 20mM solution of BM(PEG)3 by dissolving
        3.5mg reagent in 0.5mL DMF or DMSO). Alternatively, the reagent can be dissolved at
        <10mg/mL in warm (370 C) water in about 10 minutes. Warming the crosslinker will not
        affect the integrity of the maleimide groups.

                                           41
- Sulfhydryl-containing protein: C4Ad or C4Bd-molecules to be reacted with maleimide
compounds must have free (reduced) sulfhydryls. Peptide disulfide bonds can be reduced
with Thermo Scientific Immobilized TCEP Disulfide Reducing Gel (Product No.
77712). Extraneous sulfhydryl-containing components in the reaction buffers during
conjugation should be avoided (e.g., DTT), as they react with the maleimide portion of
the reagent, inhibiting and reducing conjugation efficiency of the intended target. The
maleimide group reacts predominantly with free sulfhydryls at pH 6.5-7.5, forming
stable thioesther bonds. At pH values >7.5, reactivity toward primary amines and
hydrolysis of the maleimide groups can occur. At pH 7, the maleimide group is ~1000
times more reactive toward a free sulfhydryl than to an amine.
- Avoid sulfhydryl-containing components during conjugation, as these will react with
the maleimide portion of the reagent, thereby inhibiting and reducing conjugation
efficiency of the intended molecule.
- Desalting column (e.g., ZebaTM Spin Desalting Columns) or dialysis unit to separate
crosslinked proteins from excess nonreacted crosslinker.
Example for C4d Crosslinking procedure
 1. C4Ad or C4Bd is incubated in Conjugation Buffer at about 0.1mM.
2. Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein(s) at about 0.05mM final concentration
    - i.e. about two-fold molar excess of C4d as compared to the divalent crosslinker
    - to avoid possible damage to the protein, the amount of organic solvent should be
       limited to 40% in the final reaction mixture.
3. Reaction mixture can be incubated for 1 hour at room temperature or for 2 hours at
     40 C.
4. Reaction can be stopped by the removal of excess nonreacted reagent by desalting
     or dialysis.
2.) TMEA (Tris(2-maleimidoethyl)amine)         (Cat.No. 33043) of PIERCE, Thermo Fisher
Scientific, Rockford, IL, USA:

                                           42
                                                  0
                                         TMEA
                               Tris-2-maleimidoethy0arine
                                        MW 385.3i
                                     Specer Am 10.3 A
Covalent attachment of C4d to the trivalent crosslinker "TMEA" can be performed as
exemplified in the manufacturer' s instructions described in detail as follows (adapted
from http://www.piercenet.com/instructions/2160800.pdf)
Materials
- Conjugation Buffer: Phosphate buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.2) or other sulfhydryl-free
buffer at pH 6.5-7.5. Include 5-10 mM EDTA to help prevent the reoxidation of
disulfides by trace divalent metals.
- Crosslinker Stock Solution: TMEA dissolves in DMF or DMSO up to 10mg/100pL
(i.e., 100mg/mL). A working stock solution at 1-100mg/mL can be diluted in additional
organic solvent. To avoid possible damage to the protein, limit the amount of organic
solvent to 40% in the final reaction mixture.
- Sulfhydryl-containing protein: Maleimides react with SH groups at a pH of 6.5-7.5,
forming stable thioesther linkages. The reaction is complete in 2 hours at room
temperature or ~4 hours at 4'C.
- Sulfhydryl-containing protein: C4Ad or C4Bd-molecules to be reacted with maleimide
compounds must have free (reduced) sulfhydryls. Peptide disulfide bonds can be reduced
with Thermo Scientific Immobilized TCEP Disulfide Reducing Gel (Product No.
77712). Extraneous sulfhydryl-containing components in the reaction buffers during
conjugation should be avoided (e.g., DTT), as they react with the maleimide portion of
the reagent, inhibiting and reducing conjugation efficiency of the intended target. The
maleimide group reacts predominantly with free sulfhydryls at pH 6.5-7.5, forming

                                                  43
       stable thioesther bonds. At pH values >7.5, reactivity toward primary amines and
       hydrolysis of the maleimide groups can occur. At pH 7, the maleimide group is ~1000
       times more reactive toward a free sulfhydryl than to an amine.
       - Avoid sulfhydryl-containing components during conjugation, as these will react with
       the maleimide portion of the reagent, thereby inhibiting and reducing conjugation
       efficiency of the intended molecule.
       - Desalting column (e.g., ZebaTM Spin Desalting Columns) or dialysis unit to separate
       crosslinked proteins from excess nonreacted crosslinker.
       Example for C4d Crosslinking procedure
        1. C4Ad or C4Bd is incubated in Conjugation Buffer at about 0.1mM.
       2. Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein(s) at about 0.03mM final concentration
           - i.e. about three-fold molar excess of C4d as compared to the trivalent crosslinker
           - to avoid possible damage to the protein, the amount of organic solvent should be
              limited to 40% in the final reaction mixture.
       3. Reaction mixture can be incubated for 1 hour at room temperature or for 2 hours at
             40 C.
       4. Reaction can be stopped by the removal of excess nonreacted reagent by desalting
             or dialysis.
The second method takes advantage of amine-specific crosslinking.
Amine-specific crosslinking based on crosslinkers containing either two or three reactive N
hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS ester) for selective covalent interaction with primary amines to
form stable complexes. These crosslinkers bind C4d molecules in a random fashion, thus,
allowing for a variety of different conformations.
        1.) BS(PEG)5 (Bis(succinimidyl) penta(ethylene glycol)         (Cat.No.       21581)    of
       PIERCE, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL, USA:

                                           44
                            a                                        aM
                                         BIS(PEG 5
                           Bis~su cirnmidy) penta(ethylene glycol
                                         MW 532.5c
                                      Spacer Arn 21.7 A
Covalent attachment of C4d to the divalent PEGylated crosslinker "BS(PEG)5" can be
performed as exemplified in the manufacturer' s instuctions described in detail as
follows (adapted from http://www.piercenet.com/instructions/2161765.pdf)
Materials
- Conjugation Buffer: Conjugation Buffer: Phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.2) or
other amine-free buffer (e.g. carbonate/bicarbonate, HEPES and borate buffers) at pH 7
8.
- Crosslinker Stock Solution: BS(PEG)5 reagent is a viscous pale liquid that is difficult
to weigh and dispense. To facilitate handling, a stock solution should be made
immediately before first use by dissolving the crosslinker in dry (anhydrous, molecular
sieve-treated) organic solvent, such as dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Reagent exposure to
moisture should be minimized because the NHS-ester reactive group is susceptible to
hydrolysis. Unused stock solution should be stored in a moisture-free condition (e.g.,
capped under an inert gas such as argon or nitrogen) at -20'C, and reagent vial should be
equilibrated to room temperature before opening to avoid moisture condensation inside
the container. Exposure to air should be minimized.
A 250mM Crosslinker Stock Solution can be prepared by dissolving 100mg of
BS(PEG)5 (i.e. entire contents of vial, -100pL) in following -650pL of dry DMSO to
make 750pL total.
- Buffers containing primary amines (e.g., Tris or glycine) during conjugation should be
avoided because they will compete with the intended reaction.
- Desalting column (e.g., ZebaTM Spin Desalting Columns) or dialysis unit to separate
crosslinked proteins from excess nonreacted crosslinker.
Example for C4d Crosslinking procedure
 1. C4Ad or C4Bd is incubated in Conjugation Buffer at about 0. 1mM.

                                              45
2. Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein at about 0.05mM final concentration
- i.e. two-fold molar excess of C4d as compared to the divalent crosslinker to generate
small C4Bd S(PEG)5 complexes, or
Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein(s) in excess (e.g. at up to ImM final
concentration)
- i.e. up to ten-fold molar excess of crosslinker to generate larger complexes
- to avoid possible damage to the protein, the amount of organic solvent should be
   limited to 40% in the final reaction mixture.
3. Reaction mixture can be incubated for 1 hour at room temperature or for 2 hours at
    40 C.
4. Reaction can be stopped by the removal of excess non-reacted reagent by desalting
    or dialysis.
2.) TSAT (Tris-succinimidyl aminotriacetate)                  (Cat.No. 33063) of PIERCE, Thermo
Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL, USA:
                                         00
                                                          0N1
                                             TSAT
                              Tris-suerinirnidyl aminetriacetete
                                           MW 482.36
                                       Spacer Arn 4.  A
Covalent attachment of C4d to the trivalent crosslinker "TSAT" can be performed as
exemplified in the manufacturer' s instructions descibed in detail as follows (adapted
from http://www.piercenet.com/instructions/2160860.pdf)
Materials

                                                  46
       - Conjugation Buffer: Phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.2) or other amine-free
       buffer (e.g. carbonate/bicarbonate, HEPES and borate buffers) at pH 7-8.
       - Crosslinker Stock Solution: TSAT reagent is moisture-sensitive; the NHS ester moiety
       readily hydrolyzes and becomes non-reactive. Therefore, stock solutions cannot be
       prepared for storage. To avoid moisture condensation onto the product, vial must be
       equilibrated to room temperature before opening. Prepare TSAT immediately before use.
       TSAT is water-insoluble and must first be dissolved in DMSO or DMF and then added
       to an aqueous reaction medium.
       - Buffers containing primary amines (e.g., Tris or glycine) during conjugation should be
       avoided because they will compete with the intended reaction.
       - Desalting column (e.g., ZebaTM Spin Desalting Columns) or dialysis unit to separate
       crosslinked proteins from excess nonreacted crosslinker.
       Example for C4d Crosslinking procedure
        1. C4Ad or C4Bd is incubated in Conjugation Buffer at about 0.1mM.
       2. Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein at about 0.03mM final concentration
          - i.e. three-fold molar excess of C4d as compared to the trivalent crosslinker to
            generate small C4Bd S(PEG)5 complexes, or
          Crosslinker is added to the dissolved protein(s) in excess (e.g. at up to 1mM final
          concentration)
          - i.e. up to ten-fold molar excess of crosslinker to generate larger complexes
          - to avoid possible damage to the protein, the amount of organic solvent should be
             limited to 40% in the final reaction mixture.
       3. Reaction mixture can be incubated for 1 hour at room temperature or for 2 hours at
           40 C.
       4. Reaction can be stopped by the removal of excess non-reacted reagent by desalting
           or dialysis.
The following relates to C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) to
be used in accordance with the present invention.
The term "C4d" and "C4d polypeptide" has been described herein above in detail. The terms
"complement split product C4d" and "C4d" and the like can be used interchangeably herein.

                                               47
The meaning of the term "polypeptide" and "nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" are well
known in the art and are used accordingly in context of the present invention. For example,
"nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" as used herein refer(s) to all forms of naturally occurring
or recombinantly generated types of nucleic acids and/or nucleic acid sequences/molecules as
well as to chemically synthesized nucleic          acid sequences/molecules. This term also
encompasses nucleic acid analogs and nucleic acid derivatives such as e.g. locked DNA, PNA,
oligonucleotide thiophosphates and substituted ribo-oligonucleotides. Furthermore, the term
"nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecules(s)" also refers to any molecule that comprises nucleotides
or nucleotide analogs.
Preferably, the term "nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" refers to deoxyribonucleic acid
(DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). The "nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" may be made
by synthetic chemical methodology known to one of ordinary skill in the art, or by the use of
recombinant technology, or may be isolated from natural sources, or by a combination thereof.
The DNA and RNA may optionally comprise unnatural nucleotides and may be single or double
stranded. "Nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" also refers to sense and anti-sense DNA and
RNA, that is, a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a specific sequence of
nucleotides in DNA and/or RNA.
Furthermore, the term "nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" may refer to DNA or RNA or
hybrids thereof or any modification thereof that is known in the state of the art (see, e.g., US
5525711, US 4711955, US 5792608 or EP 302175 for examples of modifications). The nucleic
acid molecule(s) may be single- or double-stranded, linear or circular, natural or synthetic, and
without any size limitation. For instance, the nucleic acid molecule(s) may be genomic DNA,
cDNA, mRNA, antisense RNA, ribozymal or a DNA encoding such RNAs or chimeroplasts
(Colestrauss, Science (1996), 1386-1389). Said nucleic acid molecule(s) may be in the form of a
plasmid or of viral DNA or RNA. "Nucleic acid sequence(s)/molecule(s)" may also refer to (an)
oligonucleotide(s), wherein any of the state of the art modifications such as phosphothioates or
peptide nucleic acids (PNA) are included.
The nucleic acid sequence of C4d polypeptides of other species than the herein provided human
and sequences for C4d polypeptides can be identified by the skilled person using methods
known in the art, e.g. by using hybridization assays or by using alignments, either manually or
by using computer programs such as those mentioned herein below in connection with the

                                                   48
definition of the term "hybridization" and degrees of similarity. The nucleic acid sequence
encoding for orthologs of human C4d may be at least 60% similar to the nucleic acid sequence
as shown in SEQ ID NO. 1 and SEQ ID NO: 3, respectively. More preferably, the nucleic acid
sequence encoding for orthologs of human C4d is at least 65%, 70%,            7 5 %, 80%, 85%, 90%,
91%,  9 2 %, 9 3 %, 9 4 %, 9 5 %, 96%, 9 7 % or 98% similar to the nucleic acid sequence as shown in
SEQ ID NO. 1 and SEQ ID NO: 3 respectively, wherein the higher values are preferred. Most
preferably, the nucleic acid sequence encoding for orthologs of human C4d is at least 99%
similar to the nucleic acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO. 1 and SEQ ID NO: 3,
respectively. The term "orthologous protein" or "orthologous gene" as used herein refers to
proteins and genes, respectively, in different species that are similar to each other because they
originated from a common ancestor. As mentioned above, the use of such "orthologous
protein(s)" or "orthologous gene(s)/nucleic acid molecules" is envisaged in context of the
present invention.
Hybridization assays for the characterization of orthologues of known nucleic acid sequences
are well known in the art; see e.g. Sambrook, Russell "Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory
Manual", Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, N.Y. (2001); Ausubel, "Current Protocols in
Molecular Biology", Green Publishing Associates and Wiley Interscience, N.Y. (1989).
The term "hybridization" or "hybridizes" as used herein may relate to hybridizations under
stringent or non-stringent conditions. If not further specified, the conditions are preferably non
stringent. Said hybridization conditions may be established according to conventional protocols
described, e.g., in Sambrook (2001) loc. cit.; Ausubel (1989) loc. cit., or Higgins and Hames
(Eds.) "Nucleic acid hybridization, a practical approach" IRL Press Oxford, Washington DC,
(1985). The setting of conditions is well within the skill of the artisan and can be determined
according to protocols described in the art. Thus, the detection of only specifically hybridizing
sequences will usually require stringent hybridization and washing conditions such as, for
example, the highly stringent hybridization conditions of 0.1 x SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65'C or 2 x
SSC, 60-C, 0.1 % SDS. Low stringent hybridization conditions for the detection of homologous
or not exactly complementary sequences may, for example, be set at 6 x SSC, 1% SDS at 65'C.
As is well known, the length of the probe and the composition of the nucleic acid to be
determined constitute further parameters of the hybridization conditions.
In accordance with the present invention, the terms "similarity" or "percent similarity" or
"identical" or "percent identity" or "percentage identity" or "sequence identity" ("similar" and

                                                 49
"identity" can be used interchangeably herein) in the context of two or more nucleic acid
sequences refers to two or more sequences or subsequences that are the same, or that have a
specified percentage of nucleotides that are the same (preferably at least 60% identity, more
preferably at least 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97% or
98% identity, most preferably at least 99% identity), when compared and aligned for maximum
correspondence over a window of comparison, or over a designated region as measured using a
sequence comparison algorithm as known in the art, or by manual alignment and visual
inspection. Sequences having, for example, 75% to 90% or greater sequence identity may be
considered to be substantially identical. Such a definition also applies to the complement of a
test sequence. Preferably the described identity exists over a region that is at least about 15 to 25
nucleotides in length, more preferably, over a region that is at least about 50 to 100 nucleotides
in length and most preferably, over a region that is at least about 800 to 1400 nucleotides in
length, or the full length of a sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 3. Those
having skill in the art will know how to determine percent identity between/among sequences
using, for example, algorithms such as those based on CLUSTALW computer program
(Thompson Nucl. Acids Res. 2 (1994), 4673-4680) or FASTDB (Brutlag Comp. App. Biosci. 6
(1990), 237-245), as known in the art.
Although the FASTDB algorithm typically does not consider internal non-matching deletions or
additions in sequences, i.e., gaps, in its calculation, this can be corrected manually to avoid an
overestimation of the % identity. CLUSTALW, however, does take sequence gaps into account
in its identity calculations. Also available to those having skill in this art are the BLAST and
BLAST 2.0 algorithms (Altschul, (1997) Nucl. Acids Res. 25:3389-3402; Altschul (1993) J.
Mol. Evol. 36:290-300; Altschul (1990) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410). The BLASTN program for
nucleic acid sequences uses as defaults a word length (W) of 11, an expectation (E) of 10, M=5,
N=4, and a comparison of both strands. The BLOSUM62 scoring matrix (Henikoff (1989)
PNAS 89:10915) uses alignments (B) of 50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=4, and a comparison
of both strands.
In order to determine whether a nucleotide residue in a nucleic acid sequence corresponds to a
certain position in the nucleotide sequence of e.g. SEQ ID NO. 1 and SEQ ID NO: 3,
respectively, the skilled person can use means and methods well-known in the art, e.g.,
alignments, either manually or by using computer programs such as those mentioned herein. For
example, BLAST 2.0, which stands for Basic Local Alignment Search Tool BLAST (Altschul

                                                    50
(1997), loc.  cit.; Altschul (1993),  loc. cit.; Altschul (1990), loc. cit.), can be used to search for
local sequence alignments. BLAST, as discussed above, produces alignments of nucleotide
sequences to determine sequence similarity. Because of the local nature of the alignments,
BLAST is especially useful in determining exact matches or in identifying similar sequences.
The fundamental unit of BLAST algorithm output is the High-scoring Segment Pair (HSP). An
HSP consists of two sequence fragments of arbitrary but equal lengths whose alignment is
locally maximal and for which the alignment score meets or exceeds a threshold or cut-off score
set by the user. The BLAST approach is to look for HSPs between a query sequence and a
database sequence, to evaluate the statistical significance of any matches found, and to report
only those matches which satisfy the user-selected threshold of significance. The parameter E
establishes the statistically significant threshold for reporting database sequence matches. E is
interpreted as the upper bound of the expected frequency of chance occurrence of an HSP (or set
of HSPs) within the context of the entire database search. Any database sequence whose match
satisfies E is reported in the program output.
Analogous computer techniques using BLAST (Altschul (1997), loc. cit.; Altschul (1993), loc.
cit.; Altschul (1990), loc. cit.) are used to search for identical or related molecules in nucleotide
databases such as GenBank or EMBL. This analysis is much faster than multiple membrane
based hybridizations. In addition, the sensitivity of the computer search can be modified to
determine whether any particular match is categorized as exact or similar. The basis of the
search is the product score which is defined as:
                         % sequence identity x % maximum BLAST score
                                                    100
and it takes into account both the degree of similarity between two sequences and the length of
the sequence match. For example, with a product score of 40, the match will be exact within a 1
2% error; and at 70, the match will be exact. Similar molecules are usually identified by
selecting those which show product scores between 15 and 40, although lower scores may
identify related molecules. Another example for a program capable of generating sequence
alignments is the CLUSTALW computer program (Thompson (1994) Nucl. Acids Res. 2:4673
4680) or FASTDB (Brutlag (1990) Comp. App. Biosci. 6:237-245), as known in the art.
The explanations and definitions given herein above in respect of "similarity of nucleic acid
sequences" apply, mutatis mutandis, to "amino acid sequences", in particular an amino acid
sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO. 2 and SEQ ID NO: 4, respectively. The polypeptide to be

                                                  51
used    in    accordance     with   the   present    invention  may    have    at   least    60   %
homology/similarity/identity to the polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as depicted in
SEQ ID NO. 2 and SEQ ID NO: 4, respectively. More preferably, the polypeptide has at least
65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97% or 98%
similarity/identity to the polypeptide having the amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
NO. 2 and SEQ ID NO: 4, wherein the higher values are preferred. Most preferably, the
polypeptide has at least 99% similarity/identity to the polypeptide having the amino acid
sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO. 2 and SEQ ID NO: 4, respectively.
The C4d polypeptide (as shown, for example, in SEQ ID NO: 2 or SEQ ID NO: 4) may have
one or more (e.g. up to 280 amino acids, preferably up to 100 amino acids) amino acids deleted,
inserted, added and/or substituted provided that the C4d polypeptide maintains essentially the
biological activity (e.g. the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to induce/trigger/stimulate
an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to
down-regulate a pro-inflammatory response)) which is characteristic of the C4d polypeptides to
be used in context of the present invention. The C4d polypeptide (as shown, for example, in
SEQ ID NO: 2 or SEQ ID NO: 4) to be used in accordance with the present invention may, for
example, have up to 280, 270, 260, 250, 240, 230, 220, 210, 200, 190, 180, 170, 160, 150, 140,
130, 120 or 110 amino acids deleted, inserted, added and/or substituted provided that the C4d
polypeptide maintains essentially the biological activity (e.g. the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or
the capacity to induce/trigger/stimulate an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise the capacity
to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to down-regulate a pro-inflammatory response)) which is
characteristic of the C4d polypeptides to be used in context of the present invention. Preferably,
the C4d polypeptide (as shown, for example, in SEQ ID NO: 2 or SEQ ID NO: 4) to be used in
accordance with the present invention may, for example, have up to 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50, 40,
30, 20 or up to 10 amino acids deleted, inserted, added and/or substituted provided that the C4d
polypeptide maintains essentially the biological activity (e.g. the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or
the capacity to induce/trigger/stimulate an anti-inflammatory response (or likewise the capacity
to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to down-regulate a pro-inflammatory response)) which is
characteristic of the C4d polypeptides to be used in context of the present invention. An
exemplary C4d polypeptide to be used in accordance with the present invention may, for
example, have 39 amino acids deleted at the N-terminus of SEQ ID NO: 2 and/or have 15 amino
acids deleted at the C-terminus of SEQ ID NO: 2.

                                                 52
Preferably, any such deletions, insertions, additions and/or substitutions (in this context
particularly substitutions) are conservative, i.e. amino acids are substituted by amino acids
having the same or similar characteristics. For example, a hydrophobic amino acid will
preferably be substituted by another hydrophobic amino acid and so on.
Further, amino acids may be added to the herein above described C4d polypeptides. For
example, at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 120, 140, 160, 180, 200,
220, 240, 260 and up to 280 amino acids (or even more amino acids) may be added to the N
terminus of the polypeptides In addition, or in the alternative, at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40,
50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100 and up to 110 amino acids (or even more amino acids) may be added to
the C-terminus of the polypeptides without deferring from the gist of the present invention.
One exemplary C4d peptide to be used herein may comprise or consist of the amino acid
sequence shown in SEQ ID NO.6 or it may comprise or consist of the amino acid sequence
shown in SEQ ID NO: 8. The C4d peptide may comprise or consist of fragments of these
exemplary amino acid sequences, provided C4d polypeptide maintains essentially the biological
activity (e.g. the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to induce/trigger/stimulate an anti
inflammatory response (or likewise the capacity to bind ILT4 and/or the capacity to down
regulate a pro-inflammatory response)) which is characteristic of the C4d polypeptides to be
used in context of the present invention. The exemplary C4d peptide may also comprise or
consist of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule having the nucleic acid
sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID NO. 7.
Accordingly, the exemplary C4d peptide may a C4d polypeptide selected from the group
consisting of
(a)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID NO: 7;
(b)     a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
NO:6 or SEQ ID NO: 8;
(c)     a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)     a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO: 8;
(e)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic

                                                53
acid molecule   hybridizing  under stringent  conditions to the complementary strand of nucleic
acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(f)     a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)     a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence of a
nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
As explained above, it was surprisingly found herein that C4d can be used in the treatment of
inflammatory conditions. As explained herein above "inflammatory conditions" are pathological
conditions which are associated with increased levels of inflammatory markers/marker proteins
like TNFgIL -6 and the like. Accordingly, the present invention relates to a method for treating
an inflammatory condition comprising the administration of an effective amount of complement
split product C4d to a subject in need of such a treatment. The present invention also relates to
the use of C4d for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of an
inflammatory condition. Further, the present invention relates to a method for suppressing or
ameliorating an excessive immune response in a subject comprising the administration of an
effective amount of complement split product C4d. Also a method for preventing, reducing or
delaying graft rejection in a subject comprising the administration of an effective amount of
complement split product C4d is subject of the present invention. Preferably, the subject is a
human. The definitions and explanations in respect of "C4d" and "inflammatory conditions" and
the like given herein above, apply, mutatis mutandis, in this context.
Exemplary inflammatory conditions to be treated in accordance with the present invention are
inflammatory diseases or inflammatory disorders. For example, the following inflammatory
conditions may be treated: graft rejection, graft versus host disease, an autoimmune disease,or
atopy. Preferably, the inflammatory conditions is graft rejection or graft versus host disease.
Autoimmune diseases to be treated with the herein provided and defined C4d may be
autoimmune dermatose, collagen disease, dermatomyositis, rheumatoid arthritis, alopecia areata,
ankylosing    spondylitis,   antiphospholipid    syndrome,     autoimmune     Addison' s     disease,
autoimmune haemolytic anemia, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune inner ear disease,
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura
(ATP), Behcet' s disease, bullous immune disease, bilous pemphigoid, cardiomyopathy, celiac

                                                 54
disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy,
cicatricial pemphigoid, cold agglutinin disease, Crest syndrome, Crohn' s disease, Dego' s
disease, discoid lupus, (systemic) lupus erythematosus, erosive arthritis, essential mixed
cryoglobulinemia, fibromyalgia, fibromysoitis, grave' s disease, guallainbarre, hashimoto' s
thyroiditis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP), IgA
nephropathy, insuline dependent diabetes (Type I), juvenile arthritis, Menier' s disease, mixed
connective tissue disease, multiple sclerosis, myastenia gravis, pemphigus vulgaris, pernicious
anemia, polychondritis, polyglandular syndromes, polymyalgia rheumatica, polymyositis,
primary biliary cirrhosis, psoriasis, Raynaud' s phenomenon, Reiter' s syndrome, rheumatic
fever, sarcoidosis, scleroderma, Sjogren' s syndrome stiff-man syndrome, ulcerative colitis,
vasculitis, or vitiligo.
Preferably, rheumatoid arthritis or lupus erythematosus (particularly preferably systemic lupus
erythematosus) is to be treated in accordance with the present invention.
The vasculitis may be polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu arteritis, temporal arteritis/gian cell
arteritis, uveitis, or Wegener' s granulomatosis.    The atopy may be cutaneous, mucosal or
ungualor cutaneous atopy, such as eczema, respiratory atopy or gingival hypertrophy.          The
dermatomyositis may be dermatomyositis juvenile.
The terms "treatment", "treating" and the like are used herein to generally mean obtaining a
desired pharmacological and/or physiological effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of
completely or partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and/or may be therapeutic in
terms of partially or completely curing a disease and/or adverse effect attributed to the disease.
The term "treatment" as used herein covers any treatment of a disease in a subject and includes:
(a) preventing a disease occurring in a subject which may be predisposed to the disease; (b)
inhibiting the disease, i.e. arresting its development; or (c) relieving the disease, i.e. causing
regression of the disease.
A "patient" or "subject" for the purposes of the present invention includes both humans and
other animals, particularly mammals, and other organisms. Thus, the methods are applicable to
both human therapy and veterinary applications. Preferably, the patient is a mammal, and most
preferably the patient is a human.

                                                   55
In the following, pharmaceutical compositions comprising C4d as defined herein (e.g. C4d
polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising one
or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof)) to be prepared and
used in accordance with the present invention are described.
The pharmaceutical composition will be formulated and dosed in a fashion consistent with good
medical practice, taking into account the clinical condition of the individual subject/patient, the
site of delivery of the pharmaceutical composition, the method of administration, the scheduling
of administration, and other factors known to practitioners. The "effective amount" of the
pharmaceutical composition for purposes herein is thus determined by such considerations. The
term "effective amount" as used herein refers in particular to a tolerable dose of C4d/C4d
multimer as defined herein which is high enough to cause, for example, the downregulation of a
pro-inflammatory response without or essentially without major toxic effects. Such effective and
non-toxic doses may be determined e.g. by dose escalation studies described in the art and
should be below the dose inducing severe adverse side events (dose limiting toxicity, DLT).
The skilled person knows that the effective amount of pharmaceutical composition administered
to an individual will, inter alia, depend on the nature of the compound. For example, if said
compound is a (poly)peptide or protein the total pharmaceutically effective amount of
pharmaceutical composition administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 1
pg protein /kg/day to 10 mg protein /kg/day of patient body weight, although, as noted above,
this will be subject to therapeutic discretion. More preferably, this dose is at least 0.01 mg
protein /kg/day, and most preferably for humans between about 0.01 and 1 mg protein /kg/day.
If given continuously, the pharmaceutical composition is typically administered at a dose rate of
about 1 pg/kg/hour to about 50 tg/kg/hour, either by 1-4 injections per day or by continuous
subcutaneous infusions, for example, using a mini-pump. An intravenous bag solution may also
be employed. The length of treatment needed to observe changes and the interval following
treatment for responses to occur appears to vary depending on the desired effect. The particular
amounts may be determined by conventional tests which are well known to the person skilled in
the art.
Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be administered parenterally (e.g in form of
an injection solution). Also oral, rectal, intracisternal, intravaginal, intraperitoneal, topical (as by
powders, ointments, drops or transdermal patch), bucal, intravitreal (e.g. injected into the

                                                  56
vitreous body), intracameral (e.g. injected into the anterior chamber) administration or
administration as an oral or nasal spray is envisaged.
Pharmaceutical    compositions of the invention preferably comprise a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. By "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" is meant a non-toxic solid,
semisolid or liquid filler, diluent, encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type.
The term "parenteral" as used herein refers to modes of administration which include
intravenous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intrasternal, subcutaneous and intraarticular injection
and infusion. Preferably, the pharmaceutical compositions provided herein are to be
administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly. Preferably, the complement split
product C4d (like the complement split product C4d multimer as defined herein) is to be
administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
The methods of treating an inflammatory condition, suppressing or ameliorating an excessive
immune response, or preventing, reducing or delaying graft rejection, provided herein can
comprise intravenous subcutaneous or intramuscular admininistration of an effective amount of
complement split product C4d (like a multimer thereof) as defined herein.
The pharmaceutical composition is also suitably administered by sustained release systems.
Suitable examples of sustained-release compositions include semi-permeable polymer matrices
in the form of shaped articles, e.g., films, or mirocapsules. Sustained-release matrices include
polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919, EP 58,481), copolymers of L-glutamic acid and gamma
ethyl-L-glutamate (Sidman, U. et al., Biopolymers 22:547-556 (1983)), poly (2-hydroxyethyl
methacrylate) (R. Langer et al., J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 15:167-277 (1981), and R. Langer,
Chem. Tech. 12:98-105 (1982)), ethylene vinyl acetate (R. Langer et al., Id.) or poly-D-(-)-3
hydroxybutyric acid (EP 133,988). Sustained release pharmaceutical composition also include
liposomally entrapped compound. Liposomes containing the pharmaceutical composition are
prepared by methods known per se: DE 3,218,121; Epstein et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA)
82:3688-3692 (1985); Hwang et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA) 77:4030-4034 (1980); EP
52,322; EP 36,676; EP 88,046; EP 143,949; EP 142,641; Japanese Pat. Appl. 83-118008; U.S.
Pat. Nos. 4,485,045 and 4,544,545; and EP 102,324. Ordinarily, the liposomes are of the small
(about 200-800 Angstroms) unilamellar type in which the lipid content is greater than about 30
mol. percent cholesterol, the selected proportion being adjusted for the optimal therapy.

                                                  57
For parenteral administration, the pharmaceutical composition is formulated generally by
mixing it at the desired degree of purity, in a unit dosage injectable form (solution, suspension,
or emulsion), with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, i.e., one that is non-toxic to recipients
at the dosages and concentrations employed and is compatible with other ingredients of the
formulation.
Generally, the formulations are prepared by contacting the components of the pharmaceutical
composition uniformly and intimately with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or
both. Then, if necessary, the product is shaped into the desired formulation. Preferably the
carrier is a parenteral carrier, more preferably a solution that is isotonic with the blood of the
recipient. Examples of such carrier vehicles include water, saline, Ringer's solution, and
dextrose solution. Non aqueous vehicles such as fixed oils and ethyl oleate are also useful
herein, as well as liposomes. The carrier suitably contains minor amounts of additives such as
substances that enhance isotonicity and chemical stability. Such materials are non-toxic to
recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate,
citrate, succinate, acetic acid, and other organic acids or their salts; antioxidants such as ascorbic
acid; low molecular weight (less than about ten residues) (poly)peptides, e.g., polyarginine or
tripeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers
such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids, such as glycine, glutamic acid, aspartic acid, or
arginine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other carbohydrates including cellulose or its
derivatives, glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugar alcohols such
as mannitol or sorbitol; counterions such as sodium; and/or nonionic surfactants such as
polysorbates, poloxamers, or PEG.
The components of the pharmaceutical composition to be used for therapeutic administration
must be sterile. Sterility is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration
membranes (e.g., 0.2 micron membranes). Therapeutic components of the pharmaceutical
composition generally are placed into a container having a sterile access port, for example, an
intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle.
The components of the pharmaceutical composition ordinarily will be stored in unit or multi
dose containers, for example, sealed ampoules or vials, as an aqueous solution or as a
lyophilized formulation for reconstitution. As an example of a lyophilized formulation, 10-ml
vials are filled with 5 ml of sterile-filtered 1% (w/v) aqueous solution, and the resulting mixture

                                                 58
is lyophilized. The infusion solution is prepared by reconstituting the lyophilized compound(s)
using bacteriostatic Water-for-Injection.
C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) / C4d multimers comprising
one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) to be used in
accordance with the present invention may be prepared by standard (biotechnological) methods
which are well known in the art and have been described in detail herein above.
C4d as defined above (e.g C4d polypeptide(s) (or a functional fragment or derivative thereof) /
C4d multimers comprising one or more C4d polypeptides (or a functional fragment or derivative
thereof) may also be used in gene therapy. For example, nucleic acids comprising sequences
encoding C4d as defined may be administered to treat an inflammatory condition. Gene therapy
refers to therapy performed by the administration to a subject of an expressed or expressible
nucleic acid. In this aspect of the invention, the nucleic acids produce their encoded protein that
mediates a therapeutic effect.
Any of the methods for gene therapy available in the art can be used according to the present
invention. Exemplary methods are described below. For general reviews of the methods of gene
therapy, see Goldspiel et al., Clinical Pharmacy 12:488-505 (1993); Wu and Wu, Biotherapy
3:87-95 (1991); Tolstoshev, Ann. Rev. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 32:573-596 (1993); Mulligan,
Science 260:926-932 (1993); and Morgan and Anderson, Ann. Rev. Biochem. 62:191-217
(1993); May, TIBTECH 1 1(5):155-215 (1993).            Methods commonly known in the art of
recombinant DNA technology which can be used are described in Ausubel et al. (eds.), Current
Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, NY (1993); and Kriegler, Gene Transfer
and Expression, A Laboratory Manual, Stockton Press, NY (1990).
In this aspect, a composition of the invention comprises nucleic acids encoding C4d / C4d
multimer(s) as defined herein, said nucleic acids being part of an expression vector that
expresses a gene encoding C4d in a suitable host. Such nucleic acids have promoters, e.g.
heterologous promoters, operably linked to the coding region, said promoter being inducible or
constitutive, and, optionally, tissue-specific. Nucleic acid molecules may be used in which the
C4d coding sequences and, optionally, any other desired sequences are flanked by regions that
promote homologous recombination at a desired site in the genome, thus providing for
intrachromosomal expression of the C4d encoding nucleic acids (Koller and Smithies, Proc.

                                                  59
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:8932-8935 (1989); Zijlstra et al., Nature 342:435-438 (1989). Delivery
of the nucleic acids into a patient may be either direct, in which case the patient is directly
exposed to the nucleic acid or nucleic acid- carrying vectors, or indirect, in which case, cells are
first transformed with the nucleic acids in vitro, then transplanted into the patient. These two
approaches are known, respectively, as in vivo or ex vivo gene therapy.
The nucleic acid sequences may be directly administered in vivo, where it is expressed to
produce the encoded product. This can be accomplished by any of numerous methods known in
the art, e.g., by constructing them as part of an appropriate nucleic acid expression vector and
administering it so that they become intracellular, e.g., by infection using defective or attenuated
retrovirals or other viral vectors (see U.S. Patent No. 4,980,286), or by direct injection of naked
DNA, or by use of microparticle bombardment (e.g., a gene gun; Biolistic, Dupont), or coating
with lipids or cell-surface receptors or transfecting agents, encapsulation in liposomes,
microparticles, or microcapsules, or by administering them in linkage to a peptide which is
known to enter the nucleus, by administering it in linkage to a ligand subject to receptor
mediated endocytosis (see, e.g., Wu and Wu, J. Biol. Chem. 262:4429-4432 (1987)) (which can
be used to target cell types specifically expressing the receptors), etc.
Alternatively, nucleic acid-ligand complexes can be formed in which the ligand comprises a
fusogenic viral peptide to disrupt endosomes, allowing the nucleic acid to avoid lysosomal
degradation. In a further alternative, the nucleic acid can be targeted in vivo for cell specific
uptake and expression, by targeting a specific receptor (see, e.g., PCT Publications WO 92/06
180; WO 92/22715; W092/203 16; W093/14188, WO 93/20221).                  Alternatively, the nucleic
acid can be introduced intracellularly and incorporated within host cell DNA for expression by
homologous recombination (Koller and Smithies, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:8932-8935
(1989); Zijlstra et al., Nature 342:435-438 (1989)).
Also viral vectors that contain nucleic acid sequences encoding C4d / C4d multimers may be
used. For example, a retroviral vector can be used (see Miller et al., Meth. Enzymol. 217:581
599 (1993)). These retroviral vectors contain the components necessary for the correct
packaging of the viral genome and integration into the host cell DNA.              The nucleic acid
sequences encoding C4d to be used in gene therapy are cloned into one or more vectors, which
facilitates delivery of the gene into a patient. More detail about retroviral vectors can be found
in Boesen et al., Biotherapy 6:29 1-302 (1994), which describes the use of a retroviral vector to

                                                 60
deliver the mdr 1 gene to hematopoietic stem cells in order to make the stem cells more resistant
to chemotherapy. Other references illustrating the use of retroviral vectors in gene therapy are:
Clowes et al., J. Clin. Invest. 93:644-651(1994); Klein et al., Blood 83:1467-1473 (1994);
Salmons and Gunzberg, Human Gene Therapy 4:129-141 (1993); and Grossman and Wilson,
Curr. Opin. in Genetics and Devel. 3:110-114 (1993).
Adenoviruses are other viral vectors that can be used in gene therapy. Adenoviruses are
especially attractive vehicles for delivering genes to respiratory epithelia. Adenoviruses
naturally infect respiratory epithelia where they cause a mild disease. Other targets for
adenovirus-based delivery systems are liver, the central nervous system, endothelial cells, and
muscle. Adenoviruses have the advantage of being capable of infecting non-dividing cells.
Kozarsky and Wilson, Current Opinion in Genetics and Development 3:499-503 (1993) present
a review of adenovirus-based gene therapy. Bout et al., Human Gene Therapy 5:3-10 (1994)
demonstrated the use of adenovirus vectors to transfer genes to the respiratory epithelia of
rhesus monkeys. Other instances of the use of adenoviruses in gene therapy can be found in
Rosenfeld et al., Science 252:431-434 (1991); Rosenfeld et al., Cell 68:143- 155 (1992);
Mastrangeli et al., J. Clin. Invest. 91:225-234 (1993); PCT Publication W094/12649; and Wang,
et al., Gene Therapy 2:775-783 (1995).
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) has also been proposed for use in gene therapy (Walsh et al.,
Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 204:289-300 (1993); U.S. Patent No. 5,436,146). Another approach
to gene therapy involves transferring a gene to cells in tissue culture by such methods as
electroporation, lipofection, calcium phosphate mediated transfection, or viral infection.
Usually, the method of transfer includes the transfer of a selectable marker to the cells. The cells
are then placed under selection to isolate those cells that have taken up and are expressing the
transferred gene. Those cells are then delivered to a patient.
In this aspect of the invention, the nucleic acid may be introduced into a cell prior to
administration in vivo of the resulting recombinant cell. Such introduction can be carried out by
any method known in the art, including but not limited to transfection, electroporation,
microinjection, infection with a viral or bacteriophage vector containing the nucleic acid
sequences, cell fusion, chromosome-mediated gene transfer, microcellmediated gene transfer,
spheroplast fusion, etc. Numerous techniques are known in the art for the introduction of foreign
genes into cells (see, e.g., Loeffler and Behr, Meth. Enzymol. 217:599-718 (1993); Cohen et al.,

                                                  61
Meth. Enzymol. 217:718-644 (1993); Clin. Pharma. Ther. 29:69-92m (1985)) and may be used
in accordance with the present invention, provided that the necessary developmental and
physiological functions of the recipient cells are not disrupted. The technique should provide
for the stable transfer of the nucleic acid to the cell, so that the nucleic acid is expressible by the
cell and preferably heritable and expressible by its cell progeny. The resulting recombinant cells
can be delivered to a patient by various methods known in the art. Recombinant blood cells
(e.g., hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells) are preferably administered intravenously. The
amount of cells envisioned for use depends on the desired effect, patient state, etc., and can be
determined by one skilled in the art.
Cells into which a nucleic acid can be introduced for purposes of gene therapy encompass any
desired, available cell type, and include but are not limited to epithelial cells, endothelial cells,
keratinocytes, fibroblasts, muscle cells, hepatocytes; blood cells such as T lymphocytes, B
lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, eosinophils, megakaryocytes, granulocytes;
various stem or progenitor cells, in particular hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells, e.g., as
obtained from bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, peripheral blood, fetal liver, etc. Preferably,
the cell used for gene therapy is autologous to the patient.
If recombinant cells are used in gene therapy, nucleic acid sequences encoding C4d / C4d
multimers are introduced into the cells such that they are expressible by the cells or their
progeny, and the recombinant cells are then administered in vivo for therapeutic effect. In a
specific embodiment, stem or progenitor cells are used. Any stem and/or progenitor cells which
can be isolated and maintained in vitro can potentially be used in accordance with this
embodiment of the present invention (see e.g., PCT Publication WO 94/08598; Stemple and
Anderson, Cell 7 1:973-985 (1992); Rheinwald, Meth. Cell Bio. 21A:229 (1980); and Pittelkow
and Scott, Mayo Clinic Proc. 71:771 (1986)). The nucleic acid to be introduced for purposes of
gene therapy may comprise an inducible promoter operably linked to the coding region, such
that expression of the nucleic acid is controllable by controlling the presence or absence of the
appropriate inducer of transcription.
As mentioned above, in context of the present invention the first receptor, to which C4d
specifically binds, has been identified to be ILT4. Accordingly, the present invention relates to a
protein complex comprising a first protein interacting with a second protein, wherein

                                               62
(i)  the first protein is complement split product C4d, wherein said C4d is a C4d polypeptide
     selected from the group consisting of
(a)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
       C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(b)    a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
       NO:2 (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(c)    a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
       inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity;
(d)    a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
       consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform C4d
       A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd));
(e)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
       nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said polypeptide has C4d
       biological activity;
(f)    a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
       and whereby said polypeptide has C4d biological activity; and
(g)    a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic
       acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
       of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
and
(ii) the second protein is ILT4, wherein said ILT4 is
a)   a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule
     having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 9;
(b)  a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 10;
(c)  a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
     inserted, added or substituted, wherein said polypeptide is capable of interacting with C4d;
(d)  a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having an amino
     acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:10;
(e)  a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule
     hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of nucleic acid

                                                  63
      molecules   as  defined   in (a) or  (d)  and  encoding ILT4 or a functional fragment or
      functional derivative thereof, wherein said polypeptide is capable of interacting with C4d;
(f)   a polypeptide having at least 60 % homology to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to (e),
      whereby said polypeptide is ILT4 or a functional fragment or functional derivative thereof,
      wherein said polypeptide is capable of interacting with C4d;
(g)   a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule
      being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence of a nucleic
      acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e); or
(h)   a fusion protein containing any of (a) to (g).
"C4d" has been described herein above in detail. In particular definitions for determining
"similar" polypeptides with reference to "human C4d" (e.g. as shown in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
C4d-A(C4Ad)) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd))) have been described. These
definitions apply, mutatis mutandis, in this context. Furthermore, these methods can, mutatis
mutandis, be used to determine "similar" polypeptides with reference to "ILT4" (e.g. human
"ILT4" as, for example, shown in SEQ ID NO: 10 or encoded by a nucleic acid molecule having
a sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 9). All the explanations and definitions given above in
context of "C4d" polypeptides apply, therefore, mutatis mutandis to "ILT4" as comprised in the
above protein complex, i.e. the term "C4d" and related sequences could simply be replaced by
"ILT4" and related sequences such as the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 10 and
the nucleic acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 9.
Accordingly, the present invention relates to a method for making the protein complex described
herein above, comprising the steps of:
(a)     providing said first protein and said second protein; and
(b)     contacting said first protein with said second protein.
Further, the present invention relates to a method for selecting modulators of the protein
complex, said method comprising:
(a)     contacting said first protein with said second protein in the presence of one or more test
        compounds; and
(b)     detecting an interaction between said first protein and said second protein.

                                                  64
The contacting step may be conducted in vitro, for example, within a host cell. Accordingly, a
host cell is provided which expresses a second protein as defined herein above, and comprises a
first chimeric expression cassette having a first heterologous promoter operably linked to a first
nucleic acid encoding a first protein as defined above. Further, said second protein may be
expressed in the host cell from a second chimeric expression cassette having a second
heterologous promoter operably linked to a second nucleic acid encoding said second protein.
Further, the present invention relates to a method for selecting modulators of the protein
complex, comprising:
(a)      contacting a test compound with the protein complex; and
(b)      detecting interaction between said first protein and said second protein.
The methods for selecting modulators may be particularly valuable in drug screening assays in
order to identify potential drugs targeting the herein above described protein complex.
Preferably, the modulators are capable of stabilizing the protein complex and/or enhancing the
biological activity of the protein complex. Accordingly, modulators may be selected, if the
detected interaction between said first protein and said second protein indicates a more stable
protein complex and/or enhanced biological activity compared with a control (a control may be
a a sample comprising the protein complex but not a test compound). Such modulators may be
useful for the treatment of inflammatory conditions as defined herein. Also transgenic animals
may be used in corresponding methods; see below.
The present invention relates to the use of a (transgenic) cell or a (transgenic) non-human animal
comprising C4d or a fragment or derivative thereof (e.g. a cell or animal carrying a gene
encoding for C4d) for screening and/or validation of a medicament for the treatment of an anti
inflammatory condition. The term "cell" as used in this context may also comprise a plurality of
cells as well as cells comprised in a tissue. The cell(s) to be used in the screening or validation
method may be obtained from samples from a (transgenic) non-human animal suffering from an
inflammatory condition. Accordingly, the cell may be a human cell. Again, such a cell to be
used in the present screening or validation methods may be comprised in a tissue or tissue
sample, like in a sample biopsy.
The used non-human animal or cell may be transgenic or non transgenic. "Transgenic" in this
context may mean that a heterologous "C4d" (i.e. a "C4d" not naturally occurring in said animal

                                                 65
or cell) as defined herein is overexpressed. Accordingly, the term "transgenic non-human
animal" or "transgenic cell" as used herein refers to an non-human animal or cell, not being a
human, that comprises genetic material different from the genetic material of a corresponding
wild-type animal/cell. "Genetic material" in this context may be any kind of a nucleic acid
molecule, or analogues thereof, for example a nucleic acid molecule, or analogues thereof as
defined herein. "Different" in this context means additional or fewer genetic material with
respect to the genome of the wild-type animal/cell and/or rearranged genetic material, i.e.
genetic material present at a different locus of the genome with respect to the genome of the
wild-type animal/cell. An overview of examples of different expression systems to be used for
generating transgenic cell/animal is, for instance, contained in Methods in Enzymology 153
(1987), 385-516, in Bitter et al. (Methods in Enzymology 153 (1987), 516-544) and in Sawers et
al. (Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology 46 (1996), 1-9), Billman-Jacobe (Current Opinion
in Biotechnology 7 (1996), 500-4), Hockney (Trends in Biotechnology 12 (1994), 456-463),
Griffiths et al., (Methods in Molecular Biology 75 (1997), 427-440). The (transgenic) non
human animal or (transgenic) cell may be or may be derived from a mammal. Non-limiting
examples of the (transgenic) non-human animal or derived (transgenic) cell are selected from
the group consisting of a mouse, a rat, a rabbit or a guinea pig. In accordance with the above, the
present invention relates to a transgenic animal (e.g. a mouse) comprising such a heterologous
"C4d" as defined herein (e.g. a human C4d or a fragment/derivative thereof).
Moreover, the present invention provides an antibody specifically binding to or specifically
recognizing the herein above provided protein complex or the C4d multimer(s).
The antibody may be a polyclonal antibody, a monoclonal antibody, a full antibody
(immunoglobulin), a F(ab)-fragment, a F(ab) 2-fragment, a single-chain antibody, a chimeric
antibody, a CDR-grafted antibody, a bivalent antibody-construct, a bispecific single chain
antibody, a synthetic antibody or a cross-cloned antibody and the like. Polyclonal or monoclonal
antibodies or other antibodies (derived therefrom) can be routinely prepared using, inter alia,
standard immunization protocols; see Ed Harlow, David Lane, (December 1988), Antibodies: A
Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory; or Ed Harlow, David Lane, (December
1998), Portable Protocols (Using Antibodies): A Laboratory Manual 2"d edition, Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory.

                                               66
For example, immunization may involve the intraperitoneal or subcutaneous administration of
the protein/protein complex/multimer (and/or fragments or derivatives thereof and so on) as
defined herein to a mammal (e.g. rodents such as mice, rats, hamsters and the like). A
protein/polypeptide specific for the protein complex or multimer may be used. Preferably,
fragments of the protein/polypeptide/multimer are used.
The present invention is additionally described by way of the following illustrative non-limiting
examples that provide a better understanding of the present invention and of its many
advantages.
Unless otherwise indicated, established methods of recombinant gene technology were used as
described, for example, in Sambrook, Russell "Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual", Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory, N.Y. (2001) which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
The Figures show:
Figure 1. Identification of ILT4 as cellular receptor for C4d. a Flow cytometric analyses
showing the interaction of biotinylated recombinant human C4d (20tg/mL) of both isoforms,
rh-C4Ad and rh-C4Bd, with monocytes and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDC; grey
histograms). Open histograms represent the reactivity of the secondary reagent with these cells.
SA-PE: streptavidin-R-PE. b C4d-reactive cells were enriched from a Bw cell pool expressing a
cDNA library derived from human moDC by multiple rounds of FACS. Data obtained for rh
C4Bd are representative for those obtained using rh-C4Ad (data not shown). Sorting gates are
shown. c Single cell clones derived from the C4d reactive Bw cell pool were probed with rh
C4Ad- and rh-C4Bd. MFI: mean fluorescence intensity. d PCR-amplification of the retroviral
inserts of the C4d-b(C4Bd) binding clones 1.5 and 3.7. e Bw cells expressing a 2kb retroviral
insert encoding immunoglobulin-like transcript 4 (ILT4) were probed with biotinylated rh
C4Ad, rh-C4Bd and C4d isolated from human plasma (ih-C4d) each at 20[tg/mL or ILT4
specific mMAb (grey histograms). Open histograms represent reactivity of C4d molecules and
ILT4 mMAb with control Bw-cells. f Monocytes and moDC were analyzed for ILT4 expression
(grey histograms, ILT4-mMAb; open histograms, isotype control).
Figure 2. Interaction of ILT4 and ILT5v2 with C4d, C4b, C3d, C3b and iC3b. a Flow
cytometric analysis of Bw cells transduced to express ILT2, ILT4 and ILT5-antigenic variants 1

                                                 67
and 2 (ILT5vl and ILT5v2). Expression of ILT-receptors was verified with specific monoclonal
antibodies (left panels, grey histograms; open histograms represent reactivity of ILT MAbs with
mock treated Bw cells). Interaction of Bw cells expressing ILT-molecules and mock-treated Bw
cells with the indicated CSPs (20 [g/mL each) and with MHC-class I tetramers (further panels,
grey histograms). b Interaction of plate-bound CSPs with recombinant human ILT4-Fc fusion
protein (rh-ILT4-Fc) or control Fc-fusion protein (rh-ILT3-Fc) was analyzed in an ELISA. c Bw
cells transduced to express PIR-B, the murine ortholog of ILT4, were probed with a PIR-B
specific monoclonal antibody or with human CSPs and human MHC-class I tetramers.
Figure 3. Classical receptor-ligand interaction between C4d and ILT4. a Bw-ILT4 cells or
control Bw cells (Bw-mock) were incubated with different concentrations of C4Ad and cell
bound C4Ad was measured by flow cytometry using C4d-mMAb for detection. Data obtained
for C4Ad are representative for those using C4Bd, data not shown. Mean and standard deviation
of triplicate measurements are shown. b Dissociation constant (Kd) of the C4d-ILT4 interaction
assessed via Langmuir binding isotherm equation for single class 1:1 binding equilibrium based
on data shown in Fig. 3a. Data sets of triplicate measurements exhibited strong correlation (R __
0.99). c Binding of biotinylated C4Ad or C4Bd (20ug/ml) to Bw control cells or to Bw-ILT4 in
absence or presence of unlabelled C4Ad. d Binding of biotinylated C4Ad or C4Bd (20ug/ml) to
Bw control cells or to Bw-ILT4 in presence or absence of ILT4-specific antibodies.
Figure 4. Attenuation of intracellular Ca -flux and reduction of pro-inflammatory
cytokine secretion by linked, functionally multimerised, complement split products. a Ca2+_
flux elicited in monocytes via Fc]K -crosslink with or without simultaneous triggering of ILT4
through crosslink of receptor-bound CSPs or ILT4-mMAb (each at 10 [g/ml) as assessed via
flow cytometry. Ca-2+flux induced by triggering of Fc1K -crosslink alone (red lines, positive
control) as compared to Ca2+-flux modified by co-crosslink of ILT4 through the respective
ILT4-ligands (blue lines). Data shown are representative for at least three independent
experiments. b Cytokine production of monocytes stimulated by Fc1K -crosslink through solid
phase bound human IgG with or without simultaneous triggering of ILT4 via distinct amounts of
C4d isolated from serum of a healthy human adult.
c Cytokine production of monocytes stimulated by solid phase bound human IgG in absence or
presence of distinct amounts of immobilized ILT4 mMAb. b and c: mean percentage of cytokine
production of 5 independent experiments is shown, *p<0.05, **p<0.01, ***p<0.005; error bars
indicate the SEM.

                                                68
Figure 5. Flow cytometric analysis of the interaction of C4d, C3d, C4b, C3b and iC3b and
human MHC class I tetramers with Bw cells transduced to express a ILT1 transcript variants 1
and 2 (ILTIvI and ILT1v2), ILT3 and ILT7, b previously established complement receptors
CD21, CD46 and CRIg, and c PIR-A transcript variant 1 (PIR-Avl), murine ortholog of ILT1.
a-c left panels: Expression of transduced receptors was assessed using specific antibodies (grey
histograms); open histograms represent reactivity of these antibodies with control Bw cells. d
Plate-bound CSP were probed with a recombinant protein representing the human CD35
extracellular domain (rh-sCD35) via ELISA. BSA was used as a plate-bound ligand control;
white control bars represent no rh-sCD35 added to the assay.
The Example illustrates the invention.
Example 1: C4d in the treatment of disorders associated with immune-mediated
inflammation.
Methods
Biotinylation of human complement split products. Recombinant human C4d of both
isoforms (rh-C4Ad and rh-C4Bd), rh-C3d, ih-C4b, ih-C3b and ih-iC3b were tagged via
biotinylation of amino groups using Biotin-X-NHS (Calbiochem, San Diego, CA) according the
manufacturers protocol. When indicated, rh-C4Ad or rh-C4Bd were biotin-tagged using
Iodoacetyl-LC-biotin (Pierce, Rockford, IL) specifically targeting the thioester cystein (C1010,
prepro numbering), thereby resulting in a rh-C4d:biotin ratio of 1:1, according to the following
procedure. After dialyzing rh-C4Ad or rh-C4Bd against NaCl/Tris-HCl (0.2M, pH 8.0), DTT
(Sigma-Aldrich, Deisenhofen, Germany) was added to a final concentration of 0.1 mM. The
mixture was incubated for 30 minutes at 37'C to reduce the oxidized SH-group of monomeric
rh-C4d molecules, to separate disulfide-linked rh-C4d-dimers and to inhibit dimerisation as
described elsewhere   48. Subsequently, Iodoacetyl-LC-biotin was added to a final concentration
of 0.4 mM and then the solution was incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes under gentle
magnetic stirring. Then, the proteins were dialyzed against PBS+0,05% NaN3 at 4'C and stored
at -80'C.

                                                69
Purification and thioester-specific biotinylation of ih-C4d. The generation of C4d from
human plasma specifically biotinylated at the site of its internal thioester, termed isolated human
C4d (ih-C4d), was performed as follows with all steps being carried out on ice or in the cold lab
unless stated otherwise. Freshly donated, citrated human plasma was brought to 0.25 mg/ml
PMFS (Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany). The ionic strength was adjusted to the level of the
incubation buffer (20mM sodium phosphate buffer containing 0,02% sodium azide, and 160
mM sodium chloride, pH 7.0). After incubation on a Q-Sepharose column (GE Healthcare,
Uppsala, Sweden) for 90 minutes and washing, C4 was eluted by a sodium chloride gradient
based on the incubation buffer with 300 mM as the final concentration. C4 containing fractions
were pooled and concentrated using "Centricon" centrifugal filters with 1OOkDa cut-off
Millipore (Bedford, MA). Then C4 was biotinylated via a thioester-specific nucleophilic attack
through incubation with 3.7 mM Biotin-PEO2-Amine reagent (Pierce, Rockford, IL) at 370 C for
4 h. Then, C4d was generated by adding 33 pg of Factor I and 20 pg of C4-binding protein to 1
ml of Biotin-labeled C4 (2 mg/ml). Following a 2h incubation step at 370 C, biotinylated C4d
was isolated by sodium chloride gradient-elution using Q-Sepharose. C4d containing fractions
were concentrated using centrifugal filters (Millipore). Purity and biotinylation-state of the ih
C4d proteins were assessed by SDS-PAGE.
Identification of retroviral inserts in C4d reactive cells. Genomic DNA was prepared from
C4d reactive single cell clones using Gentra Puregene Cell Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany)
according to the manufacturer' s instructions folloved by the PCR amplification of the integrated
retroviral cDNA inserts as described16 . The resulting PCR products were gel-purified, cloned
into the retroviral expression plasmid pCJK2 and expressed in Bw cells applying a published
protocol 50 . Sequence analyses of plasmid DNA from selected clones were performed via
commercial DNA sequencing (MWG Biotech AG, Ebersberg, Germany).
CSP-ELISA. Ninety-six-well ELISA plates (Corning Inc., Coming, NY) were coated over
night at 4'C applying unlabelled CSPs at a concentration of 465nM. The following day, the
plates were washed six times using PBS supplemented with 0,05% Tween20 (Biorad, Hercules,
CA). Then, wells were blocked for two hours at 20'C applying PBS+2% HSA. Subsequently,
the blocking buffer was removed and rh-ILT4-Fc or rh-ILT3-Fc fusion proteins (each at 3 g/ml)
or sCD35 (5 g/ml) diluted in blocking buffer were added. All subsequent incubation steps were
carried out at 20'C using blocking buffer as dilution medium. After two hours of incubation, the
wells were washed as described above and AP-labelled anti- human IgG-Fcy-specific antibodies
or anti-CD35 mMAb were added to the fusion proteins or the sCD35 and incubated for one
hour. After washing, the anti-CD35 mMAb was incubated with HRP-labelled mouse-IgG-Fcy-

                                                 70
specific antibodies for one hour. The AP-signal was assessed by determining the OD at
k405nm using a microplate reader (Thermomax, Molec ular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) after the
addition of p-Nitrophenyl phosphate disodium hexahydrate (pNPP; Sigma-Aldrich) diluted in
diethanolamine at 1mg/ml. The HRP-signal was measured at k405nm after incubation wit h
ABTS solution (Roche Applied Sciences, Penzberg, Germany).
Ca2+-flux measurement. Labelling of monocytes using Indo 1-AM (Sigma-Aldrich) at 4 M was
performed in X-VIVO-10 supplemented with 100U/ml penicillin and 100 g/mL streptomycin at
370 C for 45 minutes. Subsequently, the cells were washed in ice-cold FACS buffer and all
subsequent steps were carried out at 4'C. The cells were resuspended in ice-cold FACS buffer,
aliquoted to cell culture tubes and co-incubated for 30 minutes with monomeric human IgG and
distinct CSPs or ILT4 mMAb. Then, the monocytes were washed twice, resuspended and co
incubated for 20 minutes with biotinylated goat IgG-Fab fragments specific for human IgG and
either biotinylated CSP-specific mMAbs or biotinylated goat IgG-F(ab' ) anti-mouse IgG. After
two final washing steps the cells were resuspended and Ca2+-flux was measured on a LSR II
flow cytometer from Becton-Dickinson after bringing the cells to 370 C in a water bath. After
measuring the baseline Ca-2+flux cells were incubated with soluble SA (Sigma-Aldrich)
                                                                                         2+
resulting in co-crosslink of biotinylated molecules attached to the cell surface. Ca 2-flux as
expressed by the Indo blue/Indo violet ratio was evaluated applying FlowJo software (TreeStar
Inc., Ashland, OR).
Ex-vivo model of antibody-mediated rejection. Ninety-six-well flat bottom cell culture plates
(Coming Inc., Coming, NY) were coated over night at 4'C either with or without human IgG
(Beriglobin P) at 100 g/mL in the presence or absence of 5 [g/mL SA (Sigma-Aldrich) or goat
anti-mouse F(ab' ) fragments. Coating volume was 100 L per well. The following day, wells
were washed five times using 200 L DPBS (PAA, Pasching, Austria) per well. Subsequently,
wells were blocked for two hours at 20'C using 200 L/well DPBS+2% HSA. Then, the
blocking buffer was removed and graded amounts of biotinylated ih-C4d or anti-ILT4 mMAb
diluted in blocking buffer was added. After two hours of incubation at 20'C, the wells were
washed as described above and 50,000 freshly isolated monocytes resuspended in serum-free X
VIVO-10 supplemented with 100U/ml penicillin and 100 g/mL streptomycin were applied per
well. The plates were incubated at 370 C in the presence of 5% CO 2 and 100% air humidity.
Production of TNF-wnd IL -6 was assessed in cell free supernatants collected after 14 hours of
stimulation via sandwich ELISA.
Statistics. Statistical differences for mean absolute values of produced cytokines were assessed
using the paired, two-tailed Student' st test. In order to achieve a normal distribution the log of

                                                71
absolute values was used in the t test. Differences were considered statistically significant for p
< 0.05.
Ethics. Blood-sampling from healthy individuals to generate ih-C4d was approved by the ethics
committee of the Vienna General Hospital and the Medical University of Vienna. Prior to
blood-sampling informed consent was obtained from blood donors.
Antibodies and reagents. All primary antibodies react with human molecules unless stated
differently. Mouse monoclonal antibodies (mMAb) specific for ILT1 (clone 24) and ILT7
(clone 17G10.2) were obtained from BioLegend (San Diego, CA), mMAbs specific for ILT3
(clone 293623), ILT4 (clone 287219), ILT5 (clone 222821) and goat polyclonal ILT4 specific
antibody as well as rh-ILT4-Fc fusion protein were purchased from R&D Systems
(Minneapolis, MN). Rh-ILT3-Fc fusion protein was produced using previously described
methods . ILT2 specific mMAb (clone 6-228) was generated and kindly provided by Dr. Otto
Majdic (Institute of Immunology, Medical University of Vienna, Austria). Rat monoclonal
antibodies (rMAbs) specific for murine PIR-B (clone 326414) or murine PIR-A/B (clone
404127) were from R&D Systems. mMAbs specific for CD35 (CR1; clone J3D3), CD21 (CR2;
clone B-ly4) or CD46 (MCP; clone 169-1-E4.3) were from Beckman Coulter (Fullerton, CA),
BD Pharmingen (San Diego, CA) and Ancell (Bayport, MN), respectively. Rabbit polyclonal
antibody specific for CRIg (VSIg4, Z39Ig) was obtained from Abcam (Cambridge, UK).
Biotinylated and unlabelled C4d-specific mMAb were purchased from Quidel (San Diego, CA)
while C3d specific mMAb (clone 7C10) was from Abcam. Recombinant human MHC Class I
Tetramer-SA-APC (#T01054) was obtained from Beckman Coulter. Soluble recombinant
human CD35 extracellular domain (sCD35) was a gift from Avant Immunotherapeutics
(Needham, MA). Streptavidin-R-PE (SA-PE), SA-APC, R-PE-F(ab' ) fragment goat anti
mouse-IgG-Fcy APC -F(ab' ) fragment goat anti-mouse IgG-Fcy, biotin-F(ab' ) fragment goat
anti-mouse-IgG(H+L), biotin-Fab fragment goat anti-human-IgG(H+L), AP-F(ab' ) fragment
goat anti-human IgG-Fcy HRP -F(ab' ) fragment goat anti-mouse IgG-Fcynd unlabeled F(ab'          )2
fragment goat anti-mouse IgG(H+L) were from Jackson ImmunoResearch (West Grove, PA).
Cell culture. Bw cells were grown in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum
(FBS, standard quality), 2mM L-Glutamin and100 U/mL Penicillin/ 100 pg/mL streptomycin
(all from PAA, Pasching, Austria), 0.5 pg/mL amphotericin B (Sigma-Aldrich, Deisenhofen,
Germany) and 2 pg/mL plasmocin (Invivogen, San Diego, CA). Peripheral blood mononuclear
cells (PBMC) of healthy individuals were isolated from buffy coats purchased from the Austrian
Red Cross via density centrifugation using Lymphoprep (Axis-Shield, Oslo, Norway).
Subsequent isolation of monocytes from the PBMC-pool was performed by magnetic activated

                                                72
cell sorting (MACS) using reagents from Mitenyi Biotech (Bergisch Gladbach, Germany).
Positively selected (CD14 microbeads) monocytes were differentiated into monocyte-derived
dendritic cells (moDC) through culturing in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine
serum, 2mM L-Glutamin andlOO U/mL Penicillin/ 100 pg/mL streptomycin and 10 ng/mL rh
IL-4 and 50 ng/mL rh-GM-CSF, both from PeproTech (Rocky Hill, NJ). Monocytes used for
functional assays were negatively selected using Monocyte isolation Kit II and either
resuspended in serum-free culture medium X-VIVO-10 from Lonza (Basel, Switzerland)
supplemented with 100 U/ml penicillin and 100 [g/mL streptomycin or in FACS-buffer (DPBS
with Ca & Mg (PAA, Pasching, Austria) supplemented with 0.5% human serum albumin (HSA;
CSL Behring, Vienna, Austria) and immediately used in experiments.
Fluorescence activated cell sorting and flow cytometric analyses. Flow cytometric analyses
were performed via a FACSCalibur flow cytometrer (BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ)
using 60,000 cells per sample resuspended in FACS-buffer. In experiments employing
monocytes or moDCs, human IgG (Beriglobin P; CSL Behring, Vienna, Austria) was used at
20mg/mL to block Fcyreceptors.        For fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), Bw cells
expressing a retroviral cDNA expression library generated from moDC16 were incubated with
biotinylated rh-C4Ad or rh-C4Bd (20[tg/mL each) in FACS-buffer for 30 minutes on ice
followed by two washing steps and subsequent detection of bound biotinylated C4d molecules
through incubation with SA-PE. FACS was performed using a FACSDiva (BD Biosciences).
RESULTS
To assess a potential interaction between C4d and structures on monocytes or monocyte-derived
dendritic cells (moDC), these cells were probed with recombinant human C4d of both isoforms
(rh-C4Ad and rh-C4Bd). Both molecules specifically reacted with either cell-type (Fig. 1a). To
identify cellular receptors mediating this interaction, a cDNA library derived from moDC
(described in 1) retrovirally expressed on the murine thymoma cell line Bw5147 (Bw cells) was
screened for C4d receptors. Rh-C4Ad- and rh-C4Bd-reactive cells were enriched by multiple
rounds of FACS (Fig. lb). Single cell clones established from the reactive pools strongly bound
both C4d isoforms (Fig. Ic). Re-expression of a PCR-retrieved 2 kb retroviral cDNA insert
present in both clones (Fig. Id) conferred reactivity for rh-C4Ad, rh-C4Bd as well as C4d
isolated from human plasma (ih-C4d; Fig. le). Differences in the binding signal between
recombinant C4d and ih-C4d derive from distinct biotinylation approaches (described in
Methods). DNA sequence analysis of the inserts identified immunoglobulin-like transcript 4

                                                   73
(ILT4, also termed CD85d, LILRB2, LIR2 and MIR1O) as cellular C4d-receptor. In line with
earlier reports4 ' 17, 18, it was found that ILT4 is expressed on monocytes and moDC (Fig. If).
ILT4 has been shown to elicit a negative signal via cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine-based
inhibitory motifs (ITIMs), thus, down-modulating pro-inflammatory immune responses4 ' ' 1. it
has been implicated in control of autoreactivity 20, maintenance of feto-maternal tolerance during
              5
pregnancy        and induction of transplantation tolerance 21-25
                                                              -2. Receptors of the ILT family show
considerable sequence similarity, and previously identified ILT4 ligands, like classical (HLA-A
and -B) and non-classical (HLA-G1, -E, and -F) MHC class I molecules, also interact with
ILT2 4  19, 26-30. Therefore, other ITIM containing ILTs, like ILT2, ILT3 and antigenic variants of
the highly polymorphic ILT5 (ILT5vl and ILT5v2) were expressed, and probed with C4d. Also
ILTs were expressed which confer activating signals via co-localisation with immunoreceptor
tyrosin-based activation motif (ITAM) bearing Fc-receptor common gamma chain like ILTI
                                                                  31
transcript variants 1 and 2 (ILTIvI and ILT1v2) and ILT7             . It was found that ILT5v2 also
acted as receptor for C4d, whereas no binding was observed with ILT5vl or any other ILT
molecule tested (Fig. 2a and Fig. 5a). Importantly, it was found that in addition to C4d also rh
C3d, ih-C4b, ih-C3b and ih-iC3b acted as ligands for ILT4 and ILT5v2. By contrast, binding of
these CSPs to other ILT molecules was not observed (Fig. 2a and Fig. 5a). A specific interaction
between ILT4 and CSPs was confirmed through an independent ELISA approach employing
solid phase-bound CSPs and soluble ILT4 represented by a rh-ILT4-Fc fusion protein (Fig. 2b).
Cells engineered to express human complement receptors CD21 (CR2), CD46 (MCP) and CRIg
(Z39Ig, VSIG4) interacted with their established ligands but failed to bind C4d (Fig. 5b).
Moreover, CD35 (CR1) interacted with its known ligands C4b, C3b and iC3b, while failing to
bind C4d or C3d (Fig. 5d). MHC class I tetramers strongly bound to ILT4 and ILT2, and to a
weaker extent also to ILT5v2, while there was no interaction with other ILTs (Fig. 2a and Fig.
5a). These results demonstrate that although ILT4 and ILT5v2 share specificity for classical
CSPs with established complement receptors, C4d-b(C4Bd) binding is restricted to ILT4 and
ILT5v2.
Paired immunoglobulin receptor B (PIR-B) and PIR-A are the murine orthologs of ILT4 and
ILT1,    respectively. PIR-B        deficiency in mice was shown to lead to autoimmune
                       32                                            33
glomerulonephritis         and exacerbated graft versus host disease . The herein provided binding
studies revealed that PIR-B, like ILT4 served as receptor for human CSPs C4d, C3b and iC3b,
whereas respective CSPs did not interact with PIR-A (Fig. 2c and Fig. 5c).

                                                 74
Binding affinity between C4d and ILT4 was assessed applying rh-C4d over a wide dilution
range to ILT4 expressing cells using C4d-specific antibody for detection. This interaction
proved to be saturable (Fig. 3a), and the dissociation (Kd) constant of the C4d-ILT4 interaction
was determined to be 0.63 [M (Fig. 3b), representing a minimum estimate because of the non
equilibrium nature of the assay.
The interaction of ILT4 with rh-C4d biotinylated via the thioester cystein was inhibited by
unlabelled C4d of either isoform in a dose dependent fashion (Fig. 3c) as well as by ILT4
antibodies (Fig. 3d). These data indicate a classical receptor-ligand interaction between C4d and
ILT4.
Previous studies have demonstrated that ILT4 triggering inhibit Fcl. -mediated intracellular
Ca 2+-flux 4' 19. Herein, the capability of CSPs to modulate Fc]K -mediated Ca-2+flux in Indo-1
AM labelled monocytes was assessed, thereby mimicking the interaction of complement-loaded
ICs with immune cells. Simultaneous co-crosslink of Fc1K and CSPs resulted in a redu ction of
Ca 2+-flux as compared to Fcl. crosslink alone (Fig. 4a). ILT4-specific antibodies inhibited
   2+
Ca -flux to a similar extent. This indicates that triggering of ILT4 by CSPs is responsible for
the reduction of Ca2+flux observed in the experiments summarized in Figure 4a. To explore a
potential functional effect of C4d on monocytes in AMR, an ex-vivo AMR-model was
developed using human IgG and graded amounts of biotinylated ih-C4d co-immobilized on cell
culture plates. Production of proinflammatory cytokines by monocytes incubated in this
experimental setting was assessed. In the presence of immobilized ih-C4d production of TNF-a
and IL-6 upon Fc1K crosslink was significantly reduced as compared to Fc1K crosslink alone
(Fig. 4b). Similar results were obtained when C4d was replaced by ILT4-specific antibodies,
indicating that the observed reduction of cytokine secretion was mediated through C4d-ILT4
interaction (Fig. 4c).
To date, the mechanisms involved in maintaining an anti-inflammatory state and self-tolerance
during the homeostatic elimination of ICs and apoptotic material have been poorly understood.
However, complement is known to play a central role, since loss of self-tolerance and
autoimmune syndromes are associated with complement deficiency states of the early
components of the classical pathway. Complete deficiencies of C4 and Clq result in the most
severe forms of SLE-like disease, while patients with defects in C2 or C3 typically present with
milder symptoms 4 '       . Copy number variations or polymorphisms of the C4 gene are also

                                                  75
associated with SLE-like disease, with low copy numbers being a risk factor while high copy
numbers       confer protection 36 . In addition,   the spontaneous development       of SLE-like
autoimmunity in C4 deficient mice can occur independent of CD35/CD21 37 . Thus, the herein
                                                                                               34
provided data indicate that additionally to defective clearance of ICs and apoptotic material '38
42 a compromised maintenance of non-reactivity towards the "self'/"non dangerous" through
failure of adequate ILT4-triggering on phagocytes might significantly contribute to the
development of autoimmune syndromes independent of classical complement receptors. The
data also offer an explanation for the observation of graft accommodation in the presence of C4d
deposition in ABO-incompatible renal transplantation4 3 . These results might also add a facet to
the comprehension of complement evasion strategies of pathogens via acquisition of
complement regulator molecules such as C4b-binding protein (C4BP). C4BP binds C4b and
C3b, thereby blocking the formation of or disrupting the C3 convertase of the classical or the
lectin pathway of complement activation. In addition, C4BP has cofactor activity for factor I,
resulting in cleavage of C4b or C3b into C4d or C3b, iC3b and C3d, respectively. It may be that
in addition to defective formation of the terminal lytic complement complex on certain pathogen
surfaces, the generation of these CSPs might induce pathogen-specific non-responsiveness of
the host 4 4 . The interaction of ILT5v2 with CSPs and MHC class I molecules is the first
description of any ligands for ILT5 molecules. It may be that this recently described 4 5 variant of
ITIM-containing ILT5 might exert regulatory effects similar to those of ILT4, probably
representing a form of regulatory redundancy.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or to
any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission
or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known
matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this
specification relates.
The present invention refers to the following nucleotide and amino acid sequences:

                                                76
The sequences provided herein are available in the NCBI database and can be retrieved from
www at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=gene; Theses sequences also relate to annotated and
modified sequences. The present invention also provides techniques and methods wherein
homologous sequences, and variants of the concise sequences provided herein are used.
Preferably, such "variants" are genetic variants.
SEQ ID No. 1:
Nucleotide sequence encoding homo sapiens complement split product C4d (isoform C4d
A(C4Ad)). C4Ad: 1140 bases; Nucleotides 2920-4059 of C4A (NM_007293.2 GI:67190747)
ACCTTGGAAATACCTGGCAACTCTGATCCCAATATGATCCCTGATGGGGA
CTTTAACAGCTACGTCAGGGTTACAGCCTCAGATCCATTGGACACTTTAG
GCTCTGAGGGGGCCTTGTCACCAGGAGGCGTGGCCTCCCTCTTGAGGCTT
CCTCGAGGCTGTGGGGAGCAAACCATGATCTACTTGGCTCCGACACTGGC
TGCTTCCCGCTACCTGGACAAGACAGAGCAGTGGAGCACACTGCCTCCCG
AGACCAAGGACCACGCCGTGGATCTGATCCAGAAAGGCTACATGCGGATC
CAGCAGTTTCGGAAGGCGGATGGTTCCTATGCGGCTTGGTTGTCACGGGA
CAGCAGCACCTGGCTCACAGCCTTTGTGTTGAAGGTCCTGAGTTTGGCCC
AGGAGCAGGTAGGAGGCTCGCCTGAGAAACTGCAGGAGACATCTAACTGG
CTTCTGTCCCAGCAGCAGGCTGACGGCTCGTTCCAGGACCCCTGTCCAGT
GTTAGACAGGAGCATGCAGGGGGGTTTGGTGGGCAATGATGAGACTGTGG
CACTCACAGCCTTTGTGACCATCGCCCTTCATCATGGGCTGGCCGTCTTC
CAGGATGAGGGTGCAGAGCCATTGAAGCAGAGAGTGGAAGCCTCCATCTC
AAAGGCAAACTCATTTTTGGGGGAGAAAGCAAGTGCTGGGCTCCTGGGTG
CCCACGCAGCTGCCATCACGGCCTATGCCCTGACACTGACCAAGGCGCCT
GTGGACCTGCTCGGTGTTGCCCACAACAACCTCATGGCAATGGCCCAGGA
GACTGGAGATAACCTGTACTGGGGCTCAGTCACTGGTTCTCAGAGCAATG
CCGTGTCGCCCACCCCGGCTCCTCGCAACCCATCCGACCCCATGCCCCAG
GCCCCAGCCCTGTGGATTGAAACCACAGCCTACGCCCTGCTGCACCTCCT
GCTTCACGAGGGCAAAGCAGAGATGGCAGACCAGGCTTCGGCCTGGCTCA
CCCGTCAGGGCAGCTTCCAAGGGGGATTCCGCAGTACCCAAGACACGGTG
ATTGCCCTGGATGCCCTGTCTGCCTACTGGATTGCCTCCCACACCACTGA
GGAGAGGGGTCTCAATGTGACTCTCAGCTCCACAGGCCGG
SEQ ID No. 2:
Amino acid sequence of homo sapiens complement split product C4d (isoform C4d-A(C4Ad)).
C4Ad amino acid sequence, 380 aa; translation of nucleotides          2920-4059 of C4A
(NM_007293.2 GI:67190747) Amino acids 957-1336 of C4A
TLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVRVTASDPLDTLGSEGALSPGGVASLLRL
PRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLDKTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQKGYMRI
QQFRKADGSYAAWLSRDSSTWLTAFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNW

                                            77
LLSQQQADGSFQDPCPVLDRSMQGGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVF
QDEGAEPLKQRVEASISKANSFLGEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAP
VDLLGVAHNNLMAMAQETGDNLYWGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQ
APALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKAEMADQASAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTV
IALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNVTLSSTGR
SEQ ID No. 3:
Nucleotide sequence encoding homo sapiens complement split product C4d (isoform C4d
B(C4Bd)). C4Bd: 1140 bases, Nucleotides 2920-4059 of C4B (NM_001002029.3)
ACCTTGGAAATACCTGGCAACTCTGATCCCAATATGATCCCTGATGGGGA
CTTTAACAGCTACGTCAGGGTTACAGCCTCAGATCCATTGGACACTTTAG
GCTCTGAGGGGGCCTTGTCACCAGGAGGCGTGGCCTCCCTCTTGAGGCTT
CCTCGAGGCTGTGGGGAGCAAACCATGATCTACTTGGCTCCGACACTGGC
TGCTTCCCGCTACCTGGACAAGACAGAGCAGTGGAGCACACTGCCTCCCG
AGACCAAGGACCACGCCGTGGATCTGATCCAGAAAGGCTACATGCGGATC
CAGCAGTTTCGGAAGGCGGATGGTTCCTATGCGGCTTGGTTGTCACGGGG
CAGCAGCACCTGGCTCACAGCCTTTGTGTTGAAGGTCCTGAGTTTGGCCC
AGGAGCAGGTAGGAGGCTCGCCTGAGAAACTGCAGGAGACATCTAACTGG
CTTCTGTCCCAGCAGCAGGCTGACGGCTCGTTCCAGGACCTCTCTCCAGT
GATACATAGGAGCATGCAGGGGGGTTTGGTGGGCAATGATGAGACTGTGG
CACTCACAGCCTTTGTGACCATCGCCCTTCATCATGGGCTGGCCGTCTTC
CAGGATGAGGGTGCAGAGCCATTGAAGCAGAGAGTGGAAGCCTCCATCTC
AAAGGCAAGCTCATTTTTGGGGGAGAAAGCAAGTGCTGGGCTCCTGGGTG
CCCACGCAGCTGCCATCACGGCCTATGCCCTGACACTGACCAAGGCCCCT
GCGGACCTGCGGGGTGTTGCCCACAACAACCTCATGGCAATGGCCCAGGA
GACTGGAGATAACCTGTACTGGGGCTCAGTCACTGGTTCTCAGAGCAATG
CCGTGTCGCCCACCCCGGCTCCTCGCAACCCATCCGACCCCATGCCCCAG
GCCCCAGCCCTGTGGATTGAAACCACAGCCTACGCCCTGCTGCACCTCCT
GCTTCACGAGGGCAAAGCAGAGATGGCAGACCAGGCTGCGGCCTGGCTCA
CCCGTCAGGGCAGCTTCCAAGGGGGATTCCGCAGTACCCAAGACACGGTG
ATTGCCCTGGATGCCCTGTCTGCCTACTGGATTGCCTCCCACACCACTGA
GGAGAGGGGTCTCAATGTGACTCTCAGCTCCACAGGCCGG
SEQ ID No. 4:
Amino acid sequence of homo sapiens complement split product C4d (isoform C4d-B(C4Bd)).
C4Bd aminoacid sequence, 380 aa; translation of Nucleotides 2920-4059 of NM_001002029.3
GI:178557738 Amino acids 957-1336 of C4B
TLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVRVTASDPLDTLGSEGALSPGGVASLLRL
PRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLDKTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQKGYMRI
QQFRKADGSYAAWLSRGSSTWLTAFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNW

                                            78
LLSQQQADGSFQDLSPVIHRSMQGGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVF
QDEGAEPLKQRVEASISKASSFLGEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAP
ADLRGVAT{NNLMAMAQETGDNLYWGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQ
APALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKAEMADQAAAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTV
IALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNVTLSSTGR
SEQ ID No. 5:
Nucleotide sequence encoding horno sapiens complement split product C4A, alpha-chain
(isoform C4A-alpha chain). C4A alpha chain nucleotide sequence encoding the C4A alpha chain
(nucleotides 2089-4380) of C4A (NM_007293.2 GI:67190747)
AACGTGAACTTCCAAAAGGCGATTAATGAGAAATTGGGTCAGTATGCTTC
CCCGACAGCCAAGCGCTGCTGCCAGGATGGGGTGACACGTCTGCCCATGA
TGCGTTCCTGCGAGCAGCGGGCAGCCCGCGTGCAGCAGCCGGACTGCCGG
GAGCCCTTCCTGTCCTGCTGCCAATTTGCTGAGAGTCTGCGCAAGAAGAG
CAGGGACAAGGGCCAGGCGGGCCTCCAACGAGCCCTGGAGATCCTGCAGG
AGGAGGACCTGATTGATGAGGATGACATTCCCGTGCGCAGCTTCTTCCCA
GAGAACTGGCTCTGGAGAGTGGAAACAGTGGACCGCTTTCAAATATTGAC
ACTGTGGCTCCCCGACTCTCTGACCACGTGGGAGATCCATGGCCTGAGCC
TGTCCAAAACCAAAGGCCTATGTGTGGCCACCCCAGTCCAGCTCCGGGTG
TTCCGCGAGTTCCACCTGCACCTCCGCCTGCCCATGTCTGTCCGCCGCTT
TGAGCAGCTGGAGCTGCGGCCTGTCCTCTATAACTACCTGGATAAAAACC
TGACTGTGAGCGTCCACGTGTCCCCAGTGGAGGGGCTGTGCCTGGCTGGG
GGCGGAGGGCTGGCCCAGCAGGTGCTGGTGCCTGCGGGCTCTGCCCGGCC
TGTTGCCTTCTCTGTGGTGCCCACGGCAGCCGCCGCTGTGTCTCTGAAGG
TGGTGGCTCGAGGGTCCTTCGAATTCCCTGTGGGAGATGCGGTGTCCAAG
GTTCTGCAGATTGAGAAGGAAGGGGCCATCCATAGAGAGGAGCTGGTCTA
TGAACTCAACCCCTTGGACCACCGAGGCCGGACCTTGGAAATACCTGGCA
ACTCTGATCCCAATATGATCCCTGATGGGGACTTTAACAGCTACGTCAGG
GTTACAGCCTCAGATCCATTGGACACTTTAGGCTCTGAGGGGGCCTTGTC
ACCAGGAGGCGTGGCCTCCCTCTTGAGGCTTCCTCGAGGCTGTGGGGAGC
AAACCATGATCTACTTGGCTCCGACACTGGCTGCTTCCCGCTACCTGGAC
AAGACAGAGCAGTGGAGCACACTGCCTCCCGAGACCAAGGACCACGCCGT
GGATCTGATCCAGAAAGGCTACATGCGGATCCAGCAGTTTCGGAAGGCGG
ATGGTTCCTATGCGGCTTGGTTGTCACGGGACAGCAGCACCTGGCTCACA
GCCTTTGTGTTGAAGGTCCTGAGTTTGGCCCAGGAGCAGGTAGGAGGCTC
GCCTGAGAAACTGCAGGAGACATCTAACTGGCTTCTGTCCCAGCAGCAGG
CTGACGGCTCGTTCCAGGACCCCTGTCCAGTGTTAGACAGGAGCATGCAG
GGGGGTTTGGTGGGCAATGATGAGACTGTGGCACTCACAGCCTTTGTGAC
CATCGCCCTTCATCATGGGCTGGCCGTCTTCCAGGATGAGGGTGCAGAGC
CATTGAAGCAGAGAGTGGAAGCCTCCATCTCAAAGGCAAACTCATTTTTG
GGGGAGAAAGCAAGTGCTGGGCTCCTGGGTGCCCACGCAGCTGCCATCAC
GGCCTATGCCCTGACACTGACCAAGGCGCCTGTGGACCTGCTCGGTGTTG
CCCACAACAACCTCATGGCAATGGCCCAGGAGACTGGAGATAACCTGTAC
TGGGGCTCAGTCACTGGTTCTCAGAGCAATGCCGTGTCGCCCACCCCGGC
TCCTCGCAACCCATCCGACCCCATGCCCCAGGCCCCAGCCCTGTGGATTG
AAACCACAGCCTACGCCCTGCTGCACCTCCTGCTTCACGAGGGCAAAGCA

                                           79
GAGATGGCAGACCAGGCTTCGGCCTGGCTCACCCGTCAGGGCAGCTTCCA
AGGGGGATTCCGCAGTACCCAAGACACGGTGATTGCCCTGGATGCCCTGT
CTGCCTACTGGATTGCCTCCCACACCACTGAGGAGAGGGGTCTCAATGTG
ACTCTCAGCTCCACAGGCCGGAATGGGTTCAAGTCCCACGCGCTGCAGCT
GAACAACCGCCAGATTCGCGGCCTGGAGGAGGAGCTGCAGTTTTCCTTGG
GCAGCAAGATCAATGTGAAGGTGGGAGGAAACAGCAAAGGAACCCTGAAG
GTCCTTCGTACCTACAATGTCCTGGACATGAAGAACACGACCTGCCAGGA
CCTACAGATAGAAGTGACAGTCAAAGGCCACGTCGAGTACACGATGGAAG
CAAACGAGGACTATGAGGACTATGAGTACGATGAGCTTCCAGCCAAGGAT
GACCCAGATGCCCCTCTGCAGCCCGTGACACCCCTGCAGCTG
SEQ ID No. 6:
Amino acid sequence of Nucleotide sequence encoding homo sapiens complement split product
C4A, alpha-chain (isoform C4A-alpha chain). C4A alpha chain amino acide sequence
matpeptide/ amino acid 680..1443 of NP_009224 (C4A)
NVNFQKAINEKLGQYASPTAKRCCQDGVTRLPMMRSCEQRAARVQQPDCR
EPFLSCCQFAESLRKKSRDKGQAGLQRALEILQEEDLIDEDDIPVRSFFP
ENWLWRVETVDRFQILTLWLPDSLTTWEIHGLSLSKTKGLCVATPVQLRV
FREFHLHLRLPMSVRRFEQLELRPVLYNYLDKNLTVSVHVSPVEGLCLAG
GGGLAQQVLVPAGSARPVAFSVVPTAAAAVSLKVVARGSFEFPVGDAVSK
VLQIEKEGAIHREELVYELNPLDHRGRTLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVR
VTASDPLDTLGSEGALSPGGVASLLRLPRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLD
KTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQKGYMRIQQFRKADGSYAAWLSRDSSTWLT
AFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNWLLSQQQADGSFQDPCPVLDRSMQ
GGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVFQDEGAEPLKQRVEASISKANSFL
GEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAPVDLLGVAHNNLMAMAQETGDNLY
WGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQAPALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKA
EMADQASAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTVIALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNV
TLSSTGRNGFKSHALQLNNRQIRGLEEELQFSLGSKINVKVGGNSKGTLK
VLRTYNVLDMKNTTCQDLQIEVTVKGHVEYTMEANEDYEDYEYDELPAKD
DPDAPLQPVTPLQL
SEQ ID No. 7:
Nucleotide sequence encoding homo sapiens complement split product C4B, alpha-chain
(isoform C4B-alpha chain). C4B alpha chain Nucleotide sequence encoding the C4B alpha
chain (nucleotides 2089-4380) of C4B NM_001002029.3
AACGTGAACTTCCAAAAGGCGATTAATGAGAAATTGGGTCAGTATGCTTC
CCCGACAGCCAAGCGCTGCTGCCAGGATGGGGTGACACGTCTGCCCATGA
TGCGTTCCTGCGAGCAGCGGGCAGCCCGCGTGCAGCAGCCGGACTGCCGG

                            80
GAGCCCTTCCTGTCCTGCTGCCAATTTGCTGAGAGTCTGCGCAAGAAGAG
CAGGGACAAGGGCCAGGCGGGCCTCCAACGAGCCCTGGAGATCCTGCAGG
AGGAGGACCTGATTGATGAGGATGACATTCCCGTGCGCAGCTTCTTCCCA
GAGAACTGGCTCTGGAGAGTGGAAACAGTGGACCGCTTTCAAATATTGAC
ACTGTGGCTCCCCGACTCTCTGACCACGTGGGAGATCCATGGCCTGAGCC
TGTCCAAAACCAAAGGCCTATGTGTGGCCACCCCAGTCCAGCTCCGGGTG
TTCCGCGAGTTCCACCTGCACCTCCGCCTGCCCATGTCTGTCCGCCGCTT
TGAGCAGCTGGAGCTGCGGCCTGTCCTCTATAACTACCTGGATAAAAACC
TGACTGTGAGCGTCCACGTGTCCCCAGTGGAGGGGCTGTGCCTGGCTGGG
GGCGGAGGGCTGGCCCAGCAGGTGCTGGTGCCTGCGGGCTCTGCCCGGCC
TGTTGCCTTCTCTGTGGTGCCCACGGCAGCCACCGCTGTGTCTCTGAAGG
TGGTGGCTCGAGGGTCCTTCGAATTCCCTGTGGGAGATGCGGTGTCCAAG
GTTCTGCAGATTGAGAAGGAAGGGGCCATCCATAGAGAGGAGCTGGTCTA
TGAACTCAACCCCTTGGACCACCGAGGCCGGACCTTGGAAATACCTGGCA
ACTCTGATCCCAATATGATCCCTGATGGGGACTTTAACAGCTACGTCAGG
GTTACAGCCTCAGATCCATTGGACACTTTAGGCTCTGAGGGGGCCTTGTC
ACCAGGAGGCGTGGCCTCCCTCTTGAGGCTTCCTCGAGGCTGTGGGGAGC
AAACCATGATCTACTTGGCTCCGACACTGGCTGCTTCCCGCTACCTGGAC
AAGACAGAGCAGTGGAGCACACTGCCTCCCGAGACCAAGGACCACGCCGT
GGATCTGATCCAGAAAGGCTACATGCGGATCCAGCAGTTTCGGAAGGCGG
ATGGTTCCTATGCGGCTTGGTTGTCACGGGGCAGCAGCACCTGGCTCACA
GCCTTTGTGTTGAAGGTCCTGAGTTTGGCCCAGGAGCAGGTAGGAGGCTC
GCCTGAGAAACTGCAGGAGACATCTAACTGGCTTCTGTCCCAGCAGCAGG
CTGACGGCTCGTTCCAGGACCTCTCTCCAGTGATACATAGGAGCATGCAG
GGGGGTTTGGTGGGCAATGATGAGACTGTGGCACTCACAGCCTTTGTGAC
CATCGCCCTTCATCATGGGCTGGCCGTCTTCCAGGATGAGGGTGCAGAGC
CATTGAAGCAGAGAGTGGAAGCCTCCATCTCAAAGGCAAGCTCATTTTTG
GGGGAGAAAGCAAGTGCTGGGCTCCTGGGTGCCCACGCAGCTGCCATCAC
GGCCTATGCCCTGACACTGACCAAGGCCCCTGCGGACCTGCGGGGTGTTG
CCCACAACAACCTCATGGCAATGGCCCAGGAGACTGGAGATAACCTGTAC
TGGGGCTCAGTCACTGGTTCTCAGAGCAATGCCGTGTCGCCCACCCCGGC
TCCTCGCAACCCATCCGACCCCATGCCCCAGGCCCCAGCCCTGTGGATTG
AAACCACAGCCTACGCCCTGCTGCACCTCCTGCTTCACGAGGGCAAAGCA
GAGATGGCAGACCAGGCTGCGGCCTGGCTCACCCGTCAGGGCAGCTTCCA
AGGGGGATTCCGCAGTACCCAAGACACGGTGATTGCCCTGGATGCCCTGT
CTGCCTACTGGATTGCCTCCCACACCACTGAGGAGAGGGGTCTCAATGTG
ACTCTCAGCTCCACAGGCCGGAATGGGTTCAAGTCCCACGCGCTGCAGCT
GAACAACCGCCAGATTCGCGGCCTGGAGGAGGAGCTGCAGTTTTCCTTGG
GCAGCAAGATCAATGTGAAGGTGGGAGGAAACAGCAAAGGAACCCTGAAG
GTCCTTCGTACCTACAATGTCCTGGACATGAAGAACACGACCTGCCAGGA
CCTACAGATAGAAGTGACAGTCAAAGGCCACGTCGAGTACACGATGGAAG
CAAACGAGGACTATGAGGACTATGAGTACGATGAGCTTCCAGCCAAGGAT
GACCCAGATGCCCCTCTGCAGCCCGTGACACCCCTGCAGCTG
SEQ ID No. 8:

                                             81
Amino acid sequence of homo sapiens complement split product C4B, alpha-chain (isoform
C4B-alpha chain). C4B alpha chain amino acide sequence matpeptide/ amino acid 680..1443
of NP_001002029.3 (C4B)
NVNFQKAINEKLGQYASPTAKRCCQDGVTRLPMMRSCEQRAARVQQPDCR
EPFLSCCQFAESLRKKSRDKGQAGLQRALEILQEEDLIDEDDIPVRSFFP
ENWLWRVETVDRFQILTLWLPDSLTTWEIHGLSLSKTKGLCVATPVQLRV
FREFHLHLRLPMSVRRFEQLELRPVLYNYLDKNLTVSVHVSPVEGLCLAG
GGGLAQQVLVPAGSARPVAFSVVPTAATAVSLKVVARGSFEFPVGDAVSK
VLQIEKEGAIHREELVYELNPLDHRGRTLEIPGNSDPNMIPDGDFNSYVR
VTASDPLDTLGSEGALSPGGVASLLRLPRGCGEQTMIYLAPTLAASRYLD
KTEQWSTLPPETKDHAVDLIQKGYMRIQQFRKADGSYAAWLSRGSSTWLT
AFVLKVLSLAQEQVGGSPEKLQETSNWLLSQQQADGSFQDLSPVIHRSMQ
GGLVGNDETVALTAFVTIALHHGLAVFQDEGAEPLKQRVEASISKASSFL
GEKASAGLLGAHAAAITAYALTLTKAPADLRGVAHNNLMAMAQETGDNLY
WGSVTGSQSNAVSPTPAPRNPSDPMPQAPALWIETTAYALLHLLLHEGKA
EMADQAAAWLTRQGSFQGGFRSTQDTVIALDALSAYWIASHTTEERGLNV
TLSSTGRNGFKSHALQLNNRQIRGLEEELQFSLGSKINVKVGGNSKGTLK
VLRTYNVLDMKNTTCQDLQIEVTVKGHVEYTMEANEDYEDYEYDELPAKD
DPDAPLQPVTPLQL
SEQ ID No. 9:
Nucleotide sequence encoding homo sapiens ILT4. The coding region ranges from nucleotide
199 to nucleotide 2036. Human ILT-4 NM_005874 2913 bp mRNA; Homo sapiens leukocyte
immunoglobulin-like receptor, subfamily B (with TM and ITIM domains), member 2 (LILRB2),
transcript variant 1, mRNA. ACCESSION             NM_005874, VERSION NM_005874.2
GI:125988399
AGTGTCAAGAAAGAAGTCAACTTTTCTTCCCCTACTTCCCTGCATTTCTC
CTCTGTGCTCACTGCCACACGCAGCTCAACCTGGACGGCACAGCCAGAGG
CGAGATGCTTCTCTGCTGATCTGAGTCTGCCTGCAGCATGGACCTGGGTC
TTCCCTGAAGCATCTCCAGGGCTGGAGGGACGACTGCCATGCACCGAGGG
CTCATCCATCCGCAGAGCAGGGCAGTGGGAGGAGACGCCATGACCCCCAT
CGTCACAGTCCTGATCTGTCTCGGGCTGAGTCTGGGCCCCAGGACCCACG
TGCAGACAGGGACCATTCCCAAGCCCACCCTGTGGGCTGAGCCAGACTCT
GTGATCACCCAGGGGAGTCCCGTCACCCTCAGTTGTCAGGGGAGCCTTGA
AGCCCAGGAGTACCGTCTATATAGGGAGAAAAAATCAGCATCTTGGATTA
CACGGATACGACCAGAGCTTGTGAAGAACGGCCAGTTCCACATCCCATCC
ATCACCTGGGAACACACAGGGCGATATGGCTGTCAGTATTACAGCCGCGC
TCGGTGGTCTGAGCTCAGTGACCCCCTGGTGCTGGTGATGACAGGAGCCT
ACCCAAAACCCACCCTCTCAGCCCAGCCCAGCCCTGTGGTGACCTCAGGA
GGAAGGGTGACCCTCCAGTGTGAGTCACAGGTGGCATTTGGCGGCTTCAT
TCTGTGTAAGGAAGGAGAAGAAGAACACCCACAATGCCTGAACTCCCAGC

                                            82
CCCATGCCCGTGGGTCGTCCCGCGCCATCTTCTCCGTGGGCCCCGTGAGC
CCGAATCGCAGGTGGTCGCACAGGTGCTATGGTTATGACTTGAACTCTCC
CTATGTGTGGTCTTCACCCAGTGATCTCCTGGAGCTCCTGGTCCCAGGTG
TTTCTAAGAAGCCATCACTCTCAGTGCAGCCGGGTCCTGTCGTGGCCCCT
GGGGAAAGCCTGACCCTCCAGTGTGTCTCTGATGTCGGCTATGACAGATT
TGTTCTGTACAAGGAGGGGGAACGTGACCTTCGCCAGCTCCCTGGCCGGC
AGCCCCAGGCTGGGCTCTCCCAGGCCAACTTCACCCTGGGCCCTGTGAGC
CGCTCCTACGGGGGCCAGTACAGATGCTACGGTGCACACAACCTCTCCTC
TGAGTGCTCGGCCCCCAGCGACCCCCTGGACATCCTGATCACAGGACAGA
TCCGTGGCACACCCTTCATCTCAGTGCAGCCAGGCCCCACAGTGGCCTCA
GGAGAGAACGTGACCCTGCTGTGTCAGTCATGGCGGCAGTTCCACACTTT
CCTTCTGACCAAGGCGGGAGCAGCTGATGCCCCACTCCGTCTAAGATCAA
TACACGAATATCCTAAGTACCAGGCTGAATTCCCCATGAGTCCTGTGACC
TCAGCCCACGCGGGGACCTACAGGTGCTACGGCTCACTCAACTCCGACCC
CTACCTGCTGTCTCACCCCAGTGAGCCCCTGGAGCTCGTGGTCTCAGGAC
CCTCCATGGGTTCCAGCCCCCCACCCACCGGTCCCATCTCCACACCTGCA
GGCCCTGAGGACCAGCCCCTCACCCCCACTGGGTCGGATCCCCAAAGTGG
TCTGGGAAGGCACCTGGGGGTTGTGATCGGCATCTTGGTGGCCGTCGTCC
TACTGCTCCTCCTCCTCCTCCTCCTCTTCCTCATCCTCCGACATCGACGT
CAGGGCAAACACTGGACATCGACCCAGAGAAAGGCTGATTTCCAACATCC
TGCAGGGGCTGTGGGGCCAGAGCCCACAGACAGAGGCCTGCAGTGGAGGT
CCAGCCCAGCTGCCGACGCCCAGGAAGAAAACCTCTATGCTGCCGTGAAG
GACACACAGCCTGAAGATGGGGTGGAGATGGACACTCGGGCTGCTGCATC
TGAAGCCCCCCAGGATGTGACCTACGCCCAGCTGCACAGCTTGACCCTCA
GACGGAAGGCAACTGAGCCTCCTCCATCCCAGGAAAGGGAACCTCCAGCT
GAGCCCAGCATCTACGCCACCCTGGCCATCCACTAGCCCGGAGGGTACGC
AGACTCCACACTCAGTAGAAGGAGACTCAGGACTGCTGAAGGCACGGGAG
CTGCCCCCAGTGGACACCAATGAACCCCAGTCAGCCTGGACCCCTAACAA
AGACCATGAGGAGATGCTGGGAACTTTGGGACTCACTTGATTCTGCAGTC
GAAATAACTAATATCCCTACATTTTTTAATTAAAGCAACAGACTTCTCAA
TAATCAATGAGTTAACCGAGAAAACTAAAATCAGAAGTAAGAATGTGCTT
TAAACTGAATCACAATATAAATATTACACATCACACAATGAAATTGAAAA
AGTACAAACCACAAATGAAAAAAGTAGAAACGAAAAAAAAAAACTAGGAA
ATGAATGACGTTGGCTTTCGTATAAGGAATTTAGAAAAAGAATAACCAAT
TATTCCAAATGAAGGTGTAAGAAAGGGAATAAGAAGAAGAAGAGTTGCTC
ATGAGGAAAAACCAAAACTTGAAAATTCAACAAAGCCAATGAAGCTCATT
CTTGAAAATATTAATTACAGTCATAAATCCTAACTACATTGAGCAAGAGA
AAGAAAGAGCAGGCACGCATTTCCATATGGGAGTGAGCCAGCAGACAGCC
CAGCAGATCCTACACACATTTTCACAAACTAACCCCAGAACAGGCTGCAA
ACCTATACCAATATACTAGAAAATGCAGATTAAATGGATGAAATATTCAA
AACTGGAGTTTACATAATGAACGTAAGAGTAATCAGAGAATCTGACTCAT
TTTAAATGTGTGTGTATGTGTGTGTATATATATGTGTGTGTGTGTGTGTG
TGTGTGTGTGTGAAAAACATTGACTGTAATAAAAATGTTCCCATCGTAAA
AAAAAAAAAAAAA
SEQ ID No. 10:
Amino acid sequence of homo sapiens ILT4. Human ILT-4 amino acid sequence (NM_005874
NM_005874.2), coding region translated (from 240-2036; 598 aa)

                                                83
MTPIVTVLICLGLSLGPRTHVQTGTIPKPTLWAEPDSVITQGSPVTLSCQ
GSLEAQEYRLYREKKSASWITRIRPELVKNGQFHIPSITWEHTGRYGCQY
YSRARWSELSDPLVLVMTGAYPKPTLSAQPSPVVTSGGRVTLQCESQVAF
GGFILCKEGEEEHPQCLNSQPHARGSSRAIFSVGPVSPNRRWSHRCYGYD
LNSPYVWSSPSDLLELLVPGVSKKPSLSVQPGPVVAPGESLTLQCVSDVG
YDRFVLYKEGERDLRQLPGRQPQAGLSQANFTLGPVSRSYGGQYRCYGAH
NLSSECSAPSDPLDILITGQIRGTPFISVQPGPTVASGENVTLLCQSWRQ
FHTFLLTKAGAADAPLRLRSIHEYPKYQAEFPMSPVTSAHAGTYRCYGSL
NSDPYLLSHPSEPLELVVSGPSMGSSPPPTGPISTPAGPEDQPLTPTGSD
PQSGLGRHLGVVIGILVAVVLLLLLLLLLFLILRHRRQGKHWTSTQRKAD
FQHPAGAVGPEPTDRGLQWRSSPAADAQEENLYAAVKDTQPEDGVEMDTR
AAASEAPQDVTYAQLHSLTLRRKATEPPPSQEREPPAEPSIYATLAIH
All references cited herein are fully incorporated by reference. Having now fully described the
invention, it will be understood by a person skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced
within a wide and equivalent range of conditions, parameters and the liek, without affecting the
spirit or scope of the invention or any embodiment thereof.
                                           References.
1.      Kao AH, Navratil JS, Ruffing MJ, et al. Erythrocyte C3d and C4d for monitoring disease
activity in systemic lupus erythematosus. Arthritis and rheumatism 2010;62(3):837-44.
2.      Liu CC, Kao AH, Hawkins DM, et al. Lymphocyte-bound complement activation
products as biomarkers for diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus. Clinical and translational
science 2009;2(4):300-8.
3.      Racusen LC, Colvin RB, Solez K, et al. Antibody-mediated rejection criteria - an
addition to the Banff 97 classification of renal allograft rejection. Am J Transplant
2003;3(6):708-14.
4.       Colonna M, Samaridis J, Cella M, et al. Human myelomonocytic cells express an
inhibitory receptor for classical and nonclassical MHC class I molecules. J Immunol
1998; 160(7):3096-100.
5.      Hunt JS, Petroff MG, McIntire RH, Ober C. HLA-G and immune tolerance in
pregnancy. Faseb J 2005;19(7):681-93.

                                               84
6.      LeMaoult J, Zafaranloo K, Le Danff C, Carosella ED. HLA-G up-regulates ILT2, ILT3,
ILT4, and KIR2DL4 in antigen presenting cells, NK cells, and T cells. Faseb J 2005;19(6):662
4.
7.      Ristich V, Liang S, Zhang W, Wu J, Horuzsko A. Tolerization of dendritic cells by
HLA-G. European journal of immunology 2005;35(4):1133-42.
8.      Campbell RD, Dodds AW, Porter RR. The binding of human complement component
C4 to antibody-antigen aggregates. The Biochemical journal 1980;189(1):67-80.
9.      Dommett RM, Klein N, Turner MW. Mannose-binding lectin in innate immunity: past,
present and future. Tissue antigens 2006;68(3):193-209.
10.     Korb LC, Ahearn JM. Clq binds directly and specifically to surface blebs of apoptotic
human keratinocytes: complement deficiency and systemic lupus erythematosus revisited. J
Immunol 1997;158(10):4525-8.
11.     Law SK, Dodds AW. The internal thioester and the covalent binding properties of the
complement proteins C3 and C4. Protein Sci 1997;6(2):263-74.
12.     Nauta AJ, Trouw LA, Daha MR, et al. Direct binding of Clq to apoptotic cells and cell
blebs induces complement activation. European journal of immunology 2002;32(6):1726-36.
13.     Taylor PR, Carugati A, Fadok VA, et al. A hierarchical role for classical pathway
complement proteins in the clearance of apoptotic cells in vivo. The Journal of experimental
medicine 2000; 192(3):359-66.
14.     Bohmig GA, Exner M, Habicht A, et al. Capillary C4d deposition in kidney allografts: a
specific marker of alloantibody-dependent graft injury. J Am Soc Nephrol 2002;13(4):1091-9.
15.     Mauiyyedi S, Crespo M, Collins AB, et al. Acute humoral rejection in kidney
transplantation: II. Morphology, immunopathology, and pathologic classification. J Am Soc
Nephrol 2002;13(3):779-87.
16.     Steinberger P, Majdic 0, Derdak SV, et al. Molecular characterization of human 41g-B7
H3, a member of the B7 family with four Ig-like domains. J Immunol 2004;172(4):2352-9.
17.     Colonna M, Navarro F, Bellon T, et al. A common inhibitory receptor for major
histocompatibility complex class I molecules on human lymphoid and myelomonocytic cells.
The Journal of experimental medicine 1997; 186(11):1809-18.
18.     Cosman D, Fanger N, Borges L, et al. A novel immunoglobulin superfamily receptor for
cellular and viral MHC class I molecules. Immunity 1997;7(2):273-82.
19.     Fanger NA, Cosman D, Peterson L, Braddy SC, Maliszewski CR, Borges L. The MHC
class I binding proteins LIR-1 and LIR-2 inhibit Fc receptor-mediated signaling in monocytes.
European journal of immunology 1998;28(11):3423-34.

                                                 85
20.     Anderson KJ, Allen RL. Regulation of T-cell immunity by leucocyte immunoglobulin
like receptors: innate immune receptors for self on antigen-presenting cells. Immunology
2009; 127(1):8-17.
21.     Chang CC, Ciubotariu R, Manavalan JS, et al. Tolerization of dendritic cells by T(S)
cells: the crucial role of inhibitory receptors ILT3 and ILT4. Nature immunology
2002;3(3):237-43.
22.     Le Rond S, Azema C, Krawice-Radanne I, et al. Evidence to support the role of HLA-G5
in allograft acceptance through induction of immunosuppressive/ regulatory T cells. J Immunol
2006; 176(5):3266-76.
23.     Manavalan JS, Kim-Schulze S, Scotto L, et al. Alloantigen specific CD8+CD28
FOXP3+ T suppressor cells induce ILT3+ ILT4+ tolerogenic endothelial cells, inhibiting
alloreactivity. International immunology 2004; 16(8):1055-68.
24.     Manavalan JS, Rossi PC, Vlad G, et al. High expression of ILT3 and ILT4 is a general
feature of tolerogenic dendritic cells. Transplant immunology 2003; 11(3-4):245-58.
25.     Ristich V, Zhang W, Liang S, Horuzsko A. Mechanisms of prolongation of allograft
survival by HLA-G/ILT4-modified dendritic cells. Human immunology 2007;68(4):264-7 1.
26.     Allan    DS,   Colonna M, Lanier LL, et al. Tetrameric            complexes   of human
histocompatibility leukocyte antigen (HLA)-G bind to peripheral blood myelomonocytic cells.
The Journal of experimental medicine 1999; 189(7):1149-56.
27.     Borges L, Hsu ML, Fanger N, Kubin M, Cosman D. A family of human lymphoid and
myeloid Ig-like receptors, some of which bind to MHC class I molecules. J Immunol
1997;159(11):5192-6.
28.     Lepin EJ, Bastin JM, Allan DS, et al. Functional characterization of HLA-F and binding
of HLA-F tetramers to ILT2 and ILT4 receptors. European journal of immunology
2000;30(12):3552-61.
29.     Navarro F, Llano M, Bellon T, Colonna M, Geraghty DE, Lopez-Botet M. The
ILT2(LIR1) and CD94/NKG2A NK cell receptors respectively recognize HLA-G1 and HLA-E
molecules co-expressed on target cells. European journal of immunology 1999;29(1):277-83.
30.     Vitale M, Castriconi R, Parolini S, et al. The leukocyte Ig-like receptor (LIR)-1 for the
cytomegalovirus UL18 protein displays a broad specificity for different HLA class I alleles:
analysis of LIR-1 + NK cell clones. International immunology 1999;1 1(1):29-35.
31.     Borges L, Cosman D. LIRs/ILTs/MIRs, inhibitory and stimulatory Ig-superfamily
receptors expressed in myeloid and lymphoid cells. Cytokine & growth factor reviews
2000; 11(3):209-17.

                                                86
32.     Kubo T, Uchida Y, Watanabe Y, et al. Augmented TLR9-induced Btk activation in PIR
B-deficient B-i cells provokes excessive autoantibody production and autoimmunity. The
Journal of experimental medicine 2009;206(9):1971-82.
33.     Nakamura A, Kobayashi E, Takai T. Exacerbated graft-versus-host disease in Pirb-/
mice. Nature immunology 2004;5(6):623-9.
34.     Botto M, Kirschfink M, Macor P, Pickering MC, Wurzner R, Tedesco F. Complement in
human     diseases:    Lessons   from    complement     deficiencies.     Molecular  immunology
2009;46(14):2774-83.
35.     Pickering MC, Botto M, Taylor PR, Lachmann PJ, Walport MJ. Systemic lupus
erythematosus, complement deficiency, and apoptosis. Advances in immunology 2000;76:227
324.
36.     Yang Y, Chung EK, Wu YL, et al. Gene copy-number variation and associated
polymorphisms of complement component C4 in human systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE):
low copy number is a risk factor for and high copy number is a protective factor against SLE
susceptibility in European Americans. Am J Hum Genet 2007;80(6):1037-54.
37.     Chen Z, Koralov SB, Kelsoe G. Complement C4 inhibits systemic autoimmunity through
a mechanism independent of complement receptors CR1 and CR2. The Journal of experimental
medicine 2000;192(9):1339-52.
38.     Gaipl US, Voll RE, Sheriff A, Franz S, Kalden JR, Herrmann M. Impaired clearance of
dying cells in systemic lupus erythematosus. Autoimmunity reviews 2005;4(4):189-94.
39.     Helmy KY, Katschke KJ, Jr., Gorgani NN, et al. CRIg: a macrophage complement
receptor required for phagocytosis of circulating pathogens. Cell 2006;124(5):915-27.
40.     Khera R, Das N. Complement Receptor 1: disease associations and therapeutic
implications. Molecular immunology 2009;46(5):761-72.
41.     Mevorach D. Clearance of dying cells and systemic lupus erythematosus: the role of Cl q
and the complement system. Apoptosis 2010;15(9):1114-23.
42.     Munoz LE, Janko C, Chaurio RA, Schett G, Gaipl US, Herrmann M. IgG opsonized
nuclear remnants from dead cells cause systemic inflammation in SLE. Autoimmunity
2010;43(3):232-5.
43.     Haas M, Segev DL, Racusen LC, et al. C4d deposition without rejection correlates with
reduced    early   scarring  in ABO-incompatible      renal   allografts.  J Am     Soc Nephrol
2009;20(1):197-204.
44.     Blom AM, Hallstrom T, Riesbeck K. Complement evasion strategies of pathogens
acquisition of inhibitors and beyond. Molecular immunology 2009;46(14):2808-17.

                                                  87
45.     Pfistershammer K, Lawitschka A, Klauser C, et al. Allogeneic                  disparities in
immunoglobulin-like transcript 5 induce potent antibody responses in hematopoietic stem cell
transplant recipients. Blood 2009; 114(11):2323-32.
46.     Clemenza L, Isenman DE. The C4A and C4B isotypic forms of human complement
fragment C4b have the same intrinsic affinity for complement receptor 1 (CR1/CD35). J
Immunol 2004;172(3):1670-80.
47.     Nagar B, Jones RG, Diefenbach RJ, Isenman DE, Rini JM. X-ray crystal structure of
C3d: a C3 fragment and ligand for complement receptor 2. Science (New York, NY
1998;280(5367):1277-81.
48.     van den Elsen JM, Martin A, Wong V, Clemenza L, Rose DR, Isenman DE. X-ray
crystal structure of the C4d fragment of human complement component C4. Journal of
molecular biology 2002;322(5):1103-15.
49.     Leitner J, Kuschei W, Grabmeier-Pfistershammer K, et al. T cell stimulator cells, an
efficient and versatile cellular system to assess the role of costimulatory ligands in the activation
of human T cells. Journal of immunological methods 2010;362(1-2):131-41.
50.     Kober J, Leitner J, Klauser C, et al. The capacity of the TNF family members 4-1BBL,
OX40L, CD70, GITRL, CD30L and LIGHT to costimulate human T cells. European journal of
immunology 2008;38(10):2678-88.
51.     Leitner J, Klauser C, Pickl WF, et al. B7-H3 is a potent inhibitor of human T-cell
activation: No evidence for B7-H3 and TREML2 interaction. European journal of immunology
2009;39(7):1754-64.

                                             88
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.  Use of complement split product C4d for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition
    for use in therapy.
2.  The use of claim 1, wherein said complement split product C4d is a complement split
    product C4d polypeptide.
3.  The use of claim 1 or 2, wherein said complement split product C4d is a complement split
    product C4d polypeptide selected from the group consisting of
    (a) a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
          nucleic acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:
           1 (isoform complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-B);
    (b) a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
          NO:2 (isoform complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-B);
    (c) a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
          inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has complement split
          product C4d biological activity;
    (d) a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
          consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split
          product C4d-B);
    (e) a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
          nucleic acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary
          strand of nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said
          polypeptide has complement split product C4d biological activity;
    (f) a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to
          (e), and whereby said polypeptide has complement split product C4d biological
          activity; and
    (g) a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
          nucleic acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the
          nucleotide sequence of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
4.  The use of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said complement split product C4d is a
    complement split product C4d multimer.

                                            89
5. The use of claim 4, wherein said complement split product C4d multimer comprises two
   or more complement split product C4d polypeptides, wherein said complement split
   product C4d polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of
   (a) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
        molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
        complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform complement split
        product C4d-B);
   (b) a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
        complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split
        product C4d-B);
   (c) a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
        inserted, added or substituted;
   (d) a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having an
        amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform complement split
        product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split product C4d-B);
   (e) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
        molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
        nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and encoding complement split
        product C4d or a functional fragment or functional derivative thereof;
   (f) a polypeptide having at least 60 % homology to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to
        (e), whereby said polypeptide is complement split product C4d or a functional
        fragment or functional derivative thereof; and
   (g) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
        molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
        of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
6. Pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d.
7. Pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer.
8. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 6 or 7, wherein said complement split product
   C4d is a complement split product C4d polypeptide.
9. The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d of claim 6 or
   8, wherein said complement split product C4d is a complement split product C4d
   polypeptide selected from the group consisting of
   (a) a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
        nucleic acid molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:

                                              90
          1 (isoform complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-B);
    (b)   a polypeptide having or consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID
         NO:2 (isoform complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-B);
    (c)   a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
          inserted, added or substituted, and whereby said polypeptide has complement split
         product C4d biological activity;
    (d)   a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having or
          consisting of an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split
         product C4d-B);
    (e)   a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
          nucleic acid molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary
          strand of nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and whereby said
         polypeptide has complement split product C4d biological activity;
    (f)   a polypeptide having at least 60 % similarity to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to
          (e), and whereby said polypeptide has complement split product C4d biological
          activity; and
    (g)   a polypeptide comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence encoded by a
          nucleic acid molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the
          nucleotide sequence of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
10. The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer
    according to claim 7 or 8, wherein said complement split product C4d multimer comprises
    two or more complement split product C4d polypeptides wherein said complement split
    product C4d polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of
    (a) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
          molecule having the nucleic acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO: 1 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 3 (isoform complement split
         product C4d-B);
    (b) a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform
          complement split product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split
         product C4d-B);
    (c) a polypeptide as defined in (a) or (b) wherein one or more amino acids are deleted,
          inserted, added or substituted;
    (d) a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide having an
          amino acid sequence as depicted in SEQ ID NO:2 (isoform complement split

                                               91
           product C4d-A) or SEQ ID NO: 4 (isoform complement split product C4d-B);
    (e)    a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
           molecule hybridizing under stringent conditions to the complementary strand of
           nucleic acid molecules as defined in (a) or (d) and encoding complement split
           product C4d or a functional fragment or functional derivative thereof;
    (f)    a polypeptide having at least 60 % homology to the polypeptide of any one of (a) to
           (e), whereby said polypeptide is complement split product C4d or a functional
           fragment or functional derivative thereof; and
    (g)    a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid
           molecule being degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the nucleotide sequence
           of a nucleic acid molecule as defined in (a), (d) and (e).
11.   The use of any one of claims 1 to 5, or the pharmaceutical composition of any one of
      claims 6 to 10, wherein said pharmaceutical composition is to be administered
      intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
12.   The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer of
      any one of claims 7, 8, 10 and 11, wherein the multimer is a homo-multimer.
13.   The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer of
      any one of claims 7, 8, 10 and 12, wherein the multimer comprises from 2 to up to 20
      C4d polypeptides.
14.   The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer of
      any one of claims 7, 8, 10 and 13, wherein the polypeptides of the multimer are linked by
      an amino acid sequence.
15.   The pharmaceutical composition comprising complement split product C4d multimer of
      claim 14, wherein the linking amino acid sequence is composed of glycine or serine
      residues.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Figure 1.
                                1/12

                                  2/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 1 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Figure 2.
                                3/12

                                  4/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 2 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

                                  5/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 2 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Figure 3.
                                6/12

                                  7/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 3 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Figure 4.
                                8/12

                                  9/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 4 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Figure 5.
                                10/12

                                  11/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 5 (cont.).
<removed-apn>

                                  12/12
<removed-date>
              Figure 5 (cont.).
              d.
<removed-apn>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713>   <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+271B><U+2719><U+2724><U+2717><U+2725><U+271C><U+2719><U+271E><U+2726><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B>
              <U+2713> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2717><U+2729><U+2717><U+271B><U+271E> <U+271C><U+272A><U+272B><U+2719><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2718><U+272C><U+2722><U+271E> <U+270D><U+272D><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2717><U+272F><U+271E><U+2729><U+2717><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2605><U+272E> <U+2719><U+271B><U+272E><U+272B><U+272F><U+2729><U+2729><U+272F><U+271E><U+2605><U+2725><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2605><U+271B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271E><U+2719><U+2605><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713> <U+2731><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E>   <U+2714><U+272D> <U+2732><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2731>
              <U+2713> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2732> <U+2702> <U+2734> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272D><U+272D><U+271D><U+2714>
              <U+2713> <U+2733> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2735><U+2714><U+2734><U+2735><U+2714><U+2702>
              <U+2713> <U+2701><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+2720><U+2737><U+2732> <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715>    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722>     <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F>     <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>     <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>    <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>    <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722>    <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D>    <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D>    <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E>    <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>    <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722>    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D>    <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722>    <U+2734><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E>    <U+2704><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D>    <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>    <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F>    <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D>    <U+2714><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D>     <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2733>                       <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>     <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                           <U+2702><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                      <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                      <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                      <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2704><U+2733>                     <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2714><U+2714>                     <U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>     <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                         <U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>     <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                      <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>     <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2704><U+2714>                     <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                       <U+260E><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                  <U+2702> <U+2714>                     <U+2702> <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                               <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                    <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>     <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                      <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>     <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                  <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2731> <U+2714>                   <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                               <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                           <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                      <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                     <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                  <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                     <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715>    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722>         <U+2701><U+2714>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F>         <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>         <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>         <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>         <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722>         <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D>         <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D>         <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E>         <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>         <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722>         <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D>         <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722>         <U+2734><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E>         <U+2704><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D>         <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>         <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F>         <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D>         <U+2714><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D>          <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2733>                       <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>     <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                           <U+2702><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                      <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                      <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                      <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                      <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2704><U+2733>                     <U+260E><U+2714>                      <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2714><U+2714>                     <U+2714><U+2733>                       <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                         <U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714>                      <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>     <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                      <U+2733><U+2714>                  <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2704><U+2714>                     <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2731>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                       <U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                  <U+2702> <U+2714>                   <U+2702> <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                                <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                            <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                      <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                  <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2731> <U+2714>                   <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                                <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                      <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                  <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2733>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2733>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E>       <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F>       <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2734><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2704><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722>       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+272D>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E>        <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722>        <U+2714><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>         <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722>       <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>        <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E>       <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>        <U+2734><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2714><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F>       <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722>       <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D>                                                           <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2734><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                              <U+2733>                      <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                          <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                              <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2733>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                    <U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                        <U+2733>                    <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                  <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                               <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                           <U+2704><U+2714>                    <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                  <U+2702> <U+2714>                 <U+2702> <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                              <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
                      <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                  <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                   <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                              <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                      <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                  <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2704><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                              <U+272D><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+272D> <U+2714>                   <U+272D> <U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                          <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                      <U+272D><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                  <U+272D><U+2733><U+2714>                 <U+272D><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+272D><U+2701><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                              <U+272D><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                          <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2733> <U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                      <U+2733> <U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                  <U+2733><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2733><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2733><U+272D><U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                              <U+2733><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                          <U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                      <U+2733><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                  <U+2701> <U+2714>                 <U+2701> <U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
                            <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
                        <U+2701><U+2734><U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                    <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2701><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
              <U+2734><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2734> <U+2714>                   <U+2734> <U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                                <U+2734><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2734><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2734><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2734><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                        <U+2734><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E>       <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F>       <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722>       <U+2734><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2704><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D>       <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722>       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E>       <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2714><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>        <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2734>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>         <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722>         <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D>         <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>          <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D>         <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>         <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F>         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E>         <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>          <U+2734><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F>         <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>         <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722>         <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722>         <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D>         <U+2702><U+2714><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D>         <U+2702> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F>         <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722>         <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>         <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D>                                                             <U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2734><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>     <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                               <U+2733>                       <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>     <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                           <U+2702><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                      <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                      <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>     <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                      <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                      <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>     <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                               <U+2704><U+2733>                     <U+260E><U+2714>                      <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>     <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                            <U+2714><U+2714>                     <U+2714><U+2733>                       <U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                         <U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714>                      <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>     <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                      <U+2733><U+2714>                  <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>     <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2704>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                           <U+2704><U+2714>                    <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                       <U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                  <U+2702> <U+2714>                   <U+2702> <U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                                <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
                      <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                  <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                                <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                      <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
                  <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                                <U+272D><U+2714><U+2733>                 <U+272D> <U+2714>                   <U+272D> <U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                          <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                      <U+272D><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                  <U+272D><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+272D><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2714>                 <U+272D><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                                <U+272D><U+2704><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                          <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2733> <U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                      <U+2733> <U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                  <U+2733><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2731><U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2733><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2714>                 <U+2733><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                                <U+2733><U+2701><U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                          <U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                      <U+2733><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                  <U+2701> <U+2714>                   <U+2701> <U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2701><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                                <U+2701><U+272D><U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
                          <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
                      <U+2701><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                  <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
              <U+2734><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2734> <U+2714>                 <U+2734> <U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+260E>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E>   <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>    <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                              <U+2734><U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2734><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>    <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                          <U+2734><U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2734><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>    <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                      <U+2734><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+260E> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722>      <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E>      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F>      <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F>      <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D>      <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722>      <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E>      <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D>      <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E>      <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E>      <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F>      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D>      <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E>      <U+2734><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E>      <U+2704><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D>      <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722>      <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D>      <U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E>      <U+2714><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F>      <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D>      <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>      <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E>      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F>      <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722>      <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2714>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D>        <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D>        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722>        <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E>        <U+2734><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E>        <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722>        <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F>        <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722>        <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2714><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D>       <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D> <U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+2722> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722>       <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D> <U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E>       <U+2702><U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+271E>       <U+2702><U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D> <U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2702><U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722> <U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2701><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+2722> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+273D><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F>       <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2722><U+272F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E>       <U+2702><U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F> <U+272F><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+271E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F> <U+271E><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D>       <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F> <U+271E><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2722><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E>       <U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+271E><U+273D><U+271E><U+271E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2722><U+272F><U+271E><U+2722><U+273D><U+271E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>                                    <U+2702><U+260E> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2733><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2739><U+2605><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271C><U+272F><U+272A><U+2719><U+2717><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                              <U+2733>                      <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>
                          <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                             <U+2714><U+2714>                    <U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                          <U+2733>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>
                     <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                    <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2704><U+2714>                    <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                         <U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                    <U+2702> <U+2714>                 <U+2702> <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                            <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                        <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                    <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2731> <U+2714>                   <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                                <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                            <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                        <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                    <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+2731><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                <U+272D><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+272D> <U+2714>                   <U+272D> <U+2733>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                            <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                        <U+272D><U+2731><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                    <U+272D><U+2733><U+2714>                 <U+272D><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>
              <U+272D><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                                <U+272D><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                            <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2733> <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                        <U+2733> <U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                    <U+2733><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2733><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
              <U+2733><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                                <U+2733><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>
                            <U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                        <U+2733><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2702>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2737><U+2725><U+271E><U+2719><U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+2719><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+271C><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2605><U+272B><U+2706><U+271E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+271B><U+272F><U+271C><U+271C><U+2719><U+273D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2738><U+270C><U+2737><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+271B><U+2605><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C><U+270E><U+2719><U+271B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2725><U+273C>
                    <U+273A><U+2605><U+2725><U+273D><U+272F><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2729><U+273B><U+273C><U+2737><U+2725><U+271E><U+2719><U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+2719><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+273C>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271C><U+273D><U+273D><U+273D><U+271C><U+273D><U+273D> <U+273D><U+271C>                                                             <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2701><U+272D><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2737><U+2725><U+271E><U+2719><U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+2719><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+270D><U+272D><U+2737><U+2718><U+2735><U+270F><U+2729><U+2729><U+272C><U+271B><U+2605><U+273D><U+272B><U+2605><U+2702><U+272C><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2712> <U+272E><U+272C><U+271C><U+2719><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271E><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2733>                       <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                           <U+2702><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>     <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                      <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                      <U+2733><U+2733>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                      <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                               <U+2704><U+2733>                     <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>     <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                            <U+2714><U+2714>                     <U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                         <U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                      <U+2731><U+2733>                  <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>     <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                      <U+2733><U+2714>                  <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                            <U+2704><U+2714>                     <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                       <U+260E><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>
                  <U+2702> <U+2714>                     <U+2702> <U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>     <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                               <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                    <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                      <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                     <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>     <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                  <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                     <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>     <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>     <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                               <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>     <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                           <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>     <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                                                       <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2731>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>
                  <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2704><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>
                              <U+272D><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+272D> <U+2714>                   <U+272D> <U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                          <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                      <U+272D><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>                 <U+272D><U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+272D><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
              <U+272D><U+2701><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>
                              <U+272D><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                          <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2733> <U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
                      <U+2733> <U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2733><U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                  <U+2733><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2731><U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2733><U+272D><U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                              <U+2733><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                          <U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                      <U+2733><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2701><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                  <U+2701> <U+2714>                   <U+2701> <U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2715> <U+2701><U+272D><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2715> <U+2732> <U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2702> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2737><U+2725><U+271E><U+2719><U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+2719><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2722><U+2717>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2702><U+2731><U+2715> <U+270D><U+272D><U+2736><U+2718><U+2735><U+270F><U+2729><U+2729><U+272C><U+271B><U+2605><U+273D><U+272B><U+2605><U+2702><U+272C><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2712> <U+272E><U+272C><U+271C><U+2719><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271E><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+272D><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                               <U+2733>                     <U+2714>                     <U+2733>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                           <U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733>                    <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                      <U+2731><U+2733>                    <U+272D><U+2714>                    <U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                  <U+2733><U+2714>                    <U+2733><U+2733>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                  <U+2734><U+2733>                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                               <U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                            <U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2714><U+2733>                     <U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                         <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                    <U+2731><U+2733>                  <U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
               <U+272D><U+2733>                    <U+2733><U+2714>                  <U+2733><U+2733>                    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                                     <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+272D>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                 <U+2701><U+2733>                    <U+2734><U+2714>                    <U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
                             <U+2704><U+2714>                    <U+2704><U+2733>                    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                         <U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>
                    <U+2702> <U+2714>                 <U+2702> <U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>
                                <U+2702><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2733><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                        <U+2702><U+2734><U+2733>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
                    <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2731> <U+2714>                   <U+2731> <U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>
                                <U+2731><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2733>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>
                            <U+2731><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2733><U+2714>
              <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>
                        <U+2731><U+2733><U+2733>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>
                    <U+2731><U+2734><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+2731><U+260E><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>
                                <U+272D><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+272D> <U+2714>                   <U+272D> <U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                            <U+272D><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                        <U+272D><U+2731><U+2733>                 <U+272D><U+272D><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+272D><U+2733>
              <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>
                    <U+272D><U+2733><U+2714>                 <U+272D><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
              <U+272D><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+2734><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>
                                <U+272D><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2714>                   <U+272D><U+260E><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D>   <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>
                            <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2714><U+2733>                   <U+2733> <U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>
                        <U+2733> <U+2733>                 <U+2733><U+2702><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2702><U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                    <U+2733><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2733><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2733><U+272D><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2733><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+270F><U+272B><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>
                                <U+2733><U+2701><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2733>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>
                            <U+2733><U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2733><U+2704><U+2733>                   <U+2733><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717>   <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B>
                        <U+2733><U+260E><U+2733>                 <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2733>
              <U+2737><U+271C><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+273D> <U+2711><U+2725><U+272A> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730>   <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2732><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2730><U+271C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2701><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271E>
                    <U+2701> <U+2714>                 <U+2701> <U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+272C> <U+2737><U+272B><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2737><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2739><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2730><U+2725>   <U+2711><U+2723><U+2725> <U+2712><U+272B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2714>                   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2733>                   <U+2701><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+2732><U+2725><U+2605>   <U+2712><U+272B><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2730><U+271C>
                                                      <U+2732><U+272F><U+273D><U+2717> <U+2733>

