ABS TRACT
Systems, apparatuses, methods, and software for monitoring compliance of sanitizees (e.g., health
care workers, food service workers, sanitization/janitorial workers etc.) with sanitization protocols to
be followed for encounters with sanitization-protocol targets (e.g., patients, food-preparation areas,
health care facilities/appurtenances, restrooms, etc.). In one example, a system includes sanitization
verification systems located close to the targets and mobile node devices issued to the sanitizees.
Each verification system can be configured to test the efficacy of sanitization procedures performed
by the sanitizees prior to encountering a target, to provide authorizations, via the node devices, to the
sanitizees to proceed with target encounters, and to open monitoring sessions during which the node
devices record information concerning interactions with the targets. The node devices are
configured to annunciate sanitization statuses of the sanitizees throughout a work period as the
sanitizees continually interact with verification stations and encounter targets.

                    SANITIZATION PROTOCOL MONITORING/COMPLIANCE
                    SYSTEMS, APPARATUSES, METHODS, AND SOFTWARE
RELATED APPLICATION DATA
[0001]       This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 61/627,601, filed on October 14, 2011, and titled "Hand Sanitation Protocol Monitoring
System," which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       The present invention generally relates to the field of health-related sanitization. In
particular embodiments, the present invention is directed to sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance systems, apparatuses, methods, and software.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
knowledge in the field.
[00041       Proper sanitation of workers in a variety of fields is important for inhibiting the spread of
diseases, infections, germs, bacteria, etc. For example, in the health care field, the World Health
Organization (WHO) opened its recent "Guidelines to Hand Hygiene in Health Care" (2009, ISBN
978 92 4 159790 6) with the statement "Health care acquired infections (HCAI) are a major problem
for patient safety and its surveillance, and prevention must be a first priority for settings and
institutions committed to making health care safer." In the U.S. health care system alone there are
an estimated nearly two million incidents where health care patients acquire infectious diseases from
being in a health care facility. These infections, sometimes referred to a "nosocomial infections,"
are unrelated to the patients' reasons for being admitted to their respective facilities. These
infections are also labeled "HCAI" (or "HAI" when "healthcare" is written as one word, which is
sometimes the case). Around 100,000 of the infected patients in the U.S. die from their HCAls
annually (about 273 people per day). This is greater than the number of people that die from
automobile accidents, breast cancer, and AIDS combined. Another field where proper worker
sanitization is important is the food service industry, where a single unsanitary worker, food
preparation tool, etc., can sicken many people that ingest food tainted as a result of improper
sanitization. Still another field where proper sanitization of workers and their tools in the
sanitization/janitorial field where the workers are responsible for sanitizing a variety of facilities,
                                                   1

such as health care facilities (human and animal), food service facilities, restroom facilities, and
virtually any other facility where infectious matter can be picked up by a human or animal by
transmission from an unsanitized or improperly sanitized surface, object, etc., within the
corresponding facility.
SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0005]       In one implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a system for enhancing
compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol for a sanitization-protocol target. The system
includes a sanitizee node device designed and configured to be carried by the sanitize, and receive a
monitoring session authorization that provides the sanitizee node device with permission to
recognize a valid sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter, and a sanitization verification
system designed and configured to provide the sanitizee node device with the monitoring session
authorization.
[0006]       In another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a method of monitoring
compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein the sanitizee carries an electronic
node device. The method includes receiving, by the electronic node device, a monitoring session
authorization from a sanitization verification system; automatedly starting, within the electronic
node device, an initial contact timer as a function of the first indication; recognizing, by the
electronic node device, the occurrence of a sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter via an
identification of a sanitization-protocol-target identifier; recording, by the electronic node device, the
sanitization-protocol-target identifier to a data store located onboard the electronic node device along
with a corresponding encounter-entry time stamp; detecting, by the electronic node device, when the
sanitizee has ended the sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter; and recording, by the
electronic node device, a time stamp indicating the end of the sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target
encounter.
[00071       In still another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a machine-readable
storage medium containing machine-executable instructions for performing a method of monitoring
compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein the sanitizee carries an electronic
node device. The machine-executable instructions include a first set of machine-executable
instructions for receiving, by the electronic node device, a monitoring session authorization from a
sanitization verification system; a second set of machine-executable instructions starting, within the
electronic node device, an initial contact timer as a function of the first indication; a third set of
                                                    2

machine-executable instructions recognizing, by the electronic node device, the occurrence of a
sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter via an identification of a sanitization-protocol-target
identifier; a fourth set of machine-executable instructions recording, by the electronic node device,
the sanitization-protocol-target identifier to a data store located onboard the electronic node device
along with a corresponding target zone entry time stamp; a fifth set of machine-executable
instructions detecting, by the electronic node device, when the sanitizee has ended the
sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter; and a sixth set of machine-executable instructions
recording, by the electronic node device, a time stamp to the sanitization protocol tracking health
care-zone record indicating the end of the sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter.
[0008]        In yet another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to an electronic node
device. The device includes memory containing machine-executable instructions for performing a
method of monitoring compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein the sanitizee
carries an electronic node device, the machine-executable instructions comprising: a first set of
machine-executable instructions for receiving, by the electronic node device, a monitoring session
authorization from a sanitization verification system indicating that the sanitizee has performed a
first sanitizing operation that includes a sanitation efficacy test; a second set of machine-executable
instructions for starting, within the electronic node device, an initial contact timer as a function of
the first indication; a third set of machine-executable instructions for recognizing, by the electronic
node device, the occurrence of a sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter via an identification
of a sanitization-protocol-target identifier; a fourth set of machine-executable instructions for
recording, by the electronic node device, the sanitization-protocol-target identifier to a data store
located onboard the electronic node device along with a corresponding target zone entry time stamp;
a fifth set of machine-executable instructions for detecting, by the electronic node device, when the
sanitizee has ended the sanitizee/sanitization-protocol-target encounter; and a sixth set of machine
executable instructions for recording, by the electronic node device, a time stamp to the sanitization
protocol tracking health-care-zone record indicating the end of the sanitizee/sanitization-protocol
target encounter; and a central processor in communication with the memory and designed and
configured to execute the machine-executable instructions.
[00091        In still yet another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a method of
monitoring compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein the sanitizee carries an
electronic node device. The method includes automatedly identifying the presence of hands of the
sanitizee at a sanitization efficacy test region; receiving test data from a sanitization efficacy test
                                                     3j

performed on the hands of the sanitizee at a sanitization efficacy test station; automatedly
communicating a monitoring session authorization to the electronic node device carried by the
sanitizee as a function of the identifying the presence of the hands; receiving sanitization protocol
monitoring session data from the electronic node device, wherein the sanitization protocol
monitoring session data is associated with the sanitization event identifier; and automatedly
communicating the sanitization protocol monitoring session data to a data processing system.
[0010]        In a further implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a machine-readable
storage medium containing machine-executable instructions for performing a method of monitoring
compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein the sanitizee carries an electronic
node device. The machine-executable instructions include a first set of machine-executable
instructions for automatedly identifying the presence of hands of the sanitizee at a sanitization
efficacy test region; a second set of machine-executable instructions for receiving test data from a
sanitization efficacy test performed on the hands of the sanitizee at a sanitization efficacy test
station; a third set of machine-executable instructions for automatedly communicating a monitoring
session authorization to the electronic node device carried by the sanitizee as a function of the
identifying the presence of the hands; a fourth set of machine-executable instructions for receiving
sanitization protocol monitoring session data from the electronic node device, wherein the
sanitization protocol monitoring session data is associated with the sanitization event identifier; and
a fifth set of machine-executable instructions for automatedly communicating the sanitization
protocol monitoring session data to a data processing system.
[0011]        In still another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a sanitization
verification system. The system includes memory containing machine-executable instructions for
performing a method of monitoring compliance of a sanitizee with a sanitization protocol, wherein
the sanitizee carries an electronic node device, the machine-executable instructions comprising: a
first set of machine-executable instructions for automatedly identifying the presence of hands of the
sanitizee at a sanitization efficacy test region; a second set of machine-executable instructions for
receiving test data from a sanitization efficacy test performed on the hands of the sanitizee at a
sanitization efficacy test station; a third set of machine-executable instructions for automatedly
communicating a monitoring session authorization to the electronic node device carried by the
sanitizee as a function of the identifying the presence of the hands; a fourth set of machine
executable instructions for receiving sanitization protocol monitoring session data from the
electronic node device, wherein the sanitization protocol monitoring session data is associated with
                                                     4

the sanitization event identifier; and a fifth set of machine-executable instructions for automatedly
communicating the sanitization protocol monitoring session data to a data processing system; and a
central processor in communication with the memory and designed and configured to execute the
machine-executable instructions.
[0012]       In another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a method of monitoring
compliance of one or more sanitizees with a sanitization protocol relative to one or more sanitization
protocol targets. The method includes providing one or more sanitization verification stations;
providing each sanitization protocol target with a unique target identification device; and providing
each sanitizee with an electronic node device; wherein: each sanitization verification station is
designed and configured to cause each electronic node device to open a monitoring session as a
function of a performance of a pre-target-encounter sanitization efficacy test by the corresponding
sanitizee; and each electronic node device is designed and configured to: interact with each
sanitization verification station to establish a monitoring session each time that sanitization
verification station has performed a pre-target-encounter sanitization efficacy test for the
corresponding sanitizee; collect monitoring session data stored onboard the electronic node device as
a function of the location of the electronic node device relative to the unique target identification
device; and interact with each sanitization verification station in uploading the monitoring session
data to a central data processing system.
[0013]       In still another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a method of
monitoring compliance of one or more health care workers with a sanitization protocol for
encounters with one or more monitored patients. The method includes issuing a wearable patient
identification device to each patient, wherein the wearable patient identification device embodies a
unique patient identifier; and issuing a mobile electronic node device to each health care worker,
wherein the mobile electronic node device is designed and configured to be carried by a health care
worker; so that the mobile electronic node device and the wearable patient identification device work
in conjunction with one another to dynamically establish a health-care-worker/monitored-patient
encounter as a function of the proximity of the mobile electronic node device and the wearable
patient identification device to one another; and to automatedly track data concerning the health
care-worker/monitored-patient encounter as a function of the location of mobile electronic node
device relative to the wearable patient identification device; and providing a sanitization verification
station that corresponds to the health-care-worker/monitored-patient encounter, wherein the
sanitization verification station is designed and configured to: perform a test to test efficacy of a first
                                                     5

hand sanitizing procedure performed by the health care worker; generate sanitation efficacy data
from the test; and initiate a monitoring session in the mobile electronic node device as a function
performance of the first hand sanitizing procedure.
[00141       In yet another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to an identification
device for identifying a target. The device includes a plurality of linked tags containing
identification information identifying the target, each tag: designed and configured to be readable by
a standoff reading device; and containing linking information that allows the standoff reading device
to associate the plurality of linking tags with one another; and a support structure designed and
configured to locate the identification device proximate to the target, wherein the plurality of linking
tags are supported by the support structure
[0015]       In still yet another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a system. The
system includes an identification device comprising a plurality of linked tags containing
identification information identifying a target associated with the identification device; and a
standoff reader having a plurality of differing reading range powers for reading ones of the plurality
of linked tags, wherein the standoff reader is designed and configured to change from one of the
differing reading range powers to another one of the differing reading range powers as a function of
how many of the plurality of linked tags the standoff reader concurrently detects during operation.
[0016]       In a further implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a standoff reader
designed and configured for use with a plurality of linked radio frequency identification (RFID) tags
containing 1) identification information identifying a target associated with the identification device
and 2) linking information associating the plurality of linked RFID tags with one another. The
standoff reader includes an antenna/transponder system designed and configured to energize each of
the plurality of linked RFID tags; a power source operatively connected to the antenna/transponder
system and designed and configured to energize the antenna/transponder system with differing tag
energizing powers at differing times; a tag reader designed and configured for reading the
identification information and linking information from each of the plurality of linked tags when in
reading range; and a power controller operatively connected to the power source and the tag reader,
the power controller designed and configured to change the power source from one of the differing
tag-energizing powers to another of the differing tag-energizing powers as a function of how many
of the plurality of the linked tags the tag reader has identified.
                                                    6

[0017]       According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an identification
device for identifying a patient in a medical setting, comprising:
             a plurality of tags, each of the tags being configured to produce a wireless identification
signal in response to an interrogation signal, wherein the identification signal can be used to identify
the patient; and
             a support structure designed and configured to locate the plurality of tags proximate the
patient, wherein each of the plurality of tags are supported by the support structure;
             wherein:
                    the interrogation signal is generated by a standoff reading device having a plurality
             of read-range powers and configured to change among the plurality of read range power
             levels based on the standoff reading device determining how many of the plurality of
             tags the standoff reading device identifies as being linked with one another; and
                    each tag includes:
                           a tag identifier that is unique to the patient, the tag identifier generating the
                    identification signal in response to the interrogation signal, wherein the tag
                    identifiers on the plurality of tags are identical to one another; and
                           an appended linking identifier appended to the tag identifier, the appended
                    linking identifier of each tag differing from the appended linking identifier on each
                    other of the plurality of tags and being selected and configured in conjunction with
                    the standoff reading device to 1) allow the standoff reading device to link all of the
                    plurality of tags with one another to the exclusion of any other tags within reading
                    range of the standoff reading device and 2) allow the standoff reading device to
                    determine how many of the plurality of tags the standoff reading device is
                    recognizing during use so that the standoff reading device can determine when to
                    change among the plurality of read-range powers.
[0018]       According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for
identifying a patient, the system comprising:
             an identification device for identifying the patient, said identification device including:
                    a plurality of linked tags containing identification information identifying the
      patient, each tag:
                           designed and configured to be readable by a standoff reading device; and
                                                       7

                           containing linking information that allows the standoff reading device to
                    associate the plurality of linking tags with one another; and
                           a support structure designed and configured to locate the identification
                    device proximate the patient, wherein said plurality of linking tags are supported
                    by said support structure,
             wherein said plurality of linked tags comprise a corresponding plurality of linked radio
frequency identification (RFID) tags, the system further comprising a standoff reader, possessed by a
healthcare worker, designed and configured to read said plurality of linked RFID tags, said standoff
reader including:
                    an antenna/transponder system designed and configured to energize each of the
      plurality of linked RFID tags;
                    a power source operatively connected to said antenna/transponder system and
      designed and configured to energize said antenna/transponder system with differing tag
      energizing powers at differing times;
                    a tag reader designed and configured for reading the identification information and
      linking information from each of the plurality of linked tags when in reading range;
                    a power controller operatively connected to said power source and said tag reader,
      said power controller designed and configured to change said power source from one of said
      differing tag-energizing powers to another of said differing tag-energizing powers as a
      function of how many of the plurality of the linked tags said tag reader has identified; and
                    a display indicator designed and configured to display an indication that a valid
      encounter between the patient and the healthcare worker is in process in response to
      identification of a plurality of the linked tags by the tag reader.
[0019]       Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims,
the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as
opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited
to".
[00201       It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
                                                     8

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]       For the purpose of illustrating the invention, the drawings show aspects of one or more
embodiments of the invention. However, it should be understood that the present invention is not
limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown in the drawings, wherein:
FIG. 1 is a plan view of an exemplary deployment of a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance
system of the present invention;
FIG. 2 is a schematic/block diagram of a unitary station embodying a sanitization verification system
that can be used in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present
invention, such as the deployment of FIG. 1;
FIG. 3A is an isometric view of a sanitization-protocol-target identification device that can be used
in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present invention, such
as the deployment of FIG. 1, wherein the device has a single radio-frequency identification (RFID)
tag;
FIG. 3B is an isometric view of an alternative sanitization-protocol-target identification device that
can be used in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present
invention, such as the deployment of FIG. 1, wherein the device has multiple RFID tags;
FIG. 3C is a side view of another sanitization-protocol-target identification device that can be used
in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present invention, such
as the deployment of FIG. 1, showing the device in a pre-deployment configuration;
FIG. 3D is a top view of the sanitization-protocol-target identification device of FIG. 3C, showing
the device in a deployment configuration with arch-shaped RFID tag standoff supports;
FIG. 4A is a schematic diagram illustrating an implementation of a sanitization-target-identification
scheme in which each sanitization-protocol-target identification device includes three linked RFID
tags and each node device has an RFID reader having multiple read ranges;
FIG. 4B is a high-level block diagram of an exemplary standoff RFID reader capable of reading the
identification device of FIG. 4A;
FIG. 5 is a schematic/block diagram of a node device that can be used in a sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present invention;
                                                    9

FIG. 6 is a diagram of a generic node device system that can be used in a sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present invention, wherein the system includes a
docking/charging station;
FIG. 7 is a block diagram of an exemplary sanitization compliance data processing system that can
be used in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present
invention;
FIG. 8 is flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method of 1) establishing, in a health care setting, a
monitoring session and 2) interacting with a sanitization verification station made in accordance with
the present invention; and
FIG. 9 is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method of establishing and ending a monitored
encounter between a health care worker and a patient, wherein the health care worker carries a node
device made in accordance with the present invention and the patient has an identification device
made in accordance with the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022]        The present invention encompasses many aspects, features, and embodiments that can be
instantiated in any of a variety of ways, such as systems, apparatuses, methods, and software. A
number of these aspects, features, and embodiments are illustrated below. However, because of the
fair amount of complexity attendant to actual instantiations of the present invention, the aspects,
features, and embodiments are presented below in a way that, while providing specific examples,
also convey the general and overarching aspects and features that those skilled in the art can use to
create other instantiations that fall within the scope of the present invention and the appended claims.
It should be understood that neither the examples provided nor the order of presentation of various
aspects, features, components, and embodiments, should necessarily infer order of importance or
inventive scope.
[0023]        In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of monitoring compliance of
one or more monitored persons (e.g., health care workers, food service workers,
sanitization/janitorial workers, etc.) with a pre-established sanitization protocol (e.g., a hand
sanitization protocol, a tool-sanitizing protocol, etc.) for one or more sanitization-protocol targets
(e.g., a health care patient, a food-preparation area, health care facility/appurtenance, etc.). An
important feature for some of the embodiments is the presence of one or more sanitization
verification systems (embodied, e.g., in unitary sanitization verification stations) that provide means
                                                    10

for at least testing for the performance of a sanitizing event by a monitored person and, in some
cases, actually determining the effectiveness of the sanitization event, before authorizing a
monitoring session, i.e., a time period where the monitored person is inferred or assumed to be in a
sanitized state and, therefore, authorized to have a sanitized encounter with a sanitization-protocol
target. Data collected from the testing performed at the one or more sanitization verification systems
can be used in a variety of ways, such as in generating reports that track sanitation compliance of the
monitored persons, to notify the monitored person and/or others of the effectiveness of the
sanitization, to control the monitored person's actions subsequent to the sanitization event, and any
logical combination of these, among other things. These and other benefits of performing
verification/effectiveness testing on sanitizing events are described below in connection with
detailed examples.
[00241        It is noted that while the various aspects, features, and embodiments of the present
invention can be applied to a variety of fields, such as the health care field, food service field, and
sanitization/janitorial field, for convenience the focus of the following examples is on the health care
field. To make these examples more readable, the terms "monitored health care worker" ("MW" for
short), "hand-sanitization protocol," and "monitored patient" ("MP" for short), and the like, are used
in lieu of the more general terms "monitored persons," "pre-established sanitization protocol," and
"monitored sanitization-protocol target," and the like. However, the generalities should not be lost
merely because of the nature of the examples.
EXEMPLARY DEPLOYMENT OVERVIEW
[0025]        Turning to a first detailed example, FIG. I illustrates an exemplary deployment 100 of
aspects, features, and embodiments of the present invention in a health care facility, such as a
hospital 102, which is just one among many other facilities that can benefit from such a deployment.
For the sake of simplicity, FIG. 1 shows hospital 102 as being abstracted to a plurality of health care
areas 104(1) to 104(N), which, for the purposes of this disclosure, are any areas where there are
encounters between patients, here, MPs, and/or item(s) in the MPs' immediate surroundings, and
health care workers, here, MWs, where there is a risk of the MW(s) transmitting hazardous matter
during such interaction to the MPs or to others. Such encounters include, but are not limited to
direct contact between an MW and an MP, and contact with and/or handling of bodily fluids,
excretions, items that have come into contact, etc., among other things. Examples of health care
areas include in-patient rooms, treatment rooms, operating rooms, imaging rooms, check-up rooms,
and patient recreation/activity rooms, among others.
                                                     11

[00261       Each health care area 104(1) to 104(N) includes one or more sanitization verification
stations (only one verification station 106(1) to 106(N) per health care area is shown for simplicity),
which are described in much detail below. As will also be described below in detail is the fact that
the association of at least one sanitization verification station 106(1) to 106(N) with a corresponding
health care area 104(1) to 104(N) results in that area becoming a "monitored space" in which
deployment 100 monitors MWs for compliance with the appropriate sanitation protocols. In this
embodiment, each sanitization verification station 106(1) to 106(N) is in communication with a
sanitization compliance data processing system 108 via one or more communications links, which
are collectively represented by cloud 110.
[0027]       Sanitization compliance data processing system 108 provides a number of functionalities
that are part of deployment 100. Sanitization compliance data processing system 108 can be
implemented in any one or more computing components, such as servers, that can be located onsite
at hospital 102, remotely from the hospital, or a combination of these. Regarding a combination of
local and remote components for sanitization compliance data processing system 108, in one
example, the local component can be a local server 112 located at hospital, while the remote
component can be one or more web servers 114 located at a remote facility, such as a server farm.
Local and remote web servers 112 and 114 can communicate with one another via a communications
network 116, which may include one or more global, wide-area, and local-area networks.
Cloud 110, i.e., the communications links between sanitization verification stations 106(1) to 106(N)
and sanitization compliance data processing system 108, can comprise any suitable local area
network(s), which can include at least one wired component (e.g., wired Ethernet), at least one
wireless component (e.g., a wireless router/network), and any logical combination of wired and
wireless components. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize the wide variety of ways in
which the communications links of cloud 110 can be implemented, such that detailed recitations and
an exhaustive list is not necessary for those skilled in the art to understand the breadth of the present
invention. The functionalities of sanitization compliance data processing system 108 are described
below in detail following descriptions of other parts of deployment 100.
[00281       For convenience, only one health care area 104(3) is shown in any detail to illustrate
basic principles and aspects of the present invention. With an understanding of the basics principles,
features, and aspects of the present invention, those skilled in the art will readily be able to
implement them in any of health care areas 104(1), 104(2), and 104(4) to 104(N), regardless of their
nature. In this example, health care area 104(3) is a double-occupancy inpatient room outfitted for
                                                    12

two MPs 118 and 120 each assigned to a corresponding bed 122 and 124. FIG. 1 also depicts first
and second MP read-range bubbles 11 8A and 120A corresponding respectively to patients 118
and 120. As will be understood from reading this entire disclosure, MP read-range bubbles 118A
and 120A are established by interaction of certain patient-identification devices 128A and 128B
carried, worn, or otherwise associated with each of MPs 118 and 120 with a node device 130 carried,
worn, or otherwise associated with MW 126. It is noted that while only a single MW 126 and only
one corresponding node device 130 is shown, in a typical deployment every health care worker that
interacts with at least one patient carries a node device that is the same as or similar to node
device 130. Detailed examples of patient-identification devices 128A and 128B and node
device 130 are presented below; however, immediately following is a description of various
functionalities of these devices to provide an overview.
[00291        Each patient-identification device 128A and 128B identifies the presence of the
corresponding MP 118 and 120 to any node device, in this example, node device 130. This
identification of presence can be conditional, for example, only occur when the node device (e.g.,
node device 130) is in a certain operational mode and/or within a certain proximity, as described
further below. This identification of presence can be performed in any of a variety of ways, such as
using techniques, such as, but not limited to, RFID detection or RF communication, infrared
detection or communication, visible light detection or communication, ultrasonic detection or
communication, and optical detection or recognition. In robust deployments, the interaction between
a node device, such as node device 130, and a patient-identification device, such as either of patient
identification devices 128A and 128B, not only identifies the presence of a patient, but also
identifies the particular patient and/or other information that may be associated with the particular
patient. In this connection, each patient-identification device can be encoded with and/or transmit a
unique patient identifier and/or other information that is/are readable by each of the node devices.
[0030]        The interaction of node device 130 with each of patient-identification devices 128A
and 128B is typically some sort of wireless interaction using, for example, energy in the
electromagnetic spectrum (such as radio frequency energy, infrared energy, visible light energy,
etc.), ultrasonic energy, magnetic energy, etc., and this interaction is used to establish the
corresponding respective MP read-range bubble 1 18A and 120A. As used herein and in the
appended claims, an "MP read-range bubble," such as each of MP read-range bubbles 11 8A
and 120A, is a defined region containing a corresponding MP, such as NP 118 and 120. The term
"bubble" is used to denote the 3D dimensionality of the region. For example, if each patient
                                                    13

identification device 128A and 128B includes one or more passive RFID tags and node device 130
includes an RFID reader, each MP read-range bubble 11 8A and 118B would typically be largely
spherical in the absence of any physical structures and/or body parts that interfere with signal
strength between the RFID reader and the RFID tag at issue. Hence, MP read-range bubbles 11 8A
and 11 8B are depicted as circles in the 2D drawing. As those skilled in the art will recognize,
however, when signal interference is present and/or each patient-identification device 128A and
 128B is designed to be directional, the shapes of read-range bubbles 1 18A and 118B would be non
spherical. It is noted that other read-range bubbles, denoted "RFID read-range bubbles" are
described below in connection with FIG. 5. As will become apparent from reading that description,
RFID read-range bubbles are related to MP read-range bubbles but are related to node devices, rather
than MPs.
[00311       Each NIP read-range bubble is typically sized to encompass the corresponding MP and
include a reasonable surrounding space that is likely to contain potentially contaminated items
associated with the MP and with which the MW is likely to come into contact with during
performance of their work with the MP. Examples of such items include all sorts of medical
equipment that an MP may use or may be used on the MP. As will be appreciated, since a read
range bubble is defined by interaction between a node device (e.g., node device 130) and a patient
identification device (e.g., either of patient-identification devices 128A and 128B) associated with a
particular MP as described above, when the MP wears or otherwise carries the patient-identification
device, the MP read-range bubble moves with the NP wherever the MP may go. As will be
described below in great detail, the determination of whether or not a given node device, and hence
corresponding MW, is within an MP read-range bubble is used in various decision-making steps.
[0032]       Each MP read-range bubble can be defined in any of a variety of ways and typically has
a predetermined size, and, in some cases, an MP read-range bubble can have multiple predetermined
sizes. For example, in the context of an RFID system in which each patient-identification
device 128A and 128B comprises an RFID tag and node device 130 comprises a corresponding
RFID tag reader, the size of the corresponding MP read-range bubble 11 8A and 120A can be
determined by the strength of the RFID system's signal. In this example, the presence of node
device 130, and hence MW 126, within an MP read-range bubble, such as either of MP read-range
bubbles 11 8A and 118B, is determined simply by the node device being close enough to the
corresponding patient-identification device, such as either of patient-identification devices 128A and
 128B, to be able to obtain the patient-identifying information on that patient-identification device.
                                                     14

Depending on the operational mode of node device 130, certain actions are taken depending on
whether the node device and MW 126 are located inside or outside an MP read-range bubble.
[0033]       As another example, regardless of the technology that node device 130 uses to identify
the existence of a patient-identification device, the size of the corresponding MP read-range bubble
can be determined in another manner, such as using an ultrasonic ranging system, optical ranging
system or RF-type ranging system, used to detennine the distance from the node device to the
patient-identification device or MP. In this example, the presence of node device 130, and hence
MW 126, within an MP read-range bubble, such as either of MP read-range bubbles 1 18A and 1 18B,
is determined simply by the node device comparing an actual distance measurement from its ranging
system to a preset boundary distance selected to define the outer boundary of the MP read-range
bubble. If the actual measurement is greater than the preset boundary distance, then node device 130
determines that it and MW 126 are not in the MP read-range bubble. However, if the actual
measurement is less than (or equal to, in this example) the preset boundary distance, then node
device 130 determines that it, and MW 126, are in the MP read-range bubble. Again, depending on
the operational mode of node device 130, certain actions are taken depending on whether the node
device and MW 126 are located inside or outside an MP read-range bubble.
[0034]       A monitored space 126A is established by interaction of node device 130 with any of
sanitization verification stations 106(1) to 106(N). Each sanitization verification station 106(1)
to 106(N) is located purposefully proximate to a corresponding health care area 104(1) to 104(N) to
allow the creation of a corresponding monitored space, such as monitored space 126A, which is a
region in which health care workers are mandated to follow certain sanitization protocols, such as
hand-sanitizing protocols, because of the likelihood that the health care worker(s) will have
encounters with the patient(s) in that space. In the present example, the sanitization protocol is a
hand-sanitization protocol that essentially tracks the recommended protocol described in the WHO
document mentioned in the Background section above, i.e., "Guidelines to Hand Hygiene in Health
Care." Briefly, that protocol recommends that health care workers sanitize their hands before
 1) touching a patient and 2) performing a clean/aseptic procedure and after 1) touching a patient,
2) touching a patient's surroundings, and 3) after body fluid exposure risk. Since all of these
sanitization events can be related to a particular patient, such as either patient 118 and 120, they can
be related to the corresponding MP read-range bubble, such as either of MP read-range
bubbles 1 18A and 120A.
                                                    15

[0035]        Simply stated, the WHO-recommended protocol, in the context of deployment 100 of
FIG. 1, can be boiled down to requiring a sanitizing event occur just prior to an encounter between
an MW and an MP (hereinafter, an "MW/MP encounter") for either of the two reasons listed above
(termed herein "pre-patient-encounter sanitizing event" or more generically "pre-sanitization-target
encounter sanitizing event") and just subsequent to the MW/MP encounter after the occurrence of
any of the three events listed above (termed herein "post-patient-encounter sanitizing event" or more
generically "post-sanitization-target-encounter sanitizing event"). Correspondingly, a "monitored
space," such as monitored space 126A, is defined herein as a region designated for containing one or
more MPs in which MW/MP encounters are likely to occur with frequency and in which a pre
patient-encounter sanitizing event and a post-patient-encounter sanitizing event should occur within
certain time limits, i.e., just before an MW/MP encounter and just after such an encounter.
[00361       An important feature of a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance deployment of the
present disclosure, such as deployment 100, is not only the monitoring of MWs in their interactions
with MPs in monitored spaces, but also the verification that the MWs have actually performed the
desired pre- and post-patient-encounter sanitizing events. Consequently, in terms of deployment 100
of FIG. 1, each monitored space, such as monitored space 126A, is facilitated by a corresponding
sanitization verification station 106(1) to 106(N), which is designed and configured to perform at
least one sanitization verification/effectiveness test following a sanitizing event perfonned by the
corresponding MW, such as MW 126.
[0037]       In one embodiment, described more fully below, monitoring within a monitored space is
typically instigated, or authorized, by the relevant sanitization verification 106(1) to 106(N)
triggering the node device, for example, node device 130, of the corresponding MW to "open" a new
electronic monitoring session during which the node device electronically records various
infonnation concerning any or all of various events that occur after the record has been opened, such
as events that occur in connection with MW/MP encounters. Depending on the speed at which
sanitization verification stations 106(1) to 106(N) obtains sanitization verification/effectiveness
measurements and results, the triggering of node device 130 to open a monitoring session can, for
example, be in response to the mere initiation or performance of a verification/effectiveness test
(e.g., for sensors that are too slow for real-time effectiveness triggering) or in response to a
determination that the results of one or more effectiveness tests meet one or more corresponding
threshold requirements. Examples of events for which node device 130 can record information,
include, but are not limited to, 1) establishment of wireless contact with a particular patient
                                                    16

identification device (via the patient-identification device's read-range bubble as touched on above)
and/or corresponding deduction of the beginning of an MW/MP encounter, 2) loss of contact with a
particular patient-identification device and/or corresponding deduction of the end of the MW/MP
encounter, 3) reestablishment of contact with the particular patient-identification device, 4) contact
with a second patient-identification device, 5) timing-out of a countdown timer, and 6) activation of
an alert or dismissal of an alert (override, etc.) by the corresponding MW, among others.
[0038]       After a monitoring session has been opened by the execution of a pre
patient(sanitization-target)-encounter sanitization event verification test on health care worker 126
by corresponding sanitization verification station 106(3) in this example, that monitoring session can
be effectively closed as a function of the MW performing a post-MW/MP-encounter sanitizing event
and causing sanitization verification station 106(3) to perform a second sanitization
verification/effectiveness test to test the effectiveness of the post-patient(sanitization-target)
encounter sanitization event. Similar to the opening of the monitoring session, the triggering of node
device 130 to close the session can, for example, be in response to the mere initiation or performance
of one or more effectiveness tests (e.g., for sensors that are too slow for real-time triggering) or in
response to a determination that the results of the effectiveness test(s) meet one or more threshold
requirements. A detailed example of the interaction of a sanitization verification station 106(1)
to 106(N) with any node device of illustrated deployment 100, such as node device 130, is described
below.
[0039]       Once a sanitization verification station, such as sanitization verification station 106(3),
has authorized a monitoring session and the corresponding node device, here node device 130, has
opened the monitoring session, the corresponding MW, here MW 126, may proceed to enter an
MW/MP encounter with an MP in the monitored space, in this example either MP 118 or 120. It is
noted that if authorization does not occur for some reason, the MW may still proceed to an MW/MP
encounter, but the MW will not be in an authorized state, and that fact will be discernable from the
information recorded by deployment 100. During the monitoring session, the node device monitors
and records various events that establish when a monitored MW/MP encounter starts and ends, as
well as monitors and records the status of the MW's authorization or sanitization as a function of
various time limits and contact with one or both of patient-identification devices 128A and 128B. A
detailed example of the functioning of a node device of the present invention during monitoring
sessions is described below in connection with FIG. 8.
                                                     17

COMPONENTS OF EXEMPLARY DEPLOYMENT
Sanitization Verification Systems
[0040]       Each sanitization verification system of the present disclosure, such as any one of
sanitization verification stations 106(1) to 106(N), is designed and configured to perform at least one
sanitization verification/effectiveness tests on each MW to verify that the MW has undergone the
appropriate sanitization (such as a sanitizing of hands with an alcohol-based sanitizer) and/or
measure the effectiveness of the sanitizing event performed by or on the MW. In the context of
sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment 100 of FIG. 1 in which the MWs,
such as MW 126, are directed to follow the hand-sanitization protocols recommended by the WHO,
each sanitization verification station 106(1) to 106(N) is designed and configured to perform at least
one hand-sanitization verification/effectiveness test on each MW after that MW has performed a
hand-sanitizing procedure. The type of test(s) performed will vary as a function of the type of hand
sanitizing procedure. For example, if the hand-sanitizing procedure utilizes an alcohol-based
sanitizer, then a corresponding sanitization verification/effectiveness test could be one that senses
the amount of alcohol that evaporates from either or both of the sanitizee's hands within a given
amount of time following performance of the hand-sanitizing procedure. As another example, if the
hand-sanitizing procedure utilizes a sanitizer that includes an invisible-light-activated marker, then a
corresponding sanitization verification/effectiveness test could be one that senses the amount,
intensity, etc., of the marker on one or both of the sanitizee's hands. In a further example, if the
hand-sanitizing procedure involves neither alcohol nor any other sort of sanitizer marker, then a
corresponding verification/effectiveness test may be one that senses the amount of bacteria and/or
other foreign matter remaining on the sanitizee's hands. For example, technology exists for spectral
analysis identification of bacteria at stand-off distances using quantum-cascade lasers. See, for
example, U.S. Patent No. 7,623,234 to Puzey and titled "SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR
DETECTING AND IDENTIFYING AN ANALYTE," which is incorporated herein by reference for
its teachings of such. A detailed example of a sanitization verification station implementing an
alcohol-based hand-sanitization verification/effectiveness test is described below.
[0041]       An additional core functionality that a sanitization verification station of the present
disclosure includes is the ability to communicate with each node device, such as node device 130 of
FIG 1. This communication can be one-way or two-way, depending on the configuration of the
sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment. As mentioned above in the
Overview section, one aspect of interaction between a sanitization verification station and a node
                                                    18

device is the opening of a monitoring session as a function of the execution of one or more pre
patient-encounter sanitization verification/effectiveness tests and the closing of that session as a
function of one or more post-patient-encounter sanitization verification/effectiveness tests.
Consequently, basic functionality of a sanitization verification station is communicating triggering
signals to node devices that signal the devices to open and close monitoring sessions. As those
skilled in the art will recognize, this can be done in any of a variety of ways, such as by a analog
signals or digitally encoded signals, which are preferably, but not necessarily, transmitted wirelessly
using a suitable wireless communications technology, such as WI-FITM technology, short- and very
short-range RF technology (e.g., BLUETOOTH@ technology, ANTTM technology, etc.), light
technology (e.g., infrared technology), and ultrasonic technology.
[00421       As mentioned above, at its most basic, communication between a sanitization
verification station and a node device can be one way. In such a case, the node device would be
designed and configured to store monitoring-session records and other data collected over a period
of time (e.g., during a health care worker's work shift), for example, for uploading to a central
database, such as a database stored in a sanitization compliance data processing system, such as
sanitization compliance data processing system 108 of FIG. 1. While one-way communication is
viable, in other deployments, such as sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system
deployment 100 of FIG. 1, two-way communication is utilized.
[0043]       Before describing scenarios and implementations involving two-way communication
between a sanitization verification station and a node device, it is noted that examples of different
bases upon which a sanitization verification station can instantiate a monitoring session include, but
are not limited to, 1) sensing of one or more of the MW's hands in a region designated for the testing
and 2) determining that one or more measurements made during testing (e.g., concentration of
alcohol, light intensity and/or coverage of a sanitizer marker, bacteria/foreign matter count or other
quantification or identification, etc.) is greater (or less than, depending on the type of indicator
measured) a pre-determined threshold value that provides a defining line between acceptable (pass)
and not acceptable (fail).
[00441       Regarding the former basis, this basis can be used for sanitization testing procedures that
may not be able to render measurement results in a timely manner, for example, due to limitations of
the technology used to implement a particular test or set of tests or complexity of the calculations to
be performed. In such cases, the sanitization verification station can be set up to initiate the opening
                                                      19

of a monitoring session without the measurement being finalized so as to not hold up progress of the
MW. In this case, the measurement results are nonetheless eventually obtained. Once the
measurement results have been obtained, they can be stored locally within the sanitization
verification station and/or sent to another location, such as a sanitization compliance data processing
system (e.g., system 108 of FIG. 1), for matching with the corresponding MW, sanitization
verification station, monitored space, etc., for subsequent data analysis and reporting.
[0045]       Regarding the latter basis for monitoring-session authorization, when a sanitization
verification station can render measurement results quickly enough that the MW would not be
unduly delayed, the sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment can be
configured to use the measurement results to determine, in real time, whether or not the hands of the
MW meet a minimum threshold sanitized level. As mentioned above, this can be done, for example,
by the sanitization verification system comparing the measurement(s) to one or more acceptable
threshold values. If the measurement(s) indicate that the MW's hands have been acceptably
sanitized, then, for example, the sanitization verification station may communicate an open
monitoring-session, or authorization, signal to the node device of the MW that causes the node
device to open a new monitoring session if the sanitizing procedure just performed is a pre-MW/MP
encounter sanitizing procedure. The node device can additionally/alternatively use this signal for
one or more other purposes, such as to initiate a timer and to cause an annunciator of the node device
to provide an indication of the status. If the sanitizing procedure is a post-MW/MP-encounter
sanitizing procedure, then, for example, the verification station may communicate a signal to the
node device that causes the node device to control an annunciator to indicate that the health care
worker performed the post-MW/PW-encounter sanitizing procedure successfully and that the
worker's hands are properly sanitized. The node device may also use this signal to close the
monitoring session and also, if the sanitization verification station and node device are so
configured, to trigger the uploading of information collected by the node device during the
monitoring session to the verification station.
[0046]       On the other hand, if a comparison of the measurement(s) to one or more corresponding
threshold values indicates that the level of sanitization of the MW's hands does not meet the
requirements, then, for example, the sanitization verification station may still issue an open
monitoring-session signal if the sanitizing procedure is a pre-MW/PW-encounter sanitizing
procedure. This way, interactions with one or more MPs would still be recorded. However, in
addition to issuing an open-monitoring session signal, sanitization verification station could also be
                                                    20

programmed to communicate a signal to node device that instructs the node device to alert the MW
to the failed attempt at sanitizing his/her hands. While alert functionality of a node device is
described in more detail below, briefly, alerts can take any suitable form, such as tactile (e.g.,
vibration), aural (e.g., beep(s) or other tone(s), spoken statement), visual (e.g., illumination of a red
LED), etc., and any suitable combination of these. Additionally, or alternatively, the sanitization
verification station itself may be outfitted with its own alert indicator(s). In conjunction with the
issuance of an alert, the MW may be instructed to perform the sanitizing and/or verification/
effectiveness testing procedures again.
[0047]       It is noted that while in the foregoing example the sanitization verification station
performed the task of determining whether or not the test measurement(s) indicated a successful
sanitizing event, this functionality can be performed by another component of the sanitization
protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment. For example, each node device can be
programmed to receive the measurement data from the sanitization verification station, make the
comparison with the preset threshold(s), and execute a next step according to the results of the
comparison. Regarding the last item, the node device could be programmed, for example, to 1) open
a monitoring session when the effectiveness results are for a pre-MW/MP-encounter sanitizing
procedure and they are positive; 2) open a monitoring session but provide an alert to the MW when
the effectiveness results are negative; and 3) communicate effectiveness results to the sanitization
verification station, among others. In yet other sanitization protocol monitoring/ compliance system
deployments that include a sanitization compliance data processing system, such as sanitization
compliance data processing system 108 of FIG. 1, the tasks of detennining whether or not the test
measurement(s) indicate(s) a successful sanitizing event and issuing notifications to a sanitization
verification station and/or a corresponding node device can be performed by the sanitization
compliance data processing system.
[0048]       In some embodiments, each sanitization verification system can be designed and
configured as a standalone station that can be installed in a patient room or other room or area of a
health care facility, typically near a sanitizing station, i.e., a facility/place where an MW can perform
a sanitizing procedure, such as a sanitizer dispensing station or a scrub sink. In lieu of a fixed
sanitizing station, an MW could carry a personal sanitizer dispenser that dispenses a suitable hand
sanitizer, such as an alcohol-based sanitizer. In other embodiments, each of some or all of the
sanitizing verification stations may include an integrated hand-sanitizer station, such as a sanitizer
                                                     21

dispenser. Those skilled in the art will readily understand the various ways in which a sanitization
verification station of the present disclosure can be deployed based on the examples provided herein.
[0049]        As mentioned above relative to FIG. 1, when a particular sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system deployment, such as deployment 100, includes a sanitization
compliance data processing system, each sanitization verification station can be in communication
with the sanitization compliance data processing system so that it can provide data/signals to and/or
receive data/signals from the sanitization compliance data processing system. Examples of data that
a sanitization verification station can provide include, but are not limited to, a unique identifier
identifying the specific verification station, measurement data and/or test result data from the
verification/ effectiveness test(s), a unique identifier identifying each MW that subjects his/her hands
to a verification/effectiveness test at that verification station, and records and/or other data uploaded
from any of the node devices, such as the monitoring session records mentioned above. Examples of
data/signals that a sanitization verification station can receive include, but are not limited to, data
and/or signals relating to calibration of the sanitization verification station and node status. Further
details and examples of functionality that each sanitization verification station can be provided with
are presented below.
[0050]        As just mentioned, some of the data that a sanitization verification station of the present
disclosure can provide to a sanitization compliance data processing system includes the verification
station's own unique identifier and a unique identifier for each MW that initiates
verification/effectiveness testing at that station. Each of these unique identifiers can be obtained and
provided in any of a variety of ways. Regarding unique identifiers for sanitization verification
stations, each verification station can, for example, be provided with an RFID tag and an RFID tag
reader that can read its own RFID tag when prompted, for example, in conjunction with the initiation
of the verification/effectiveness testing. This arrangement can be useful when implemented with
RFID-tag-based equipment inventory systems, since the facility will already have experience with
RFID-based systems and related software. Alternatively, each sanitization verification station can be
programmed with a unique identifier that is stored in onboard memory and can be retrieved at an
appropriate time, for example, in conjunction with the initiation of verification/effectiveness testing.
[0051]        Regarding unique identifiers for MWs, each MW can be issued an identification badge,
tag, or other item that includes a standoff-readable identification-bearing device, such as an RFID
tag (typically of the passive type), that embodies a unique identifier associated with that MW. While
                                                     22

RFID tags are ubiquitous and suitable choices for MW identification, those skilled in the art will
readily appreciate that other types of identification technology, such as bar code, QR code, etc.,
could alternatively be used. Then, each sanitization verification station can be outfitted with a
suitable standoff reader (e.g., RF-based, light-based, sound-based, etc.) that can read the MW's
identification-bearing device. For example, when the MW's identification-bearing device is an
RFID tag, the sanitization verification station can be outfitted with an RFID tag reader (which can be
the same one mentioned above in the scenario wherein the sensing system has its own RFID tag) that
reads the health care worker's RFID tag at an appropriate time, for example, in conjunction with
initiation of verification/effectiveness testing. Alternatively, depending on how the node devices are
configured, each node device may store the corresponding MW's unique identifier. Then, if/when
the identifier is needed by a sanitization verification station, the sanitization verification station can
be configured to query the node device for it. Alternatively, in some embodiments the sanitization
protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment can be configured so that the node devices push
the MW's unique identifier to each sanitization verification station with which the MW interacts.
[0052]       In yet another example, each node device can be provided with one or more
identification device readers, such as an RFID tag reader, which can read patient identification
devices associated uniquely with corresponding respective MPs as well as MW identification
devices and sanitization verification station identification devices, and can be configured to read
those devices and provide the corresponding respective unique identifier data to a particular
sanitization verification station at issue. Those skilled in the art will readily understand the variety
of ways that unique identifying information can be obtained and handled using the examples herein
as a guide.
[0053]       FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a sanitization verification system 200 that
can be used in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system deployment of the present
invention, such as deployment 100 of FIG. 1. Referring to FIG. 2, sanitization verification
system 200 is embodied in a unitary verification station 204 that is designed and configured to
perform a sanitization verification/effectiveness test for an alcohol-based sanitizer. Components of
verification station 204 include a central processing system 208, a sensing region 212, an alcohol
sensing/measurement system 216, a hand-presence sensor 220, a first communications system 224, a
second communications system 228, an RFID tag 232, an RFID reader 236, and a display
system 240, among other things. As is well known in the art, central processing system 208 may
include one or more microprocessors or other processing devices (not shown), one or more
                                                    23

memories (not shown), and one or more communications buses, such as bus 208A, or other
 input/output means. As will be readily appreciated, central processing system 208 is designed,
 configured, and programmed to provide at least the functionality of sanitization verification
 station 204 described above and below.
 [0054]       Sensing region 212 is a region where an MW places his/her hands for verification/
 effectiveness testing to be performed. Typically, especially in the present example with an alcohol
based sanitizer from which the alcohol therein evaporates relatively quickly, once an MW finishes
 sanitizing with a sanitizer (not shown) the MW relatively quickly (e.g., within about 3 seconds)
moves his/her hands to sensing region 212 for verification/effectiveness testing by alcohol
 sensing/measurement system 216.
 [0055]       Alcohol sensing/measuring system 216 includes one or more suitable alcohol
 sensors 216A, such as one or more electronic noses that are sensitive to the presence of the
 alcohol(s) present in the subject sanitizer, such as isopropanol, ethanol, and n-propanol, among
 others, and any logical combination thereof. It is noted that if multiple sanitizer types are used in a
particular health care setting, alcohol sensing/measuring system 216 can be configured to measure
the presence of each type. In addition, it is noted that if the sensor technology used does not allow a
just-used sensor to cleared and be ready for another sensing event in a relatively short amount of
time, for example, the minimum amount of time that two MWs could successively sanitize and
 subject their hands to testing or that a single MW could re-sanitize after a failed sanitizing event,
 alcohol sensing/measuring system 216 may be provided with multiple sensors of the same type that
 are moved or otherwise individually placed into operation sequentially as needed for taking
 successive measurements. In one example, sensor 216A is 32mm round alcohol-sensing
 electrochemical fuel cell sensor available from PAS Systems International, Fredericksburg, Virginia.
Alcohol sensing/measurement system 216 may also include one or more fans 216B or other devices
 for moving alcohol vapors from sensing region 212 to sensor 216A to assist in the
 sensing/measurement process. In some embodiments, alcohol sensing/measurement system 216 may
 include its own processor 216C for converting the raw output of sensor 216A to a signal 216D
 suitable for providing to central processing system 208 and/or for converting the raw output of the
 sensor to a human meaningful value. In some embodiments, such value could be displayed to the
health care worker, for example, via display 240.
                                                     24

[00561       In the embodiment shown in FIG. 2, hand-presence sensor 220 is provided so that
sanitization compliance data processing system 208 knows when one or more hands are present in
sensing region 212 and, therefore, knows when to activate alcohol sensing/measuring system 216.
In one example, hand-presence sensor 220 is a GP2Y0D805ZOF infrared digital proximity sensor,
available from Sharp Microelectronics of the Americas, Camas, Washington, but may be of any
other suitable type. Activation of alcohol sensing/measuring system 216 can include, for example,
any one or more of initiating execution of a sensing algorithm 216E within processor 216C,
activating alcohol sensor 216A, and activating fan(s) 216B, among other things. In embodiments
using multiple alcohol sensors due to relatively long sensor clearing times, hand-presence sensor 220
may also be used to trigger moving a fresh, or cleared, sensor into place when the hand-presence
sensor detects that the hands have been removed from sensing region 212. Of course, such
triggering can be accomplished in another manner, such as by using a timer or based on the
operation of one or more fans.
[0057]       First communications system 224 can be an RF or other type of wireless system for
communicating information from sanitization verification station 204 to any node device of the
present invention, such as node device 130 of FIG. 1 (see also node device 600 of FIG. 6), and/or
information from any such node device to the verification station. For example, first
communications system 224 can include at least one of a WI-FITM device and a short- or very-short
range RF device, such as a BLUETOOTH@ RF device, an ANTTM device, or the like. As described
in the Overview section above, information handled by first communications system 224 can
include, but not be limited to, sanitization verification pass (e.g., monitoring-session authorization)
and fail signals, sanitization test data, sanitization verification station identification information, and
information collected by node device during one or more monitoring sessions. In this example, first
communications system 224 is in communication with sanitization compliance data processing
system 208 via bus 208A, and the sanitization compliance data processing system controls the
overall operation of sanitization verification station 204, including the operation of the first
communications system.
[00581       Second communications system 228 can include any sort of device(s) that can
communicate information from sanitization verification station 204 to a sanitization compliance data
processing system, such as sanitization compliance data processing system 108 of FIG. 1 and/or
from the sanitization compliance data processing system to the verification station. Second
communications system 228 can include one or more wireless devices, such as IEEE 802.11 devices
                                                      25

or equivalents, and/or one or more wired devices, such as IEEE 802.03 devices or equivalents,
among others. As described in the Overview section above, information handled by second
communications system 228 can include, but not be limited to, information concerning sanitization
verification station 204, verification/effectiveness test data and related information collected at the
verification station, and information collected by node devices that is uploaded to the verification
station, including infonnation collected during sanitization monitoring sessions. In this example,
second communications system 228 is in communication with central processing system 208 via bus
208A, and the central processing system controls the operation of the second communications
system.
[0059]       RFID tag 232 is typically a passive-type RFID tag (though it can be of the active or
battery assisted type) that contains an identifier that uniquely identifies sanitization verification
station 204 so that usage and operation of the verification station can be tracked and associated with
the user's (i.e., the MWs) of the station. RFID reader 236 includes circuitry and one or more
antennas for reading RFID tag 232, if present, and any RFID tags (see below) uniquely associated
with each MW as they approach to use verification station 204. RFID readers suitable for use as
RFID reader 236 are ubiquitous and need not be described herein in further detail for those skilled in
the art to make and use the present invention. In this example, RFID reader 236 is in communication
with central processing system 208 via bus 208A, and the central processing system interacts with
the RFID reader as needed. In lieu of REID tag 232 and/or RFID reader 236, a unique identifier for
sanitization verification station 204 can be stored in memory 244 associated with central processing
system 208. Memory 244 is represented generically in FIG. 2, and it can contain any type of
memory used in digital processing systems, including, but not limited to volatile (e.g., RAM, cache,
etc.) and non-volatile memory (solid state storage memory, optical memory, magnetic memory, etc.),
and any combination thereof.
[0060]       Display system 240 can include any means suitable for conveying information to a
person, such as an MW, proximate to sanitization verification station 204 and/or for allowing a user
to interact with the verification station, such as to program it with desired settings and to control the
various functionality it provides. Such information can include, but not be limited to, verification/
effectiveness testing status and/or results, general status information for sanitation verification
station 204, verification station functionality controls and configuration information, and MW
sanitation status, among other things. To convey such information, display system 240 may include
an electronic display 240A, e.g., a flat-panel video display or other type of display and/or one or
                                                     26

more indicators 240B, such as aural indicators that emit beep(s) and/or other tone(s), spoken
statements, and visual indicators that emit light, and any suitable combination of such indicators.
Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate the variety of means that are available for
implementing in display system 240 to provide the desired functionality of information conveying
and/or receiving user input.
[0061]       Central processing system 208 executes software instructions 248 (e.g., in firmware
and/or other for(s)) that control all of the automated functionality and sequences of operation of
sanitization verification station 204 as well as control the overall functioning of the verification
station and its components. Those skilled in the art will readily be able to create software
instructions 248 with routine programming knowledge once provided with a particular set of
components and a particular set of functionalities, such as the functionalities described above and
below.
Sanitization-protocol-target identification devices
[0062]       Each sanitization-protocol-target identification device (e.g., patient-identification device
in a health care context) can be any device that provides a corresponding sanitization-protocol target
with an identifier that uniquely identifies the target and that can be read by a node device carried by
an MW. In some embodiments in the health care context, each target-identification device is
embodied in an identification bracelet that is generally similar to some types of conventional
identification bracelets currently issued by hospitals and other health care facilities to patients but is
configured to particularly enable certain functionality of a sanitation protocol monitoring/compliance
system of the present disclosure. In non-health-care settings, as well as in health care settings, the
sanitization-protocol-target identification devices can be embodied in forms other than bracelets,
such as tags that can be affixed or otherwise attached to or carried by the corresponding target.
Several examples of bracelet-based sanitization-protocol-target identification devices are described
immediately below.
[0063]       Generally, a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system of the present
disclosure uses each sanitization-protocol-target identification device to identify the sanitization
protocol target, such as a patient, and to make various compliance and monitoring determinations
and sanitization status updates relative to the sanitization-protocol target based on detection of a
sanitization-protocol-target identification device. Such determinations and updates are based on
proximity of a node device carried by an MW to a sanitization-protocol-target identification device.
                                                    27

Close proximity of a node device to a sanitization-protocol-target identification device during a time
when a monitoring session is open is the basis for inferring that there is an encounter between an
MW and a sanitization-protocol target that warrants that the MW has properly sanitized. To effect
this functionality, an MW/sanitization-target (e.g., MP) encounter region is defined and established
around the sanitization-protocol target in which such an encounter is likely to occur. The encounter
region can be defined in a number of ways, depending on how the sanitization protocol monitoring/
compliance system is configured.
[0064]       For example, if each node device is outfitted with an RFID reader and each sanitization
protocol-target identification device includes a passive RFID tag, then the MW/MP encounter region
can be defined by the MP read-range bubble, which as mentioned above is the space bounded by an
envelope that is spaced from the RFID tag in the sanitization-protocol-target identification device by
a distance at which the read signal is just strong enough to allow the RFID reader of the node to
detect the RFID tag. Correspondingly, the read signal strength within the MP read-range bubble is
strong enough for RFID-tag detection and too weak outside the MP read-range bubble for RFID-tag
detection. In this example, the size of the MW/MP encounter region is determined by the strength of
the read signal. As another example, when read-signal strength is not considered, the encounter
region can be determined by a combination of target-sanitization-identification device detection with
some sort of distance-detection means, such as an ultrasonic distance detector or light-based distance
detector, among others. In this example, the size of the MW/MP encounter region is determined by
pre-establishing an envelope based on offset distance(s) (there could be multiple distances at
different locations around the target) from the sanitization-protocol target or other reference within
the encounter region. During operation, presence of an MW inside or outside an MP encounter
region is determined by comparing an actual measured distance with the relevant pre-established
offset distance. If the measured distance is less than the offset distance, the sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system (.e.g., node device) would determine that the MW is inside the
encounter region, and if the measured distance is greater than the offset distance, the sanitization
protocol monitoring/compliance system (.e.g., node device) would determine that the MW is outside
the encounter region.
[00651       FIG. 3A illustrates one example of a sanitization-protocol-target identification device in
the form of a band-type (e.g., bracelet- or anklet-type) patient-identification device 300 for a health
care deployment of a sanitation protocol monitoring/compliance system of the present disclosure.
Patient-identification device includes a band 304 and one or more passive RFID integrated circuits
                                                   28

(ICs), here, one IC 308 having one antenna 312. Band 304 can be any suitable configuration and can
be made of any suitable material in molded, sheet, spunbonded, woven, or other form, and any
combination thereof. Typically, though not necessarily, band 304 would be made of a disposable
material and would be configured in a manner that conforms to or adheres to a part of a patient's
body, such as a wrist, arm, or ankle, and that may allow human and/or machine-readable printing to
be placed on it.
[0066]       Device 300 includes an appendage 316 that extends away from band 304 for supporting
RFID tag 308 in a manner that increases the likelihood that antenna 312is relatively free from
structures, for example, body parts, that might interfere with the RFID tag being detected by an
RFID reader. Appendage 316 can be made of the same material as band 304 and is preferably made
of a material that minimizes absorbance and blocking of signals necessary for reading RFID tag 308.
RFID tag 308 is secured to appendage 316 in any suitable manner, such as by adhesive bonding.
RFID tag 308 can be encoded with unique patient identification information at an appropriate time,
such as upon admission to the health care facility and may be printed upon and/or color coded to
convey as much information visually as deemed appropriate or as desired for the particular facility.
In the embodiment shown, RFID tag 308 is secured to an appendage 304A of band 304. This is
done to lessen the likelihood of interference with the reading of RFID tag 308 by a node device (not
shown) or other device having a compatible RFID reader. Any information stored on REID tag 308,
or portion thereof, can be encrypted to inhibit unauthorized access to that information.
[0067]       FIG. 3B illustrate another sanitization-protocol-target identification device 320 that is
similar to device 300 of FIG. 3A in that it is embodied in a band form. However, instead of
device 320 of FIG. 3B having a single appendage as in device 300 of FIG. 3A, device 320 of
FIG. 3B has multiple such appendages, here three appendages 324A, 324B, and 324C, spaced apart
around the circumference of the band 328. Each appendage 324A, 324B, and 324C includes one or
more antenna modules 332; the spacing of the appendages increases the likelihood that if one (or
more) of the RFID ICs is (are) occluded by a signal absorber, at least one of the remaining antenna
modules is not critically occluded. This increase the likelihood that the size and shape of the read
range bubble is as close to desired size and shape as practicable.
[0068]       FIGS. 3C and 3D illustrate yet another example of a band-based sanitization-protocol
target identification device 340 that can be used in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance
system of the present disclosure. Device 340 of FIG. 3C includes a band 344 and a plurality of tag
                                                   29

standoff supports, here, three supports 348A, 348B, and 348C, that each contain a corresponding
respective RFID tag 352A, 352B, and 253C. FIGS. 3C shows band 344 in a flat, unconnected
configuration and each of tag standoff supports 348A, 348B, and 348C also in an unconnected
configuration. However, band 344 includes a closure mechanism 356 for holding band 344 in a ring
shape. The band 344 also includes three connectors 360A, 360B, and 360C used for connecting the
free ends (FIG. 3C) of corresponding respective ones of tag standoff supports 348A, 348B, and 348C
to the band. Connectors 360A, 360B, and 360C are located so that when the free ends of antenna
standoff supports 348A, 348B, and 348C are connected thereto, as shown in FIG. 3D (which also
shows closure mechanism 356 engaged), each antenna standoff support forms an arched shape. This
shaping of standoff supports 348A, 348B, and 348C beneficially provides airspace over and under
tags 352A, 352B, and 253C that allows for an improved RFID signal detection rate by exposing both
sides of the antennas to in-air signals and providing a higher percentage of reading signals when read
by an RFID reader. The performance of device 340 is further enhanced by the separation of tags
352A, 352B, and 253C from patient installation band 344. Since an RFID tag can be grounded by
contact with a patient's body, thereby compromising the tag's ability to respond to a read signal,
attaching tag standoff supports 348A, 348B, and 348C at an angle and creating an arch shape
removes tags 352A, 352B, and 352C from physical contact with the wearers' body where the
installation band 344 is placed, so as to avoid or at least lessen the grounding issue.
[0069]       In some embodiments of sanitization-protocol-target identification device 340, each
RFID tag 352A, 352B, and 352C can be encoded with the same information. However, in other
embodiments, each of tags 352A, 352B, and 352C can be encoded so that at least some of the
encoded information differs among the tags. For example, each of tags 352A, 352B, and 352C is
encoded with the same unique tag identifier, but the identifier on each tag is appended with a linking
sequence. In the present case in which sanitization-protocol-target identification device 340, each
tag 352A, 352B, and 352C is encoded with a unique identifier, such as "AAABBB", that is the same
on all the tags, but tag 352A has an appended linking identifier, such as "111", encoded on it,
making the tag reading "AAABBB-link 111", tag 352B has its linking identifier written to it as
"222", and tag 352C has its linking identifier written to it as "333".
[00701       Referring to FIG. 4A, correspondingly each RFID-reader-containing node device worn
by an MW, such as node device 400 worn by MW 404, has an RFID read range signal emitted in a
bubble area in front of and/or around the MW, the shape of the bubble area dictated by a number of
factors, such as the configuration antenna (not shown) of the node device, the presence of signal
                                                   30

absorbers in the area, and signal characteristics of the RFID reader (not shown). When a sanitation
verification station has issued authorization to node device 400 to open a monitoring session,
firmware on the node device looks to establish contact with sanitization-protocol-target
identification device 340, here worn by an MP 408, using a read formula of X number of identical
reads reading unique identifiers, within Y time. The defined number X of identical unique hits in Y
time to any one of tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIGS. 3C and 3D) establishes a positive link to
sanitization-protocol-target identification device 340. The firmware aboard node device 400,
recognizing a positive link to device 340, instructs the node device to maintain this link and to
exclude other possible links from casual reads of other RFID tags that might be in the immediate
vicinity of the node device, such as RFID tags on sanitization verification stations and RFID tags on
other sanitization-protocol-target identification devices. To assist in doing this, the firmware, with
node device 400 set to a relatively high RFID-reading-signal power (corresponding to read-range
bubble 412 of FIG. 4A), looks for a linked RFID tag once the hit quantity X in the specified time Y
qualifier has been established. It is noted that this initial relatively high RFID-reading-signal power
can be set in response to node device 400 receiving the authorization from the sanitization
verification station. Finding a pair of linked unique identifiers, such as the "AAABBB-link 111"
and "AAABBB-link 333" identifier of RFID tags 352A and 352B (FIGS. 3C and 3D), respectively,
node device 400 shrinks read-range bubble 412 of its reading signal to a smaller read-range bubble
416, for example, by reducing the power of its read signal. The firmware then looks for the last
linked RFID tag, here RFID tag 352C (FIGS. 3C and 3D), and upon finding it via its unique linked
identifier "AAABBB-link 222", it causes node device 400 to further reduce its REID read-range
bubble from read-range bubble 416 to a smaller read-range bubble 420 that is fairly tight around
sanitization-protocol-target identification device 340 and MP 408. As those skilled in the art will
readily appreciate, the size of the MW/MP encounter region 424 at read-range bubble 420 will be a
function of the smallest read-range bubble 420. The read-range bubble of node device 400 is
adjusted to large, medium, and small read range areas as long as the required number of hits X in the
defined time Y defined is maintained. The plurality of linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIGS. 3C
and 3D) increases the number of hits in the specified time, and the firmware does not allow a new
association with a different unique identifier until a total break from the established association is
achieved and a time clock has expired. On the other hand, if the hit rate for an identified target goes
down, the RFID-signal-reading power can be increased to change the size of the read-range bubble,
for example, from read-range bubble 420 to read-range bubble 416 or 412.
                                                    31

[0071]         FIG. 4B illustrates an exemplary standoff RFID tag reader 440 that is designed and
configured for reading the plurality of linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C of sanitization-protocol
target identification device 340 of FIGS. 3C, 3D, and 4A and provide a plurality of read-range
bubbles of differing size, for example, bubbles 412, 416, and 420 of FIG. 4A. In this connection,
exemplary standoff RFID tag reader 440 can be incorporated into node device 400 of FIG. 4A or any
other suitable device. Referring to FIG. 4B, and also to FIGS. 4A and 3D as noted, in this example
each of the plurality of linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D) is a passive RFID tag that is
energized and activated by power transmitted by one or more tag-energizing antennas tuned to the
appropriate energizing frequency of the linked tags. In this example, standoff reader 440 includes an
energizing antenna system 444 that is tuned to the energizing excitation frequency of linked RFID
tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D). Energizing antenna system 444 may include one or more
individual tuned antennas (not shown). Power for energizing the antenna(s) of antenna system 444
is provided by a suitable power source 448 that may include a battery (not shown) and any
electronics (not shown) needed to provide the appropriate output for energizing the antenna system.
RFID tag energizing antennas and power electronics for providing power to such antennas are well
known in the art.
[0072]         In this example, the multiple differing-size read-range bubbles 412, 416, and 420
(FIG. 4A) are provided by changing the amount of power from power source 448 provided to
antenna system 444 as a function of the number of linked RFID tags 352A, 352B, and 352C
(FIG. 3D) standoff RFID reader 440 is detecting concurrently, as enabled, for example, by the
linked-identifier scheme described above. In the embodiment of standoff RFID reader 440 shown,
this changing of the power provided to antenna system 444 is performed by a power controller 452
that itself is under the control of a tag reader 546. As described above relative to FIG. 4A, the
greater the number of linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D) being detected concurrently, the
smaller the read-range bubble that is provided by node device (FIG. 4A). In standoff RFID
reader 440 of FIG. 4B, tag reader 456 provides the functionality of determining how many of linked
tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D) are being detected at any given time, or in a very small
window of time, depending on exactly how the RFID-tag reading circuitry is configured. Tag
reader 456 may then provide the number of concurrently detected linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C
(FIG. 3D) to power controller 452, which uses this number to determine which of multiple available
power levels, here three power levels (high, intermediate, and low) corresponding respectively to
read-range bubbles 412, 416, and 420 of FIG. 4A, it should provide to antenna system 444.
                                                     32

[0073]       In one example, if tag reader 456 is detecting only a single one of linked tags 352A,
352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D) (or none of the linked tags) and the multiple-read-range bubble scheme
calls for the largest read-range bubble (e.g., bubble 412 of FIG. 4A) when no or only one linked tag
is detected, then the tag reader may provide power controller 452 a "0" of "l",or a binary
equivalent, etc., and the power controller, as a result, would provide the maximum power to antenna
system 444. However, when tag reader 456 is detecting all three linked tags 352A, 352B, and 352C
(FIG. 3D) substantially concurrently and the scheme calls for a minimum-size read-range bubble
(e.g., bubble 420 of FIG. 4A) under this condition, then the tag reader provides a "3" (or its binary
equivalent, etc.) to power controller 452, and the power controller provides the lowest tag-energizing
power to antenna system 444. Similarly, when tag reader 456 is detecting two of the three linked
tags 352A, 352B, and 352C (FIG. 3D) substantially concurrently under the present scheme, then the
tag reader provides a "2" (or its binary equivalent, etc.) to power controller 452, and the power
controller provides an intermediate tag-energizing power to antenna system 444 to provide an
intermediate-size read-range bubble (e.g., bubble 416 of FIG. 4A).
[0074]       Those skilled in the art will recognize that standoff RFID reader 440 is a simple example
of how a suitable multiple-read-range standoff reader can be configured and that many other
configurations are possible, not only with RFID technology but other standoff technologies, as well.
Consequently, it should be understood that exemplary standoff RFID reader 440 has been provided
to simply illustrate the broad concepts attendant multiple-read-range standoff readers of the present
invention and that this simple example should not be considered limiting the scope of the invention.
[0075]       As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate, any of the foregoing bracelet-based
designs and/or portions thereof can be embodied in a non-bracelet-based sanitization-protocol-target
identification device using knowledge common in the art. Examples of non-bracelet-based
sanitization-protocol-target identification devices include, but are not limited to, adhesive tags, hang
tags, surgically embedded tags, badges, and other configuration wherein the linked tags are
supported by a suitable support structure that can be associated in close proximity to the sanitization
protocol target. In addition, it is noted that the feature of multiple transponders or signaling devices
and the ranging features described above can similarly be extended to other technologies, such as
acoustic, optical, etc., mentioned above.
                                                     33

Node Devices and Monitored Worker Identification
[0076]       Each node device in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system of the present
disclosure, such as node device 130 of system 100 of FIG. 1, can be configured to provide a variety
of functionalities, many of which are described above in the Overview section. These functionalities
on node device 130 can include, but are not limited to, 1) opening and closing monitoring sessions in
response to interaction with sanitization verification stations, 2) recording various information
during monitoring sessions relating to sanitization statuses and encounters with monitored
sanitation-protocol targets (e.g., MPs), 3) providing indications of sanitization protocol adherence
status of the MW carrying the node device, 4) interacting with sanitization verification stations,
including receiving information therefrom and uploading information thereto, 5) recognizing
sanitization-protocol-target identification devices and making decisions concerning the existence of
MW/MP encounters, and 6) recognizing sanitization verification station identification devices and
MW identification devices. Each of these functionalities is described in detail below.
[0077]       A node device of the present disclosure is a mobile device that can be a dedicated device
that is specially made of a particular sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system of the
present disclosure, or it can be a conventional mobile device that can be adapted to provide the
requisite functionality. An example of such a conventional device is a smartphone, and those skilled
in the art will readily recognize that most, or even all, of the functionalities described herein for a
node device can be implemented in even today's smartphones using appropriate software, which can
be provided in the form of a mobile-device software application. While conventional devices can be
used, the following descriptions focus on dedicated devices. However, those skilled in the art will
readily recognize how to program a conventional device so that it provides the requisite functionality
for implementation in a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system of the present
disclosure.
[0078]       In one example, node device is a generic device, meaning that a worker can use any one
of a plurality of like generic node devices, and that device will provide the requisite functionality. It
will be appreciated that in other examples node devices can be permanently assigned corresponding
respective workers and can be uniquely programmed accordingly, for example, to contain worker
specific information. However, this disclosure will use the generic configuration as a primary
example.
                                                    34

[0079]       FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary node device 500 that can be used, for example, as node
device 130 of FIG. 1 and any one of node devices 604(1) to 604(5) of FIG. 6, described below. In
this example, node device 500 is described in the context of a sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system in which each MW has an RFID tag encoded with a unique worker
identifier, each sanitization verification station has an RFID tag encoded with a unique station
identifier, and each monitored sanitization protocol target (e.g., MP) has an RFID tag encoded with a
unique target identifier. Consequently, node device 500 includes an RFID reader 504 that is capable
of reading the unique identifiers encoded into the various RFID tags just mentioned. In some
embodiments, RFID reader 504 is designed and configured to limit its read-range bubble 508 to one
or more predetermined sizes, such as in the manner described above in connection with FIG. 4, that
are particularly suited to the deployment of the corresponding sanitization protocol monitoring/
compliance system of which node device 500 is a part. As discussed above, the size(s) of read-range
bubble 508 is directly correlated to the size of the MW/MP encounter region. Limiting the size of
read-range bubble 508 also minimizes the number of RFID devices that node device 500 must
interact with at any given time. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate, in alternative
embodiments RFID reader 504 may be replaced with one or more other types of readers, depending
on the technology used to store the various unique identifiers.
[0080]       In this example, node device 500 also includes a communications system 512, a central
processing system 516, a user interface system 520, and a power source 524, which would typically
be rechargeable, such as a rechargeable vibrating battery that can provide not only power for the
node device, but also any vibratory annunciation functionality provided to the node device.
Communications system 512 can be, for example, an RF or other type of wireless system for
communicating information onboard node device 500 to any sanitization verification station (not
shown) of the present invention that uses compatible communications technology, such as any of
sanitization verification stations 106(1) to 106(N) of FIG. 1 and/or information from any such
sanitization verification station to the node device. For example, communications system 512 can
include at least one of a WI-FITM device, a short- or very-short-range RF device, such as a
BLUETOOTH@ device, an ANTTM device, or the like. Other embodiments may include longer
range RF devices, if desired, and may also, or alternatively include one or more wired ports for
supporting any of various wired-communications protocols. As described above in the Overview
section above, information transmitted/received by communications system 512 can include, but not
be limited to, sanitization verification pass (e.g., monitoring-session authorization) and fail signals,
                                                     35

sanitization test data, sanitization verification station identification information, equipment status,
time synchronization, and information collected by node device during one or more monitoring
sessions.
[00811       In this example, communications system 512 is in communication with central
processing system 516 via a bus 516A, and the central processing system controls the overall
operation of node device 500, including the operation of the communications system. It is noted that
communications system 512 could be a wired system, but operation, such as continual docking or
other structural connecting with a sanitization verification station, would likely be fairly
cumbersome to users and cause mechanical wear on the docking/connecting parts. Therefore,
wireless communications is typically preferred.
[0082]       As is well known in the art, central processing system 516 may include one or more
microprocessors or other digital processing devices (not shown), memory 528, and one or more
communications buses, such as bus 516A, or other input/output means, among other components.
As will be readily appreciated, central processing system 516 is designed, configured, and
programmed to provide at least the functionality of node device 500 described herein. Memory 528
is represented generically in FIG. 5 any it can contain any type of memory used in digital processing
systems, including, but not limited to, volatile (e.g., RAM, cache, etc.) and non-volatile memory
(solid state storage memory, optical memory, magnetic memory, etc.), and any combination thereof.
[00831       User interface system 520 can include any means suitable for conveying information to a
person, such as an MW, wearing, carrying, or otherwise proximate to node device 500 and/or for
allowing a user to interact with the node device, such as to program it with desired settings and to
control the various functionality it provides. Such information can include, but not be limited to,
verification/effectiveness testing status and/or results, general status information from a sanitation
verification station, node device functionality controls and configuration information, and MW
sanitation status, among other things. To convey such information, user interface 520 may include
an electronic display 532, e.g., a flat-panel video display or other type of display and/or one or more
indicators 536, such as aural indicators that emit beep(s) and/or other tone(s), spoken statements, and
visual indicators that emit light, and any suitable combination of such indicators, and one or more
controls 538, for example, buttons, switches, knobs, or other controls for the MW to provide inputs,
such as volume adjustments, alert cancellations, and the like. Those skilled in the art will readily
                                                     36

appreciate the variety of means that are available for implementing in user interface 520 to provide
the desired functionality of information conveying and/or receiving user input.
[0084]       Power source 524 can include one or more batteries (not shown) or other source of
electrical power, such as a fuel cell, for powering the various components of node device 500 during
use, such as RFID reader 504, communications system 512, central processing system 516, and user
interface system 520. Power source 524 can also include a charger (not shown) if the battery(ies)
is/are of the rechargeable sort or a fuel supply if the power source requires fuel, such as in the case of
a fuel cell. Those skilled in the art will understand how to implement any suitable electrical power
source as power source 524.
[0085]       Functionalities of node device 500 and various ones of its components are controlled by
suitable software instructions 540 (e.g., in firmware and/or other form(s)) stored in memory 528 and
executable by central processing system 516. Central processing system 516 executes software
instructions 540 that control all of the automated functionality of node device 500 as well as control
the overall functioning of the node device and its components. Those skilled in the art will readily
be able to create software instructions 540 with routine programming knowledge once provided with
a particular set of components and a particular set of functionalities, such as the functionalities
described above and below.
[0086]       A primary function of node device 500 is to collect a variety of information, including,
but not limited to, 1) sanitization statuses of the MW carrying the node device, including time
stamps, 2) MW/MP encounters the MW has with MPs during monitoring sessions, including MP
identifiers and time stamps; 3) contacts the MW has with sanitization verification stations, including
station identifiers and time stamps, 4) contacts the MW may have with MPs outside of a monitoring
session, including MP identifiers and time stamps, 5) contacts the MW may have with other MWs,
and 6) warnings and notifications given by the node device to the MW carrying the node, including
types and time stamps. As described herein, a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system
of the present disclosure can use this infonnation to generate any of a variety of reports for assisting
the facility or enterprise in monitoring protocol compliance, enforcing protocol, and/or educating
MWs about protocol adherence, among other things.
[00871       Node device 500 can be designed and configured to store the foregoing and other
information in a suitable database or other data store 544 contained in memory 528. As mentioned
above, the information stored in data store 544 can be collected and stored therein for an entire shift
                                                    37

until uploaded en mass, such as by a charging station. If done this way, once uploading is
confirmed, node device 500 can be programmed to purge the data store. Alternatively, and as
described below, some or all of the information stored in data store 544 can be uploaded and purged
in a piecemeal fashion, such as in conjunction with sanitization verification events that occur at one
or more sanitization verification stations before and after MW/MP encounters. This periodic
uploading of data stored on node device 500 can be desirable since, from an overall system
perspective, it gives the system nearly real-time performance.
[0088]       Referring to FIG. 6, this figure shows a generic node device system 600 that includes a
plurality of node devices, here five generic mobile node devices 604(1) to 604(5) and a charging
station 608, which charges the node device when not in use. In addition to charging node devices
604(1) to 604(5), charging station 608 may be designed and configured to provide communications
functionality the same as or similar to the communications functionality of a sanitization verification
station, such as sanitization verification station 204 of FIG. 2, to allow the charging station to collect
any monitoring session or other pertinent data stored in any of node devices 604(1) to 604(5) and
that has not vet been uploaded to the central data processing system.
[00891       System 600 can be used as follows. When a worker starts a shift, she/he may take one of
node devices 604(1) to 604(5) from charging station 608. In this example, each node device 604(1)
to 604(5) has functionality described above relative to node device 500 of FIG. 5. System 600 of
FIG. 6 can be set up so that when each node device 604(1) to 604(5) is docked with charging station
600 the node device is powered down or put into a special charging state. Then, when a worker 612
removes any of node devices 604(1) to 604(5) from charging station 608, such as node device
604(3), system 600 can be configured to turn on that node device or otherwise initiate a routine that
sets the node device to a use state. For example, when worker 612 removes node device 604(3) from
charging station 608, software 616 on the node device recognizes the removal, puts the node device
into a use state, and causes the node device to look for a unique worker identifier 620 assigned to the
worker by the institution or business utilizing the sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance
system. In this example, unique worker identifier 620 is encoded into an RFID tag 624 worn or
otherwise carried by worker 612. Upon finding the identifier, software 616 on node device 604(3)
may record identifier 620 and the date and time, and set the node device to a use mode in which the
node device is ready to provide its monitoring and other functionalities.
                                                    38

[0090]        Typically, charging station 600 is located in a space where MW/MP encounters do not
take place, such that as part of setting node device 604(3) to the use mode, software 616 may set an
appropriate sanitization state indicator to "neutral" or similar state, indicating that the now
monitored worker has been recognized as being associated with the node device, but the sanitization
state is neither "sanitized" nor "unsanitized", "authorized" nor "suspect", or any other states used in
a particular deployment.
[0091]        While in this example unique worker identifier 620 is encoded into RFID tag 624, in
other embodiments the unique worker identifier can be encoded into another type of device, for
example, an optical code, such as a bar code or QR code, among others. Alternatively to using
encoded worker identifiers and identification devices, a generic node device and/or a charging
station or other station can be configured to identify the worker in another manner, such as by
fingerprint-scanning, photo-recognition of a face, hands, body, or other bio-identification technique.
Once the worker is identified, a corresponding identifier can be stored in the node device for the
duration of a user's workday, until the MW and node device are separated, etc.
Sanitization Compliance Data Processing System
[00921        Referring to FIG. 7, in an exemplary deployment, the sanitization compliance data
processing system 700 (see also system 108 of FIG. 1) is implemented on one or more servers, such
as server 704, that will typically be under control of the corresponding health care facility of the
deployment, or a parent organization of the health care facility, or an outside service with which the
health care facility or its parent contracts with to provide the deployment and its related services,
among others. Whichever way sanitization compliance data processing system 700 is configured
and instantiated, in this example each sanitization verification system 708(1) to 708(A) is in
communication with the sanitization compliance data processing system 700 via a communications
connection, here represented as a cloud 712 to cover all communications connections that may be
utilized, including wired and wireless communications. The "initial" connection 716 of verification
stations 708(1) to 708(A) can be either a wired communications connection (e.g., an Ethernet
connection, among others) or a wireless communications connection (e.g., a WI-FI@ connection,
among others), depending on the communications resources available at a particular location.
Similar, each communications enabled charging station, here charging stations 720(1) to 720(B)
(each of which has the functionality of charging station 608 of FIG. 6) has either a wired or wireless
communication initial connection 716 to sanitization compliance data processing system 700,
depending on the communications resources available at a particular location. Communications
                                                     39

connections 712 and 716 allow information to be communicated between sanitization verification
systems 708(1) to 708(A) and sanitization compliance data processing system 700 and information
to be communicated between charging stations 720(1) to 720(B) and the sanitization compliance
data processing system. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate, wired and wireless
communications connections suitable for use with the current deployment example are well known
in the art, such that further details regarding them is not necessary for skilled artisans to understand
and practice the present invention to its fullest scope.
[0093]        As noted above, sanitization compliance data processing system 700 can provide a
myriad of functionalities. For example, system 700 can be designed and configured to collect, in
real or near-real time, maintain, archive, and safeguard information received from the patient
registration system (not shown), sanitization verification stations 708(1) to 708(A), and charging
stations 720(1) to 720(B). Such information can including, but not limited to, 1) sanitization
verification testing data and 2) information concerning interactions between node devices (not
shown) and MPs (not shown) and between node devices and MWs and between node devices and
verification stations and charging stations, as provided by and/or relayed through verification
stations and charging stations. System 700 can also be designed and configured to perform
association of the collected data to, for example, correct time synchronization errors between various
pieces of data collected and to attribute collected data to specific persons (MWs and/or MPs) and/or
node devices and/or regions within the health care facility, etc. System 700 can further be designed
and configured 1) to allow users to configure, manipulate, generate, etc., reports and/or alarms using
such recorded information, 2) to make decisions on sanitization compliance, for example, by
comparing verification test results with thresholds, record such decisions, 3) to communicate such
decisions to node devices via verification stations, and/or 4) to manage the various components of
the system and the various communications links among the components, among other things.
[0094]        Any functionalities that sanitization compliance data processing system 700 provides
can be effected by suitable software, which is shown generally by software 724 running on
server 704. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that while software 724 is represented by
a single box in FIG. 7, it may take any of a variety of forms. For example, software 724 may be
implemented as a single set of machine-executable code, or it may be implemented as multiple code
segments, or modules, that can be independently compiled as separate software applications that
communicate with one another as appropriate. Those of ordinary skill in the software arts will
readily understand how to implement any of the desired functionalities given a particular
                                                    40

hardware/software architecture for implementing the deployment at issue. Because the variety of
available architectures is vast and knowledge about how to program effectively in each of those
architectures is well known, detailed explanations are not required for skilled artisans to implement
the various aspects of software 724 in any known architecture.
[0095]       Software 724 can be provided to and/or stored in server 704 as machine-executable
instructions using any suitable machine-readable medium/media. In the context of this disclosure
and the appended claims, the terms "machine-readable medium" and "machine-readable media"
shall mean any type of device and devices designed and configured to store such software
instructions. These terms do not include signals, such as carrier signals encoded with information in
analog and/or digital format. It is noted, however, that software 724 can be provided to server using
signals, for example, by transferring the software over the Internet. Practically speaking, however,
even if transmitted by signals, at some point software 724 will be stored in machine-readable media,
regardless of whether that media is deemed volatile or non-volatile, transitory or non-transitory, or
not.
[00961       To store any of the information noted above and/or other information, sanitization
compliance data processing system 700 includes a data store 728, which may be implemented in one
or more memories (collectively represented by a single box 732), which can include any sort of
memory designed and configured to provide such data storage. Software 724 can include any sort of
machine-executable instructions for writing to data store 728 and reading from, manipulating,
searching, etc. the information stored in the data store. As those skilled in the art will readily
appreciate, the information stored in data store 728 can be manipulated using any suitable database
management system, such as a relational database management system, among others.
[0097]       Software 724 may also include one or more user interface (UI) applications or
modules 736 that provide one or more Uls (not shown) to users via various sorts of computing
devices, such as desktop computers 740(1) to 740(C), laptop/tablet computers/devices 744(1)
to 744(D), and smartphones 748(1) to 748(E), among others. Such Uls can be, for example,
application-based (e.g., run as a distinct application or module on the corresponding device) or can
be browser-based (e.g., be presented to a user in a web browser running of the corresponding device.
Those skilled in the art will readily understand the variety of ways to implement Uls depending on
the type of device and the desired configuration and architecture of sanitization compliance data
                                                    41

processing system 700. Software 724 can also be provided with suitable access protection to
prevent/inhibit unauthorized access to information stored in data store 728.
DETAILED EXAMPLE OF OPERATION OF AN EXEMPLARY DEPLOYMENT
[00981       Following is a detailed example of an exemplary deployment of a sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system of the present disclosure. In this example, the setting for the
deployment is a hospital in which the monitored spaces include patient rooms that each include a
sanitization verification system embodied in a unitary verification station. Each verification station
has an RFID tag that uniquely identifies that station and also has a hand detection sensor/system and
an alcohol sensing system used to test for the presence of alcohol on hands presented to the
verification station after they have been sanitized with an alcohol-based sanitizer. Each verification
station also has a WI-FITM module for wirelessly communicating with node devices and an RFID
reader for reading its own RFID tag and RFID tags worn by hospital workers to uniquely identify
them, especially MWs that each carry a generic node device made in accordance with the present
invention. In addition, each verification station has a wired Ethernet connection to a sanitization
compliance data processing system. Of course, and as described above, the connections between the
verification stations and the sanitization compliance data processing system can be wireless in other
embodiments.
[0099]       Each node device in this example is a generic device designed to interact with
verification stations in the deployment via a WI-FITM module. Each node device's WI-FITM module
is also capable of communicating with a charging station that contains a compatible WI-FITM
module. Each generic node also has an RFID reader for reading hospital worker RFID tags and
RFID tags on patient-identification bracelets that the hospital issues to patients as part of the
admissions process to uniquely identify each patient. In this example, the RFID reader on each node
has three read-power levels and, therefore, three read-range bubble sizes, and each identification
bracelet has three linked RFID tags in the manner described above in connection with FIGS. 3B to
3D. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the various components of this exemplary
deployment, such as the node devices, RFID tags, sanitization verification stations, patient
identification bracelets, charging station, RFID reader, etc., and their subcomponents, may be the
same as or similar to the like components depicted in FIGS. 1 to 6 and described in conjunction
therewith above. However, for ease of readability, the following description avoids using element
identifiers used above and in the drawings for these components and subcomponents. Those skilled
in the art will readily be able to deduce the appropriate element identifiers and, therefore, be able to
                                                   42

use the corresponding figures as references, if needed. With the foregoing configuration of the
deployed sanitization protocol monitoring/ compliance system, typical sequences of event are as
follows.
Monitored Patients
[00100]      A person enters the hospital to become an inpatient, and the hospital admits that person.
As part of the admissions process, the hospital provides the person (hereinafter "MP" for "monitored
patient") with an identification bracelet containing various information that is encrypted to inhibit
unauthorized data collection and use. As mentioned, the bracelet contains three linked RFID tags
that can be encoded as follows. In this example, the three RFID tags on the issued bracelet have the
following corresponding respective serial numbers: 12345678, 12345679, and 12345680, and the
linking code 678ABCDEFG is written to each, such that the tags are encoded, respectively,
 12345678-678ABCDEFG, 12345679-678ABCDEFG, and 12345680-678ABCDEFG. Here, the
sequence "678" is the linking code, and the "ABCDEFG" is institutional specific data written to the
tags. The linking sequencing code links and identifies individual tags on the bracelet. At the time of
admission and bracelet activation, the hospital also creates a file in the sanitization compliance data
processing system that is associated with the bracelet serial numbers and linking code. As described
below, by each bracelet containing a plurality of RFID tags, accuracy or reliability in establishing a
relationship with node devices is increased.
[00101]      The linking and sequencing code allows a node device to identify any one of the
differing RFID tags on a single bracelet. This tag-linking scheme allows node firmware to cause
actions to occur in the node device because one, two, or more linked tags are being read. As
mentioned above, one action in particular is to change the tag read-range bubble size when multiple
linked tags are being read. When the node device establishes an association (e.g., X reads of at least
one RFID tag in Y time) with an identification bracelet, it begins looking for linking identifications.
Upon reading two linked RFID tags (X reads in Y time) of the identification bracelet, the node
device reduces the size of its read-range bubble by reducing the power of the read signal of its RFID
reader to shrink the monitored region, or MW/MP encounter region, around the monitored person.
Reading three linked RFID tags on the bracelet shrinks the node device's read-range bubble further
by further reducing the strength of the read signal of the node device's RFID reader. Upon dropping
contact with a linked RFID tag, the node device expands the read-range bubble to its next larger size
by increasing the strength of the read signal of its RFID reader. Read-range bubble adjustments can
be used for other purposes, too. For example, it may be desirable to have a small read-range bubble
                                                   43

around an MW node device that is in the "neutral" state that expands when the node device is placed
into an "authorized" state. Then, the enlarged read-range bubble stays large until the node device
establishes contact with multiple linked REID tags on a single identification bracelet, at which time
the node device shrinks the read-range bubble as just described.
Monitored Workers
[00102]      Every MW has a data file maintained by the sanitization compliance data processing
system. Generally, the data in these files is accessible only by individuals having appropriate
security clearance. Typically, when an MW begins employment with the hospital, the hospital
issues the MW a permanent worker-badge that includes an RFID tag containing unique identification
and other data concerning the MW, such as a personal identification string, an institution
identification string, a job type (e.g., doctor, nurse, aide, etc.), an assigned ward or other workspace,
among other things. The sanitization compliance data processing system can use these data
categories for sorting, among other things. Some or all of this data is typically encrypted to prevent
unauthorized reading.
Generic Node Device Initiation
[00103]      To effect sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance, the hospital requires that all
workers that interact with patients and/or items in a patient's immediate surroundings, such as
medical equipment and devices, carry a node device of the present invention. As mentioned, in this
example the node devices are generic, i.e., they are not assigned to any particular worker. As such,
the overall use of a node device may proceed as follows. However, it is noted that in other
embodiments node devices may be permanently assigned to corresponding workers. Those skilled
in the art will readily understand the changes that can, and/or need to, be changed to implement
permanently assigned devices.
[001041      At the beginning of her/his workday, an MW removes a generic node device from its
charging station. The node device and/or charging station are configured so that the node device is
automatically activated by the removal from the station. The node device maintains a running log of
data and of its internal state changes. Firmware on the node device is designed and configured to
instruct the node device as to what data is to be maintained and what data is to be discarded,
depending on a variety of factors, including the state of the node and what the node is reading.
Generally, this deployment utilizes two types of files. However, these file types are more a function
                                                     44

of data matching at the sanitization compliance data processing system than they are a function of
node operation.
[001051       As part of the activation, firmware on the node device instructs the node device to create
an initiation file, which, once uploaded to the sanitization compliance data processing system, the
sanitization compliance data processing system will recognize as the start of a monitoring period. At
activation, the node device seeks to read the MW's RFID tag and stores information retrieved from
that RFID tag upon a successfully reading. In response to a successful reading of the MW's RFID
tag, the node device writes the data from the MW's tag, date, and time, to the initiation file. An
initiation file is the first file of a monitoring period, for example, the worker's work day. It is noted
that a monitoring period is different from a monitoring session, which is described above and below
in detail. Only one initiation file per monitoring period is allowed by the node device's firmware.
For a different or new MW association, the node device must be returned to the charging station and
docked thereto, where any remaining files are downloaded and sent to the sanitization compliance
data processing system and the node memory is cleared.
[00106]       The node device's firmware ensures that the node device will maintain the association
with the particular MW throughout a monitoring period. If contact is lost, the node device searches
to reestablish this same relationship. If, after a predetermined period of time, contact is not
reestablished, the node device issues a "no association" alarm and records the time when the loss
was confirmed. If an initial association is not achieved in the prescribed period of time, the "no
association" alann is likewise activated and the event is recorded in a log file on the node device.
Throughout a monitoring period, the node device's finnware uses the MW's RFID tag data to
designate all files saved as data. It is noted that in this example, the node device has three primary
action-causing states, "neutral," "suspect," and "authorized" and a quasi-state "suspect pending".
State changes are written to the node device's internal data storage, and the events that follow for a
prescribed time period (or until a prescribed event occurs) are likewise written to the onboard
storage. When the node device's firmware recognizes the completion of a successful initiation
association, it enters the "neutral" state. It is noted that while the node device's RFID reader is
constantly searching for and reading RFID tag information, the device's finnware instructs the
device to save or discard certain read data in accordance with predefined criteria, which is outside
the scope of the present disclosure and is not needed for those skilled in the art to make and
implement a sanitization protocol monitoring/compliance system or the present disclosure, or any
part thereof.
                                                       45

[00107]      Once the MW's node device has successfully associated with the MW and has switched
to the neutral state, the node device is ready for use throughout the MW's workday, including
establishing and recording data during monitoring sessions (described below) for MW/MP
encounters in designated health care areas. At the end of the workday, the MW returns the node
device to the charging station, where any non-uploaded collected-data files remaining on the device
are uploaded to the sanitization compliance data processing system, along with the date and time of
the docking and closing of the monitoring period.
Monitoring Sessions
[001081      When the node device has been initiated and is in a monitored period, it is ready for use.
FIG. 8 illustrates a method 800 of establishing a monitoring session within a monitored space in
which health care workers are to follow the WHO hand-sanitization protocols mentioned above. As
a reminder, under those protocols, health care workers, and especially MWs, are supposed to sanitize
their hands just prior to an MW/MP encounter and just after such an encounter in that space. In this
example, the monitored space is a patient room, and a single sanitization verification station is
located in the room. While it should be apparent from the operation of the sanitization protocol
monitoring/compliance system described herein, it is noted that it is not the overall space of the
health care area that is monitored, but rather it is the MWs that are monitored by their various
interactions with the sanitization verification station and the one or more MPs and/or MWs in the
space.
[001091      At step 801 the MW approaches the sanitization verification station in the monitored
space at issue where the MW is planning an MW/MP encounter. According to the sanitization
protocol, at step 803 the MW sanitizes her/his hands, here with an alcohol-based sanitizer as
mentioned above. Typically, the sanitizer dispenser is located proximate to or integrated into the
sanitization verification station, such that the MW's RFID tag is within read-range of the RFID
reader aboard the sanitization verification station. Consequently, at step 805 the sanitization
verification station detects the MW's RFID tag. At step 807, the sanitization verification station
enables its own RFID tag and WI-FITM module for communicating with the MW's node device. At
step 809, the RFID reader aboard MW's node device detects the RFID tag of the sanitization
verification station. The MW's node device then disables its own RFID reader and enables its WI
FITM  module at step 811, and at step 813, the sanitization verification station and node device
establish a mutual ad hoc WI-FITM connection. At step 815, in response to establishing the WI-FITM
connection, the verification station establishes that the MW is indeed carrying a node and records a
                                                     46

"node carried" indicator to its data store, along with a date, time, and verification station
identification data.
[001101       At or around the same time steps 805 to 815 are being performed, at step 817 the MW
presents her/his hands to the testing region of the sanitization verification station, which triggers the
verification station to perform at step 819 a test that senses alcohol present on/evaporating from the
MW's hands. As described above in connection with exemplary sanitization verification station 204
of FIG. 2, the triggering of the alcohol testing can be achieved with a suitable hand-presence sensor
and the testing can be performed with one or more suitable alcohol sensors. When testing is
complete, also at step 819 the alcohol testing system issues a "test complete" signal, and at step 821
the sanitization verification station sends an authorization signal to the MW's node device via the
WI-FITM connection. As mentioned above, the authorization signal does not need to be based on the
achievement of any particular results from the alcohol testing. Rather, the signal can be based
simply on the fact that the test was performed. Results can be matched up and dealt with later on in
the sanitization compliance data processing system as desired.
[00111]       At optional step 823, the node device acknowledges receipt of the authorization signal
and places the node device into the authorized state. At step 825, the sanitization verification station
provides an indication to the MW that she/he is authorized to proceed to initiate an MW/MP
encounter based on a hand-sanitization event having been performed. This authorization also
effectively starts a monitoring session within the node device. Again, in this embodiment positive
test results are assumed for this authorization process. In other embodiments, authorization can be
based on actual positive results, i.e., results that are determined in real time based on a comparison
of sensor readings with a preset threshold value. The indication at step 825 can be aural or visual,
such as a display of "OK TO PROCEED" on a flat panel display. At step 827, the MW departs from
the sanitization verification station and proceeds to subject patient for an MW/MP encounter.
[00112]       While the MW is still proximate to the sanitization verification station or even after the
MW has moved away from the verification station, as long as the WI-FITM connection between the
MWs node device and the verification station is maintained, additional steps can occur. For
example, at step 829 the node device and the sanitization verification station can determine whether
or not there are any stored data on the node device that has not yet been uploaded to the sanitization
compliance data processing system. If there is data present on the node device that has not yet been
uploaded, at step 831 the node device uploads the stored data records to the sanitization verification
                                                      47

station via the WI-FITM connection. After the data uploading is complete, or if there was not any
data aboard the node device to be uploaded, at step 833 the node device may disable its WI-FITM
module to reduce the power usage of the node device.
[00113]       After the sanitization verification station has provided an indication for the MW to
proceed at step 825, if the verification station is configured such that the alcohol test results are not
used for the node authorization process, then at step 835 the alcohol testing system can provide the
test results to the sanitization compliance data processing system of the verification system, which
may store the results in memory, along with a date and time stamp and MW and verification station
identification data to form a sanitization event record. At step 837, the sanitization verification
station uploads the sanitization event record to the sanitization compliance data processing system
via its Ethernet connection to the sanitization compliance data processing system. It is noted that at
step 839 the sanitization verification station continually assesses whether the WI-FITM connection
with the node device is lost. If the WI-FITM connection is lost, then at step 841 the sanitization
verification station disables its WI-FITM module.
MW/MP encounters
[00114]       At step 827 of method 800 of FIG. 8, the MW departed from the sanitization
authorization station with her/his node device being authorized for a monitoring session. This step is
also reflected in method 900 of FIG. 9 at step 901 at which the node device is authorized by the
sanitization verification station to begin a monitoring session in the manner just describes relative to
FIG. 8. Based on this authorization, at step 903 the node device 1) provides an indicator, such as a
green indicator light, 2) increases the read-range bubble of its RFID reader by increasing the strength
of its read signal, and 3) starts an initial-contact timer that provides a predetermined amount of time
in which the MW must make initial contact with an MP or else the node device will change from an
authorized state to a neutral state where the MW is not authorized to have an MW/MP encounter
without re-sanitizing.
[00115]       At step 905, the node device searches for contact with an MP by the node device's RFID
reader continually polling for the presence of a patient's RFID tag. At step 907, the node device
determines whether or not the RFID reader has established contact with a patient RFID tag. If the
RFID reader has not established contact with a patient RFID tag, then the node device enters a loop
909 that includes checking, at step 911, whether or not the initial-contact timer has timed out or not.
If the initial-contact timer has not timed out, then method 900 returns to step 905. However, if the
                                                      48

node device determines at step 911 that the initial-contact timer has timed out, then at step 913 the
node device changes its state to "suspect" and may provide one or more notifications (e.g., visual,
tactile, audible, and any combination thereof) of the state change to the MW. When the state
changes, the MW should be trained to know that she/he must re-sanitize and return to the, or any,
sanitization verification station for another authorization, before the MW can again approach a
patient for an MW/MP encounter. In addition, this state transition may be recorded, for example, in
the node device and become part of the file uploaded to the sanitization compliance data processing
system.
[001161      If at step 907 the node device determines that an initial contact with an MP's RFID tag
has occurred, at step 915 the node device continues polling via its RFID reader to establish that firm
contact with that RFID tag has occurred. In the context of the patient's bracelet including three
linked tags, step 915 can include making contact with and identifying the linked tags and
successively changing the size of the node device's read-range bubble, as described above. At step
917, the node device determines whether or not its RFID reader has made contact with all three
linked RFID tags of a particular MP's identification bracelet. If so, method 900 proceeds to step 919
at which the node device assumes/infers that the MW has initiated an MW/MP encounter and,
therefore, stops the initial-contact timer. Also at step 919, the node device changes its state to
"suspect pending," which is an interim state prior to the "suspect" state that is delayed by a lost
contact clock, as described below. The "suspect pending" state allows the node device's indicators
to display an indication that a valid MW/MP encounter is in process. However, it also prevents the
MW from visiting another MP that may be proximate to the MP of the initial MW/MP encounter
while in an authorized state. With an MW/MP encounter identified, the node device enters a loop
921 at which the node device determines at step 923 whether or not its RFID reader, now in the
lowest-power, smallest read-range bubble state, has lost contact with the MP's identification
bracelet. If not, loop 921 continues, as the MW/MP encounter is presumed to continue.
[00117]      However, if at step 923 the node device determines that previously established contact
with the MP's identification bracelet has been lost, method 900 proceeds to step 925 at which the
node device starts a lost-contact timer. This timer allows contact between the node device and the
subject MP's identification bracelet to be lost for relatively short periods of time without requiring
the MW to re-sanitize. In essence, as long as the lost-contact timer has not timed out, the current
MW/MP encounter is presumed to be continuing. Consequently, at step 927 the node device
determines whether or not the lost-contact timer has timed out. If not, at step 929 the node device
                                                    49

determines whether or not contact between its RFID reader and the subject MP's identification
bracelet has been restored. However, if the node device determines that the lost-contact timer has
timed out, then at step 931 the node device changes its state to "suspect" and may provide one or
more notifications (e.g., visual, tactile, audible, and any combination thereof) of the state change to
the MW.
[00118]       Returning to step 929, if the node device determines that contact between its RFID
reader and the subject MP's identification bracelet has been restored, at step 933 the node device
resets the temporary leave timer and returns to step 923 of continually monitoring the state of contact
between the RFID reader and the identification bracelet. However, if contact with the subject MP's
identification bracelet has not been restored at step 929, method 900 proceeds to step 935 wherein
the node device determines whether or not its RFID reader has established contact with the
identification bracelet of a different MP, i.e., an MP other than the one for which full contact was
established at step 917. If the node device determines that such other contact has occurred, then at
step 937 the node device changes its state to "suspect" and may provide one or more notifications
(e.g., visual, tactile, audible, and any combination thereof) of the state change to the MW.
[00119]       If at step 935 the node device determines that its REID reader has not established contact
with another MP's identification device, then method 900 continues to step 939 at which the node
device determines whether or not the MW has performed an exit sanitizing and sanitization
verification at the initial sanitization verification station or any other sanitization verification station
that may be present within a distance the MW can traverse before the lost-contact timer times out. If
the node device determines at step 939 that MW has performed a post-MW/MP-encounter sanitizing
and the sanitizing has been verified, then at step 941 the node device stops the lost-contact timer and
changes its state to "authorized" again. The detection of the performance and verification of a
sanitizing event performed by the MW can be effected by a sanitization-verification signal received
by the node device from a sanitization verification station. Such signal can be the same as the
authorization signal from step 821 of method 800 of FIG. 8, and it can be obtained in the manner
described in method 800. As described in connection with step 903 of method 900 of FIG. 9, the
receiving by the node device of authorization based on the performance of a hand sanitization starts
and initial-contact timer. Assuming that the verification station in this example is in a patient room,
if the MW chooses to leave the room, the initial-contact timer will typically time out because the
node device does not detect any patient identification devices. In response to the initial-contact
timer timing out, the node device places itself into the "neutral" state. Once the node device is back
                                                      50

in the "neutral" state, the MW can go about her/his duties, including implementing method 800 of
FIG. 8 for another MW/MP encounter. Referring back to FIG. 9, if at step 939 the node device does
not detect that an exit sanitizing has been verified, method 900 enters a loop 943 that continues until
one of the decision steps 927, 929, 935, and 939 has an affirmative answer.
[00120]       All of the preceding steps after decision step 917 answered in the affirmative deal with
the node device's determinations and actions if the node device establishes firm contact with the MP
identification bracelet initially encountered at step 907. However, if firm contact with that
identification bracelet is not made at step 917, then method 900 proceeds to step 945 at which the
node device determines whether or not its RFID reader still has contact with at least one of the
linked RFID tags on the bracelet. If so, method 900 proceeds back to step 915 of trying to establish
firm contact with the identification bracelet. However, if the node device determines at step 945 that
contact between its RFID reader and at least one of the RFID tags on the identification bracelet of
the initial contact of step 907 is lost, then method 900 loops back to loop 909.
Node Device States and Alarms
[00121]       As mentioned above, in the present example four states/quasi-states are used for the node
device. These states are "neutral," "authorized," "suspect," and "suspect pending." Following is an
additional explanation of these states and their function within the health care sanitization protocol
compliance/monitoring presented here in detail to illustrate aspects and features of the present
invention. As can be deduced from the foregoing descriptions of methods 800 and 900, the neutral
state will typically be the state that an MW's node device will be in much of the time. For example,
whenever a health care worker is not currently involved in a valid MW/MP encounter, has
performed an exit sanitization procedure following her/his most recent MW/MP encounter, and has
experienced the initial-contact timer timing out, the node device places itself into the neutral state.
The node device may display an indicator, for example, a yellow or other color light, etc., notifying
the MW and/or others of its neutral state. In the present embodiment, each node device records all
changes of state to neutral, along with a date/time stamp of when the state-change occurred.
[001221       The authorized state is described extensively above. However, to generalize, the
authorized state is the state that a node device puts itself into in response to receiving an
authorization signal from a sanitization verification station. In the present example, the authorized
state is accompanied by the starting and running of an initial-contact timer that gives the MW a
reasonable amount of time to enter into a valid MW/MP encounter, i.e., an MW/MP encounter in
                                                    51

which the assumption is that the MW has been properly sanitized. If the initial-contact timer times
out before firm contact is established with an MP identification device, as described above in
connection with step 913 of method 900 of FIG. 9 the node device changes its state to the neutral
state.
[00123]      However, if the MW's node device establishes firm contact with an MP identification
device before the initial-contact timer times-out, then the node device changes its state to suspect
pending. In one embodiment, the node device may display an indicator that it is in the suspect
pending state, which could otherwise be referred to as an "active MW/MP encounter state," a "valid
MW/MP encounter state," or the like. The suspect-pending state is a quasi-state of sorts that in this
example identifies that the MW is in an active, or valid, MW/MVIP encounter with a particular MP.
The suspect-pending state works as a signal to the node device that if one of several events occur
while the node device is in the suspect-pending state, then it should change to a suspect state. The
suspect state is a state in which the node device issues an alarm to the MW to indicate that the MW
is assumed to be violating the sanitization protocol being implemented by the sanitization protocol
compliance/monitoring system and is no longer in a valid MW/MP encounter. The alarm may
include the display of one or more haptic, visual, and audible indicators, such as a vibration, flashing
light(s), audible alerts, or any combination of these,.
[00124]      As an example of the node device changing from the suspect-pending state to the suspect
state, while in the suspect-pending state, when the node device has detected that the MW has moved
outside the range of the MP identification device that caused the suspect-pending status, it starts the
temporary leave timer (see step 925 of method 900 of FIG. 9). If the temporary leave timer times
out before the MW gets back into range of the original MP identification device or before the MW
performs an "exit" sanitization at a sanitization verification station, then the node device changes its
state from suspect-pending to suspect and issues an alarm indicating that the MW is no longer in a
valid MW/MP state and is, effectively, assumed to be in an unsanitary state that is not in adherence
with the sanitization protocol. As mentioned above, as an alarm the node device can display
whichever indicator(s) it has be programmed to display, such as vibration, flashing light(s), audible
warning, or any combination of these. At this point, the MW can act to cancel the alarm, for
example, using a button or other feature on the node device itself or by re-sanitizing at a sanitization
verification station. In this example, the node device is configured to record the state change, the
issuance of the alarm, the canceling of the alarm, and other relevant information.
                                                   52

[00125]      In another example of the node device changing from the suspect-pending state to the
suspect state, while in the suspect-pending state, in response to the node device detecting a second
MP identification device., i.e., an MP identification device that is different from the device that
caused the suspect-pending state (i.e., valid MW/MP encounter), the node device changes its status
from suspect pending to suspect and issues an alarm, which may include the display of any one or
more haptic, visual, and audible indicators. The MW can take an action, such as the pressing of a
button, to cancel the alarm or can re-sanitize at a sanitization verification station to effectively cancel
the alarn and change the node device's state from suspect to authorized, for example, as described
above.
[001261      An illustration of a situation in which a state change of suspect-pending to suspect may
occur is a case where a nurse (the MW) tending to "Patient 1" of two patients (Patient I and
Patient 2) in a double-occupancy hospital patient room. In this illustration, the MW has properly
followed the pre-MW/MP encounter sanitization protocol, and the relevant sanitization verification
station has issued authorization to the MW's node device. Consequently, the MW's node device has
opened a monitoring session by starting the initial-contact timer. The MW then proceeds to
Patient 1 in a timely manner, and the MW's node device establishes firm contact with Patient l's
(the MP) identification device. In response, the MW's node device changes its state from authorized
to suspect pending, for the reasons described above. In a multi-read-range-power implementation,
the MW's node device will typically be in the lowest-power mode so as to minimize the size of the
read-range bubble.
[00127]      In this illustration, while tending to Patient 1 and in a valid MW/MP encounter with
Patient 1, the second patient, i.e., "Patient 2," experiences a health emergency that requires the MW
to immediately tend to Patient 2. Consequently, the MW moves over to Patient 2 directly from
tending to Patient 1, i.e., without returning to the sanitization verification station to re-sanitize and
have her/his node device re-authorized. In making the switch from Patient I to Patient 2, the MW's
node device loses contact with Patient l's identification device and establishes firm contact with
Patient 2's identification device. However, this is a violation of the sanitization protocol being
implemented, because during a move from one patient to another without re-sanitizing it is assumed
that the move includes a transfer of infectious material from the first patient to the second patient.
Recognizing that firm contact with a Patient 2's identification device occurred in a valid MW/MP
encounter for another patient, i.e., Patient 1, the node device changes its state from suspect pending
to suspect and issues a suitable alarm. At this point, the MW can cancel the alarm. However, the
                                                     53

node device records information for all of these events, information that is later uploaded to the
central data processing system. It is noted that in this situation in which the health emergency of
Patient 2 was so critical, the lack of re-sanitizing may be acceptable, especially because the risk of
Patient 2 dying outweighed the risk that an infection was being transferred.
Data Collection and Reporting
[00128]       In this example, the sanitization compliance data processing system is designed and
configured to collect, save, archive, maintain, and manipulate a variety of information collected or
conveyed by various components of the overall deployment, such as the registration system,
sanitization verification stations, node devices, and charging stations. The data processing system is
also designed and configured to generate various reports that utilize the recorded information.
Following are some examples of such collected/recorded information and examples of reports that
the data processing system can generate. It should be appreciated that these examples are provided
for illustrative purposes and should by no means be interpreted as being exhaustive.
[00129]       Examples of data received from the registration system by the sanitization compliance
data processing system include an absolute RFID serial number on each patient's RFID enabled
bracelet, any encrypted information on that patient's bracelet, time/date of the assignment of an
RFID-enabled bracelet to a patient, an absolute RFID serial number on each RFID-enabled MW
badge, any encrypted information on that HW's badge, time/date of the assignment of an RFID
enabled badge to an MW. Examples of data received from the charging stations by the sanitization
compliance data processing system include identifier(s) of the node device(s) engaged with any of
the charging stations, start and end times and dates of connections of node devices to charging
stations, recorded data residing on the node devices when connected to a charging station after use,
and other information (e.g., fault indications) concerning the charging stations and/or node devices.
Examples of data received from sanitization verification stations by the sanitization compliance data
processing system include event information regarding MW sanitization events and associated
verification results, node device identifiers, data recorded by node devices and uploaded via the
verification stations, and other information (e.g., fault indications) concerning the verification
stations and/or node devices.
[00130]       In particular examples, and using the method 800 of FIG. 8 as a basis for these
examples: at step 805 the sanitization verification station may record information from the RFID tag
of the MW at the verification station into its memory; at step 807 the verification station may add its
                                                     54

location information to the recorded data; at step 815, the verification station may add an indication
to the recorded data that the verification station has verified the MW's node device; at step 817 the
verification station may add an indication to the recorded data that the MW presented their hands to
the verification station; at step 819 the verification station may add an indication to the data string
that the alcohol test has been completed; at step 821 the verification station may add a test identifier
to the recorded data to uniquely identify the test; at step 831 the verification station may add the
information uploaded from the MW's node device to the recorded data, along with an indication of
whether or not the upload was completed; and at step 835 the verification station may add test results
to the recorded data. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate, the data recorded by the
verification station can be uploaded to the sanitization compliance data processing system at any
suitable time and in any suitable segmentation. For example, all of the data can be uploaded at once
after the test results have been determined. As another example, the data can be uploaded
continually as the verification station generates the data. In yet a further example, the data can be
uploaded in segments, with one or a few pieces of the data being uploaded at a time. As those
skilled in the art will understand, the uploading can be accomplished using any suitable
communication protocol and according to any suitable scheme, such as a push or pull scheme. As
with other examples, all of the forgoing examples are intended to be illustrative and not exhaustive.
[00131]       In the foregoing, examples of sanitization verification event data include time/date
stamped records of the identification (via RFID tag) of each MW requesting a verification action,
results of each MW's verification of alcohol level(s), and administrative events, such as equipment
failure, fault, loss of connection, etc. Similarly, examples of event data collected by each node
device include a time/date-stamped records indicating association with the MW carrying that node
device, changes in the internal states of authorization/status, contact with patients' RFID bracelets
and contents of such bracelets, alarm events, warning events, MW actions (e.g., ignore,
acknowledge, etc.) in response to node events, and administrative events (e.g., battery low, fault, loss
of association, etc.).
[00132]       In particular examples, and using the method 900 of FIG. 9 as a basis for these
examples: at step 901 the node device may record into its onboard memory information regarding
the authorization from the sanitization verification station, such as the change of its state to
"authorized", along with a date/time stamp; at steps 917/919, the node device may record that
contact with an MP/MP identification device has been established, along with information from the
MP identification device and date/time data; at steps 923 and 829, the node device may record the
                                                     55

loss of contact with the MP, along with a date/time stamp, as well as the regaining of contact and the
date/time data; at step 933, the node device may record the contact-reestablished event, also along
with a date/time stamp. In addition, the node device may also be set up to record the timing out of
the temporary leave timer, as well as all state changes, here changes between various pairs of
"neutral," "authorized," "suspect," and "suspect pending," along with the appropriate date/time
stamps.
[00133]       Examples of reports and alarms that the sanitization verification data processing system
of the present embodiment is designed and configured to generate include summaries of MWs'
activities (e.g., sanitization events, success rates, warnings, etc.), summaries of area events in the
health care facility (e.g., a summary of MWs using a particular sanitization verification station and
the associated sanitization verification testing results), summaries of patient contacts with MWs and
corresponding authorization or other sanitization statuses, and administrative summaries (e.g., faults,
node device usage, verification station usage, etc.).
[00134]       Exemplary embodiments have been disclosed above and illustrated in the accompanying
drawings. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes, omissions and
additions may be made to that which is specifically disclosed herein without departing from the
spirit and scope of the present invention.
                                                      56

What is claimed is:
1. An identification device for identifying a patient in a medical setting, comprising:
     a plurality of tags, each of the tags being configured to produce a wireless identification signal
         in response to an interrogation signal, wherein the identification signal can be used to
         identify the patient; and
     a support structure designed and configured to locate the plurality of tags proximate the
         patient, wherein each of the plurality of tags are supported by the support structure;
     wherein:
           the interrogation signal is generated by a standoff reading device having a plurality of
               read-range powers and configured to change among the plurality of read range power
               levels based on the standoff reading device determining how many of the plurality of
               tags the standoff reading device identifies as being linked with one another; and
           each tag includes:
                 a tag identifier that is unique to the patient, the tag identifier generating the
                      identification signal in response to the interrogation signal, wherein the tag
                      identifiers on the plurality of tags are identical to one another; and
                 an appended linking identifier appended to the tag identifier, the appended linking
                      identifier of each tag differing from the appended linking identifier on each
                      other of the plurality of tags and being selected and configured in conjunction
                      with the standoff reading device to 1) allow the standoff reading device to link
                      all of the plurality of tags with one another to the exclusion of any other tags
                      within reading range of the standoff reading device and 2) allow the standoff
                      reading device to determine how many of the plurality of tags the standoff
                      reading device is recognizing during use so that the standoff reading device can
                      determine when to change among the plurality of read-range powers.
2. The identification device according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of tags comprises a
   radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag.
3. The identification device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the patient has an appendage,
   and the support structure comprises a band designed and configured to be secured around the
   appendage.
                                                     57

4. The identification device according to claim 3, wherein the patient is a human, the appendage is
    an arm or a leg, and the identification signal comprises information assigned by a health care
    facility.
5. The identification device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the appended
    linking identifier comprises a digitally encoded linking code.
6. The identification device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the appended
    linking identifier comprises a linking sequence, and the linking sequence differs among the
    plurality of tags in a manner known to the standoff reading device.
7. The identification device according to claim 3, wherein the support structure further includes a
    plurality of standoff supports, each of the standoff supports being designed and configured to
    locate one of the plurality of tags in spaced relation to the band when the identification device is
    properly engaged with the appendage, and each of the standoff supports comprises a body having
    first and second ends spaced from one another, wherein the body is spaced from the band at least
    between the first and second ends.
8. The identification device according to claim 7, wherein only the first end of each of the standoff
    supports is attached to the band.
9. The identification device according to claim 7, wherein only the first and second ends of the
    standoff supports are attached to the band.
10. The identification device according to claim 9, wherein the band has a circumference and each of
    the standoff supports forms an arched shape in a plane containing the circumference.
11. The identification device according to claim 10, wherein each of the second ends of the standoff
    supports is releasably attachable to the band at a distance along the band from the corresponding
    first end, and each of the standoff supports is flexible and has a length longer than the distance so
    that the standoff support forms the arched shape when the second end is attached to the band.
12. The identification device according to claim 8, wherein the first end of a first standoff support
    and the first end of a second standoff support are separated by a first distance along the length of
    the band, and the first end of the second standoff support and the first end of a third standoff
    support are also separated by the first distance along the length of the band.
                                                   58

13. The identification device according to claim 8, wherein the standoff supports locate the plurality
    of tags at regular intervals along the length of the band.
14. The identification device according to claim 7, wherein at least one of the standoff supports
    locates at least a portion of one of the plurality of tags such that the portion is spaced from the
    appendage by a first distance, at least one portion of the band is located at a second distance from
    the appendage, and the first distance is larger than the second distance when the identification
    device is properly engaged with the appendage.
15. The identification device according to claim 14, wherein the first distance can be reduced by
    attaching a free end of the at least one of the standoff supports to the band.
16. The identification device according to any one of the preceding claims, further including a
    closure mechanism for securing the device to the patient.
17. The identification device according to claim 16, wherein the closure mechanism secures a first
    end of the support structure to a second end of the support structure.
18. The identification device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of
    tags includes at least three tags.
19. The identification device according to claim 18, wherein each of the at least three tags are
    encoded with the identical tag identifier and a tag-specific linking sequence, wherein the tag
    specific linking sequence of a first tag of the at least three tags differs from the linking sequence
    of a second tag of the at least three tags and a third tag of the at least three tags, and the linking
    sequence of the second tag differs from the linking sequence of the first tag and the third tag.
20. The identification device according to claim 8, wherein the second end of each of the standoff
    supports is a free end.
21. A system for identifying a patient, the system comprising:
       an identification device for identifying the patient, said identification device including:
             a plurality of linked tags containing identification information identifying the patient,
                each tag:
                    designed and configured to be readable by a standoff reading device; and
                                                     59

                  containing linking information that allows the standoff reading device to associate
                      the plurality of linking tags with one another; and
           a support structure designed and configured to locate the identification device proximate
               the patient, wherein said plurality of linking tags are supported by said support
               structure,
     wherein said plurality of linked tags comprise a corresponding plurality of linked radio
        frequency identification (RFID) tags, the system further comprising a standoff reader,
        possessed by a healthcare worker, designed and configured to read said plurality of linked
        RFID tags, said standoff reader including:
           an antenna/transponder system designed and configured to energize each of the plurality
               of linked RFID tags;
           a power source operatively connected to said antenna/transponder system and designed
               and configured to energize said antenna/transponder system with differing tag
               energizing powers at differing times;
           a tag reader designed and configured for reading the identification information and
               linking information from each of the plurality of linked tags when in reading range;
           a power controller operatively connected to said power source and said tag reader, said
               power controller designed and configured to change said power source from one of
               said differing tag-energizing powers to another of said differing tag-energizing
               powers as a function of how many of the plurality of the linked tags said tag reader
               has identified; and
           a display indicator designed and configured to display an indication that a valid
               encounter between the patient and the healthcare worker is in process in response to
               identification of a plurality of the linked tags by the tag reader.
22. A system according to claim 21, wherein said power controller of said standoff reader is
    designed and configured to change from a higher one of said differing tag-energizing powers to
    a lower one of said tag-energizing powers as a function of said tag reader concurrently
    identifying at least one additional one of the plurality of linked tags.
23. A system according to claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the patient has an appendage, and said
    support structure comprises a band designed and configured to be secured around the
    appendage.
                                                    60

24. A system according to claim 23, wherein said support structure further includes a plurality of
    standoff supports supporting corresponding respective ones of said plurality of linked tags in
    spaced relation to said band when the identification device is properly engaged with the
    appendage of the patient.
25. A system according to claim 24, wherein the patient is a human and the appendage is an arm or
    a leg, said identification information comprising information assigned by a health care facility.
26. A system according to any one of the preceding claims 21 to 25, wherein said linking
    information comprises a digitally encoded linking code.
27. A system according to any one of the preceding claims 21 to 26, wherein said linking
    information comprises a linking sequence.
                                                61

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
