                                       ABSTRACT
       The System for Continuous Observation of Rodents in Home-cage Environment
(SCORHE) was developed to quantify activity levels and behavior patterns for mice housed
within a home cage that, optional, may be disposed in a commercial ventilated cage rack. The
SCORHE home-cage in-rack design provides daytime and night-time monitoring with the
stability and consistency of the home-cage environment.       The dual-video camera custom
hardware design makes efficient use of space, does not require home-cage modification, and is
animal facility user-friendly. In various embodiments, a software application integrates the
two video streams to extract several mouse activity measures.
       (FIG. 5A)

     10 124B          122B                          100
                                       142
                                           122A            124A
                                                               102
    142
 140
                                      16B
                                141        120       16
                                                                 160
                           FIG. 5A
        124B         122B
120
                                    14210
                                                 ,
                                               122A     C124A
                                                              102
140
          142 -/106B
                           1044
                           FIG. 5B

           Systems and Methods of Video Monitoring for Vivarium Cages
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]        The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/841,064, entitled "Systems and Methods of Video Monitoring for Vivarium Cage Racks,"
filed on June 28, 2013, the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
                          GOVERNMENT INTEREST STATEMENT
         [0002] The present subject matter was made with U.S. government support. The U.S.
government has certain rights in this subject matter.
                                               FIELD
         [0003] The present disclosure relates generally to a system suitable for performing
continuous observation and monitoring of organisms. More specifically, the present disclosure
relates to systems, device networks, algorithms, and methods for monitoring the animals using
video and processing the video to gather information on the behavior of the animals.
                                         BACKGROUND
         [0004] Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
knowledge in the field.
         [0005] Laboratory animals are commonly used in a wide variety of research areas. Often
the research requires observing the animals for extended periods of time. There is increasing
interest in automated systems for video-based monitoring of laboratory animals. Currently there
are a number of commercial available monitoring systems such as those PhenoTyper (Noldus
                                                  1

Information    Technology), Home Cage Environment (CleverSys Inc), ANY-maze                   Cage
(Stoelting Co), and PhenoRack (ViewPoint Life Sciences Inc).            In addition, a number of
commercial available video processing software applications are available, such as EthoVision
XT, HomeCageScan, ANY-maze, and VideoTrack for extracting behavioral data from the
captured video. The non-invasive nature of video-based monitoring systems combined with the
precision and granularity of behavioral measures afforded by such systems enables more
advanced and thorough studies in comparison to basic systems that use a running wheel or photo
beam detectors.
        [0006] Current video-based monitoring systems often require the laboratory animals to
be moved from their home cages and placed in special enclosures for monitoring. Studies have
shown the importance of monitoring mice in their home-cage to eliminate the stress-induced
effects caused by transplanting the animals into specialized test environments. In addition, many
of the present systems rely on manual observation or scoring to augment the data gathered from
video observation. This increases the potential for processing variations and errors caused by
human interaction.    Thus, there remains a need for a robust and automated video monitoring
system that allows for continuous long-term observation of the animals in their home-cage
environments with a minimal requirement for manual data gathering, if any.
                                      BRIEF SUMMARY
        [0007] The present disclosure relates generally to a system and methods suitable for
performing continuous observation and video-based monitoring on animals, such as mice, in a
cage rack system.     In one embodiment, the system for video-based monitoring includes an
enclosure compatible with many existing cages and rack systems, such that the enclosures can be
used to monitor laboratory animals in their home cages within the rack system.
        [0008]   The present disclosure also relates to systems and methods of video processing
to identify and analyze the behavior of the animals in their home cages.         In particular, the
systems and methods can be used to study multiple animals in a single home cage. The system
includes an application executable by processor to automatically detect and track multiple
                                                 2

animals. The application also carries out methods to resolve occlusions, including non-severe
occlusions, which may arise in a home cage containing multiple animals.
        [0009]     According to an embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system
for monitoring an animal in a home cage, the system comprising:
        a home cage enclosure to enclose the home cage; where the home cage enclosure
comprises:
                a door hingedly engaged to at least one sidewall of the home cage enclosure; a
        front camera engaged to a first lens and the front camera is further engaged to the door;
                a rear camera engaged to a second lens and the rear camera engaged to a rear wall
        of the home cage enclosure, where the rear wall is engaged to the at least one sidewall
        and disposed opposite the door;
                at least one near-infrared light source; and
                a light diffuser.
        [0010] Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including,
but not limited to".
        [0011] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0012]     FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a video-based monitoring system according to one
embodiment.
        [0013]     FIG. 2 is an illustration of an example home cage according to one embodiment.
        [0014]     FIG. 3 is a photograph of a vivarium cage rack system according to one
embodiment.
                                                     3

        [0015]   FIG. 4 is a photograph of a video-based monitoring enclosures positioned
within a cage rack system according to one embodiment.
        [0016]   FIG. 5A is an illustration of a video-based monitoring enclosure according to
one embodiment.
        [0017]   FIG. 5B is a photograph of video-based monitoring enclosure according to one
embodiment.
        [0018]   FIG. 6 is an illustration of a video-based monitoring enclosure engaged to rails
of a cage rack system according to one embodiment.
        [0019]   FIG. 7 is an illustration of areas within the home cage that overlap or are not
visible by a camera of the video-based monitoring system cage according to one embodiment.
        [0020]   FIG. 8 is an illustration of the field of view for different camera placements
according to one embodiment.
        [0021]   FIG. 9 is an illustration of an illumination panel assembly according to one
embodiment.
        [0022]   FIG. 10 is a block diagram of a computing device for video processing
according to one embodiment.
        [0023]   FIG. 11 is a photograph of a testing apparatus for validating the video-based
monitoring system according to one embodiment.
        [0024]   FIG. 12 depicts screenshots of video recorded during validation of the video
based monitoring system according to one embodiment.
        [0025]   FIG. 13 is a matrix of mouse behavior detection accuracy according to one
embodiment.
        [0026]    FIG. 14 is a flow chart depicting a method of video processing according to one
embodiment.
        [0027]   FIG. 15 is a flow chart depicting a method of video processing according to one
embodiment.
                                                  4

        [0028]   FIG. 16 depicts screenshots of recorded video during video processing
according to one embodiment.
        [0029]   FIG. 17 is a screenshot of recorded video during video processing according to
one embodiment.
        [0030]   FIG. 18 is a screenshot of recorded video during video processing according to
one embodiment.
        [0031]   FIGS.    19-22 are charts of mouse activity detected by the video-based
monitoring system according to one embodiment.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0032]   The video-based monitoring system referred to herein as a System for the
Continuous Observation of Rodents in Home-cage Environment ("the SCORHE") allows
researchers to quantify activity levels and behavior patterns for mice.       In one aspect, the
SCORHE is used for mice housed in commercially available ventilated cage racks.              The
SCORHE may be used to observe mice in home cages not disposed in a cage rack (e.g. a home
cage placed on table top). Although the SCORHE system is described herein for monitoring
mice, the system is suitable for monitoring other laboratory animals.      Another aspect of the
SCORHE is that it facilitates both daytime and nighttime monitoring and recording. In various
embodiments, the SCORHE includes one or more SCORHE enclosures to receive a home cage.
In various embodiments, each enclosure uses a dual-video camera arrangement to efficiently use
the available space in the home-cage without requiring modification of the home cage. In other
embodiments, more than two cameras may be used.
        [0033]     The design of the SCORHE allows for seamless integration with ventilated
vivarium racks, thus setting it apart from current home-cage video monitoring systems.       The
SCORHE addresses many problems associated with many other mouse monitoring methods,
including circadian rhythm disruption, acclimation periods, lack of nighttime measurements, and
short monitoring periods. The SCORHE enclosure's diminutive footprint permits populating a
rack with a large number of SCORHE enclosures without requiring extra vivarium real estate. In
various embodiments, the SCORHE enclosure is low cost, and offers the lowest size ratio (i.e.,
                                                5

ratio of monitoring system volume to home-cage volume) relative to commercially available
systems. In addition, no animal facility staff training or hardware setup time is required to use
the SCORHE.        As video monitoring and associated interpretive software becomes more
prominent in mainstream methods for analyzing mice behavior, the advantages of the SCORHE
would help in overcoming the hurdles of large-scale, long-term, wide-ranging, and automatic use
of automated monitoring.
         [0034]   Various video processing algorithms of the SCORHE used for both singly- and
doubly-housed mice videos are well suited for robust mouse activity detection, characterization,
quantification, and temporal evaluation. For example, when monitoring singly housed mice, the
time duration measures for mouse placement within the cage (i.e. on-floor, on-hind legs, and off
floor) had an overall classification accuracy of approximately 94%.          Similarly, the distance
travelled measure had an accuracy of at least 90% when the mouse is on the cage ceiling and
floor.
         [0035]   Similarly, processing algorithms for doubly housed mice were qualitatively
validated by observing the nocturnal nature in the circadian rhythm, the diminished activity
levels in the sedated mice, and the increased activity levels of mice over-expressing the HMGN 1
gene.    The accuracy of the SCORHE video analysis methods is indicative of the SCORHE's
ability to provide detailed mouse behavior characterization.
         [0036]   The video analysis algorithms developed are highly automated, thereby
eliminating the need for manual observation or scoring, which avoids any processing variation
caused by human factors or multiple scorers
         [0037]   In various aspects, the SCORHE design eliminates three factors that typically
impede the wide spread use of video monitoring.          These factors include the cost incurred to
procure custom cages and racks, the requirement for additional space in the vivarium or
laboratory, and the cost of additional staff to operate and maintain the monitoring equipment.
         [0038]   In contrast to the SCORHE seamless integration into a commercial cage-rack
system, many commercially available systems require custom cages such as the PhenoTyper and
ANY-maze Cage.        However, such customized racks are typically non-ventilated and have a
                                                   6

reduced cage-capacity as compared to standard commercial racks. These factors impede large
scale use of automated monitoring in existing vivariums.        However, unlike other available
systems, SCORHE does not reduce the number of cages which can be accommodated by the
rack, nor require custom rack mechanical modifications. When compared with other systems,
the SCORHE mechanical design results in two key advantages: negligible footprint and
compatibility with ventilated racks.
         [0039]    Typically, rack-based ventilation systems not only maintain proper air
circulation in individual cages, the systems also aim to prevent contamination across cages by
exhausting spent air out of the whole room. Hence, operation in ventilated racks facilitates long
term studies by eliminating biosecurity concerns, preventing disease transmission to or from any
adjacent cages.     The SCORHE is configured to monitor laboratory animals, including mice,
housed in commercially available home-cages placed in compatible ventilated vivarium racks
while also maintaining the full cage-rack functionality intended by the manufacturer.           In
particular, the SCORHE is configured to fit in a wide-variety of ventilated rack-based cage
systems that are in use at a number of research facilities.
         [0040]    In another aspect, the SCORHE is configured to collect mouse activity and
behavior profiles over one or more 24-hour diumal cycles while preserving photoperiodic
entrainment to the circadian cycle.     In particular, one embodiment of the SCORHE uses near
infrared (NIR) illumination at a wavelength of approximately 850 nm, for example.             NIR
illumination is preferred, as it does not significantly affect the circadian rhythm of the mice.
Moreover, systemic physiological effects associated with exposure to low levels of NIR
illumination have not been reported.        By using NIR illumination, the SCORHE operates
independently of the ambient light cycle that occurs in vivarium rooms.          For example, as
explained more fully below, the SCORHE includes a door with windows that allow the ambient
light in the vivarium rooms to illuminate the cage.
         [0041]    The data generated by these algorithms complements          any optional data
collected by other means (e.g., physiological signals, weight/size, food consumption) to provide
a more extensive phenotype of the mice, and/or a more rigorous assessment of the effect of novel
treatments.    These measurements could also function as a streamlined screening tool, i.e., to
                                                   7

provide a quick comparative determination (with a previously recorded baseline) of the viability
of a mouse to undergo further treatment or experimentation.
        [0042]   FIG. 1 is a block diagram of one embodiment of the SCORHE 10.                 The
SCORHE 10 is configured and dimensioned to enclose or engage a home cage 20 for monitoring
mice living therein. The SCORHE system includes a SCORHE enclosure 100 in communication
with a video processing system 200 that includes a computing device 202 and an optional video
recorder 208 to monitor and record video of mice in the home cage 20.
        [0043]   A home cage 20, shown in FIG. 2, is used herein to refer to an enclosure where
a mouse or other animal is housed. Typically, the home cage 20 is where the mouse sleeps and
includes devices for providing food and water to the mouse. The home cage 20, is, for example
any cage that is commonly used in vivarium rack systems. In one embodiment, the cage 20
includes a generally transparent surface 22 that may define one or more walls 24 and a bottom
surface 26 of the cage. The cage 20 may also include a wire-bar lid 28 that is engaged to the
walls 24 and a food hopper 30. In various examples, the home cage 20 also includes a water
bottle (not shown). By way of example and not limitation, one particular cage 20 that may be
used with the SCORHE is the Model 5 Expanded Mouse Cage, which is typically used with the
caging systems produced by Thoren.
        [0044]   Fig. 3 depicts a ventilated cage rack system 300 that is compatible with the
SCORHE 10 to increase the functionality of the rack system while also while maintaining the
efficiency of using a readily-available multi-cage ventilated rack. For example, the rack system
shown is the Maxi-Miser Rack Systems by Thoren Caging Systems Inc., of Hazleton, PA. When
used with the rack system, the SCORHE 10 easily fits in the space between adjacent home cages
20, as well as, fitting within the space between the cages on opposing sides of the double bay
rack system 300. The SCORHE 10 integrates seamlessly with the cage racks without hindering
access to the cages. The SCORHE enclosure 100 can simply be slid into the rack system 300 by
guiding the side-panels of the enclosure (i.e., the NIR illumination panels 142, as shown in FIGS.
5A-B, 6, and 9 ) into space that normally separate (i.e. unused open space) neighboring cages. In
one aspect, the SCORHE enclosure 100 may sit on the shelves 302 of the rack system 300. In
another aspect, the SCORHE enclosure may sit on a bench or tabletop for observing animals
                                                   8

without requiring a cage rack. FIG. 4 depicts embodiments of the SCORHE enclosure 100 as
placed in a rack system, such as the rack system 300.
        [0045]    Within each home cage 20, the wire-bar lid 28 and food hopper 30 may present
an obstacle for a typical video monitoring system that uses a single camera. As such, various
embodiments of the SCORHE enclosure 100 employ two or more cameras to reduce system
blind spots caused by the hanging food basket. One such embodiment of the SCORHE enclosure
100 is shown in FIGS. 4-5.
        [0046]    FIG. 5A depicts a three-dimension computer aided design (3D-CAD) model of
one embodiment of a SCORHE enclosure 100. A photograph of another embodiment of the
SCORHE enclosure 100 is shown in FIG. 5B. The SCORHE enclosure 100 is compatible with a
variety of cage-rack systems, provides consistent cage illumination, and is capable of capturing
video of nearly the full cage volume.
        [0047]    In one aspect, the SCORHE enclosure 100 is constructed of a, preferably
lightweight, rigid material to withstand handling. The materials are also selected to address any
illumination anomalies (i.e., reflections, shadows) For example; the selected materials include
translucent acrylic that serves to diffuse the light sources. Without the translucent acrylic, the
light sources may be visible in the captured image as bright spots with darker regions in between
the spots. The use of acrylic eliminates this issue and provides a uniform diffuse light source.
        [0048]    In various embodiments, the SCORHE enclosure 100 includes a dual-camera
system 120, a NIR illumination system 140, a bottom surface 141, and a door assembly 160, as
shown in FIG. 5A. Other embodiments of the SCORHE enclosure 100 do not include a bottom
surface, but have a frame support 143 that joins the sidewalls of the enclosure. In addition, each
SCORHE enclosure includes a power supply (e.g. a 12V DC supply) (not shown) and at least
one port and/or wire (not shown) to transmit the output from the dual-camera system 120 to the
computing device 202, as shown in FIG. 1, via a wired or wireline connection. Alternatively, the
SCORHE enclosure 100 may include one or more wireless transmitters and receivers to transmit
or receive data wirelessly.
        Cage Access
                                                  9

        [0049]    In one embodiment, the door assembly 160 of the SCORHE enclosure 100
includes a hinged door 102 with a magnetic latch 104 to allow for insertion and removal of the
home cage 20 from the rack 300 without removing the enclosure from the rack system. As
shown in FIGS. 5A-B, the door 102 incorporates two large window cutouts 106A-B to ensure the
ambient light levels in the cage 20 coincide with the diumal cycling of light in a vivarium room.
In addition, the window cutouts 106A-B enable animal care staff to conduct routine visual
inspections of the mice in the cage without disrupting the monitoring of the SCORHE 10. In
various embodiments, the window cutouts 106A-B may include a transparent or translucent
material.   In another embodiment, the cutouts 106A-B may be omitted, such that the NIR
illumination system 140 provides both the day and night illumination the rather than relying on
the room's ambient light. The bottom surface 141 of the SCORHE enclosure 10 may be entirely
transparent, translucent, or opaque in various embodiments. In other embodiments, the bottom
surface 141 may include combinations of transparent, translucent, or opaque portions.
The Dual-Camera System
        [0050]    The dual camera system 120 includes at least two cameras 122A-B positioned
to provide video analysis of at least the entire lower portion of the cage 20. In particular, the
cameras 122A-B are suitable for performing video analysis when two or more mice are housed
in the cage 20, as well as to overcome the challenges of video analysis associated with non
uniform bedding material (not shown).      In many aspects, the ability to monitor and analyze
behavior for multiple animals housed in the same cage is desired, as there is a widely held belief
that the solitary housing of mice adversely affects the overall profile of mouse activity.      In
addition, the SCORHE 10 is well suited to capture video data related to the social interactions
between two animals housed in the same enclosure.
        [0051]    The positioning of the cameras 122A-B provides a bird's-eye view of the cage.
In contrast to many existing systems, which are often limited to top-down and/or side-views of
the cage 20, the cameras 122A-B are better suited to capture video that provides sufficient mouse
shape detail, improve the accuracy of tracking multiple mice, and facilitate detection of mice in
images despite frequent changes in bedding position and appearance.
                                                10

         [0052]   For example, cameras that capture only a side-view of the cage are typically
placed at a mid-point of the cage height and have an image plane that is parallel to the sidewall
of the cage.    While, the resulting video may have sufficient detail to resolve fine-grained
behavior such as grooming, the video processing for side-view systems is more difficult due to
occlusions and/or background variations caused by the displacement of bedding material by the
mice. In addition, a greater challenge arising from side-view camera systems is the difficulty of
developing behavior analysis methods when multiple animals are caged.          More specifically,
when using side-view cameras, the frequency and/or severity of the occlusion of one mouse by
another adversely impacts video processing and the development of automated behavior
detection methods. As a result, nearly all existing processing methods for single camera side
view systems are effectively limited to solitary housed animals. However, one known attempt to
analyze video of multiple mice in a side-view system is limited to tracking the position and
contour of the mice in a 1,000-frame sequence (approximately thirty-three seconds of video)
rather than analyzing behavior over a longer period.
         [0053]   Cameras positioned to capture a top-down perspective are generally more robust
to account for changes in the bedding material and a informative for tracking the positions of the
mice, however, they typically offer less detail for detecting micro-movements and behaviors,
such as grooming. In additional, the mechanical constraints of operating in a ventilated rack
system with typical commercial cages often precludes the use of a camera with a top-down
perspective alone or in conjunction with a side-view camera.
         [0054]   The positioning and the vantage point of the SCORHE cameras 122A-B
captures more video detail for behavior analysis than top-down systems, and has a greater ability
to resolve occlusions of the mice than side-view systems. In particular, the cameras 122A-B are
aligned in opposing directions at the approximate mid-point of the corresponding side.
         [0055]   To minimize the overall depth of the video capture system and therefore,
minimize the space required by the hardware of the SCORHE enclosure 100, between opposing
cages in the double-bay rack 300 (i.e., two cages situated back-to-back in rack shown in FIG. 3),
the cameras 122A-B are remote-head cameras, in one embodiment. By way of example and not
limitation, the cameras 122A-B may be remote-head cameras having part number STC-HR170
                                                 11

by Sensor Technologies America of Carrollton, TX. In another example, the cameras 122A-B
may be digital video cameras, such as but not limited to web cameras and Internet Protocol (IP)
cameras, that allow for the collection of video data over a data network, such as the Internet or a
local-area network, among others. In one aspect, the digital video cameras may be connected to
the data network via an Ethernet connection or any other suitable connection.               In one
embodiment, the cameras 122A-B are module cameras, such as those configured to connect to a
Raspberry PI circuit-board computer, to acquire video and stream the data directly to a
computing device via a network. This digital video data may be stored at the computing device
and/or processed in real time.
        [0056]   In various embodiments, the rear camera 122B will occupy a limited space
behind the SCORHE enclosure 100, while allowing another cage to be fully inserted in the
opposing rack cage slot. Similarly, the front camera 122A has a thin profile, afforded by the use
of the remote-head camera, and therefore keeps the SCORHE enclosure 100 from inconveniently
protruding too far forward and acting as an obstruction to vivarium staff working around the rack
300. FIG. 7 is a illustration of the overlapping region 130 of the cage 20 that is visible to both
SCORHE cameras 122A-B, as well as an occluded region directly beneath the center of the
hopper 30, generally indicated as 132, and the occluded regions on both sides of the cage,
generally indicated as 134, each of which is the partial volume defined by the cage walls 24 and
the side of the food hopper 30. The pairing of the cameras 122A-B and each respective lens
124A-B, in conjunction with the placement and orientation of the cameras, limits the area not
visible by the dual-camera system 120 to the three relatively small spatial regions 132-134.
        [0057]   In various embodiments, the cameras 122A-B are each paired with a respective
lens 124A-B. In some embodiments, the space constraints necessitate placing the lenses 124A-B
close (e.g. < 3mm) to the front and rear walls 24 of the cage 20. In these embodiments, the close
proximity of the lenses 124-A-B to the cage 20 mandated the use of fisheye lenses. By way of
example and not limitation, the lenses 124A-B may be fisheye lenses having part number
DSL215B-NIR by Sunex Inc., of Carlsbad, CA. The fisheye lenses 124A-B provide a panoramic
view sufficiently wide to capture images of the outer edges of the entire cage volume. Moreover,
the close proximity of the lenses to the cage surfaces is advantageous as this minimizes
                                                12

reflections off the front and rear cage walls 24 that may be captured by the dual-camera system
120.
         [00581   The lenses 124A-B are placed near the top of the cage front and rear walls 24 at
or near the mid-point of the cage width, as indicated by 126. The lenses 124A-B are positioned
with a downwards tilt of in a range between approximately 20 degrees and 40 degrees from a
plane parallel to the bottom surface 26. In one aspect, this elevated lens configuration minimizes
any blockage of the camera field of view due to bedding displacement (e.g., a pile of bedding
caused by the mice walking, foraging, or digging).
         [0059]   In another aspect, the elevated lens configuration reduces both the likelihood
and severity of occlusions in cages containing two or more mice. Research as shown that, while
in a home-cage, the mouse or mice spend a majority of the time on the floor or bottom surface of
the cage 20. The elevated lens configuration increases the amount of floor area visible to each
camera 122A-B, thereby reducing the probability of the mice overlapping relative to the plane of
the camera field of view.
         [0060]   Moreover, as shown in FIG. 8, even when the mice 400A-B are touching or
otherwise overlapping on the cage floor, the field of view for each for each of the elevated lens
124A-B includes more of the outline of the mice. For example, (a) illustrates a partial occlusion
of one mouse 400B by another mouse 400A as seen by a camera/lens pair positioned at a lower
position on the wall 24 of the cage 20 (e.g. approximately at the mid-point along a vertical height
of the cage in a plane parallel to the cage bottom). As shown, the position of the mice 400A-B
results in a severe occlusion that is difficult to resolve. In contrast, (b) depicts the mice A-B in
the same positions as shown in (a), however, the elevated and tilted configuration of the
camera/lens pair (similar to that of the SCORHE dual-camera system 120, lessens the severity of
the occlusion, thereby increasing the success of video processing methods and algorithms to
effectively detect and resolve the occlusion.
         [0061]   In various embodiments, mice or other animals observed by the SCORHE
system 10 may be marked to aid in identifying and distinguishing the animals when housed
together. Any suitable marking method may be used. In one embodiment, the mice 400A-B, as
                                                   13

shown in FIG. 8, may be marked using non-invasive methods. By way of example, the mice
400A-B may be fitted with ear-tags (not shown). In one aspect, the ear-tags include indicia that
be text based or image based. The indicia may be human-readable and/or machine-readable. In
one embodiment, the indicia is sized to be readily detectable by the cameras 122A-B, such that
the mice 400A-B may be automatically identifiable and trackable during video processing.
        The Near-Infrared (NIR) Illumination System
         [0062]   The SCORHE dual-camera system 120 can record mouse activity for the entire
duration of the diurnal cycle due, at least in part, to the NIR illumination system 140. Studies
have shown that the NIR wavelength band (i.e. from about 800 nm to about 2500 nm) is not
visible to rodents and does not disrupt the mouse circadian rhythm. Although video data may be
captured using the ambient light in the vivarium, the ambient light conditions are typically
inconsistent due to many factors, including but not limited to the physical location of the cages,
shadows, and temporal variations.       The NIR illumination system 140, therefore allows the
SCORHE 10 to capture data without the reliance on ambient light.
         [0063]   In one embodiment, the NIR illumination system 140 includes a pair of NIR
panel assemblies 142, with each panel making up opposing sidewalls of the SCORHE enclosure
100.   As shown in FIG. 9, each NIR panel assembly 142 includes at least one light source
positioned between a parallel pair of diffusers 144. Each NIR panel assembly 142 also includes
light-sealing covers 146 and suitable fasteners 148 to complete the assembly.
         [0064]   Any suitable NIR light source may be used. For example, in one embodiment,
the light source is a pair of high-flux light emitting diode (LED) strips 150A-B, such as those
produced by Environmental Lights of San Diego, CA, having part number IR12-850. The LED
strips 150A-B are positioned at opposite ends of the panel assembly 142 and oriented to
illuminate the space 152 between the strips. In one embodiment, the LED strips 150A-B may be
positioned at the top and bottom of the panel 142, while in another embodiment, the LED strips
are positioned at the sides of the panel. In another embodiment, the NIR light source is an array
of LEDs. The array is associated and in communication with a printed circuit board (PCB) for
controlling the duration and intensity of the LED illumination.
                                                 14

        [0065]    In either embodiment, the LED strips 150 are sandwiched between a parallel set
of diffusers 144. In various embodiments, the diffusers are white acrylic sheets approximately
1/4 inch thick.     The acrylic sheets diffuse the light source to provide sufficiently uniform
illumination to the cage interior. The covers 146 seal the open ends between the diffusers 144,
while the fasteners 148 secure the diffusers, covers, and light sources together to form the panel
assembly 142.
        [0066]    To minimize any illumination gradients within the cage interior, the light
source(s) preferably span approximately the entire length of both sides of the SCORHE
enclosure 100 and therefore the cage 20. The total panel thickness, indicated by 154, is less than
the distance between adjacent cages 20 when placed side-by-side in consecutive rack cage slots.
As such, the NIR panel thickness 154 is limited to ensure that the rack can still be fully loaded to
with cages 20. In one embodiment, the NIR panel assemblies 142 fit within the channels (i.e.,
unused open space) that normally separate neighboring cages. In another embodiment, as shown
in FIG. 6, the NIR panel assemblies may fit within rails 162, already existing or retro-fitted to the
shelves 302 of a cage rack system.
        [0067]    In various embodiments, the SCORHE cameras 122A-B do not include any NIR
blocking filters, such as those commonly found in visible spectrum cameras. It is desired that the
SCORHE cameras 122A-B are sensitive to NIR light in order to capture video having sufficient
brightness and contrast for reliable segmentation during video processing.
        [0068]    In one embodiment, a light blocking filter that filters out light in the range
visible by humans was installed between the lenses 124A-B and their respective cameras 122A
B.   By way of example, one such light-blocking filter is the Kodak Wratten Infrared Filter,
having part number NT54-518 and produced by Edmund Optics of Barrington, NJ. Blocking the
visible spectrum limits the effective illumination for dual-camera system 120 to the uniform
illumination provided by the NIR illumination system 140, thus ensuring near consistent
brightness in the captured video throughout both dark and light cycles in the vivarium. As such,
the light level during the diurnal-cycle in the vivarium have no effect on the video output from
the SCORHE enclosure 100.         Therefore, in various embodiments, a single video-processing
                                                 15

algorithm or variable (e.g., image threshold level) can be used regardless of the time when the
video was captured.
        Video Processing
        [0069]   As shown in FIG. 1, the SCORHE enclosure 100 is in communication with the
computing device 202. Data captured by the dual camera system 120 of the SCORHE enclosure
100 may be transmitted to the computing device 202 for video processing in a number of ways.
For example, the video data may be streamed directly to the computing device 202 for
processing in near real-time. In another example, the video data may be recorded and stored on a
computer readable medium, including but not limited to a hard disk drive, a flash drive, random
access memory, or other data storage device or system and processed later. In yet another
example, the video data is recorded and stored at a video recorder device 208, including digital
video and audio for subsequent processing.
        [0070]   By way of example and not limitation, the video recorder device 208 where
video data received from each SCORHE enclosure 100 is recorded may be a 4-channel digital
video recorder (DVR). In this example, the output of the DVR is then digitized and saved to a
computer readable medium via a suitable software application. Subsequent processing may then
be performed at the computing device 202 executing one or more applications, including but not
limited to MathWorks' Matlab and Simulink applications.
        The SCORHE Application
        [0071]   As shown in FIGS. 1 and 10, the SCORHE 10 includes at least one computing
device 202 executing a SCORHE Video Processing application ("SVPA) 204 for processing
video data. The computing device 202 is communicatively connected and/or linked to a data
storage system 206 and a video recorder device 208.        In one embodiment, the data storage
system 206 and a video recorder device 208 may be integrated with the computing device 202.
In other embodiments, the computing device 202 may be connected to one or more other
computing devices including mobile devices through a communication network (not shown),
including the Internet or other wired or wireless communication.
                                                 16

         [0072]    The computing device 202 is a computer or computing device that includes one
or more processors or processing systems 210 and memory 212 and executes the SVPA 204 to
process video data captured from the SCORHE enclosures 100. According to one aspect, the
SVPA 204 manages the collection of, storage of, and access to video data stored on the data
storage system. In another aspect, the SVPA 204 is also used to manage the collection and
recording of the video data.
         [0073]    According to one aspect, the computing device 202 includes a computer
readable medium ("CRM") 214 configured with the SVPA 204, as shown in FIG. 10.                The
SVPA 204 includes instructions or modules 216-224 that are executable by the processing
system 210 to process and analysis the video data.
         [0074]    The CRM 214 may include volatile media, nonvolatile media, removable media,
non-removable media, and/or another available medium that can be accessed by the computing
device 202. By way of example and not limitation, the CRM 214 comprises computer storage
media and communication media.           Computer storage media includes non-transient storage
memory, volatile media, nonvolatile media, removable media, and/or non-removable media
implemented in a method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable
instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data.       Communication media may
embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data and
include an information delivery media or system.
         [0075]    The modules of the SVPA 204 include, but are not limited to a user-interface
module 216, a segmentation module 218, a classifier module 220, a coordinate module 222, and
an occlusion reasoning module 224. Although identified as individual modules for the purposes
of illustration, the functionality of the modules 216-224 may be combined and/or overlap with
the functionality of other modules. In addition, the modules 216-224 may be located on a single
CRM 214 or distributed across multiple computer readable media on multiple computing
devices.
         [0076]    A user-interface (UI) module 216 generates one or more input forms for display
at the computing device 202 in response to a data entry or video processing request.          For
                                                 17

example, a user (e.g., a researcher) of the SCORHE 10 uses an input device to interact with, for
example, a web browser via a user interface to access and display a video processing request
form or analysis result display generated by the SVPA 204. In one example, the user interface
includes a display device, such as a computer monitor, for viewing data and/or forms and an
input device, such as a keyboard or a pointing device (e.g., mouse, trackball, pen, touch pad, or
other device), for allowing the user to interact with the video processing request form to generate
a video processing request request.
         [0077]   For example, a user enters data into the video processing request form to
identify one or more recorded videos, home cages 20, mice, temporal data, or other data to
identify video data to be processes. After data entry is completed, the user uses the UI to select
one or more options displayed on the video processing request form to select which steps of
video processing are to be performed, identify particular behaviors of interest, and/or input
additional data to initiate video processing.
         [0078]   According to another example, the UI module 406 generates a results form for
display via the display device of the computing device 202 or another computing device. The
results form may include one or more graphs, charts, plots, or data in other formats to display the
results of the video processing and a behavior identification and analysis.
         [0079]   In one aspect, the segmentation module 218 identifies objects in each video
output from the cameras 122A-B of the SCORHE enclosure 100. For example, the segmentation
module 218 partitions each frame of the video outputs into separate objects, based at least in part
on the color, intensity, or texture of pixels in the image within each frame.
         [0080]   The classifier module 220 classifies the objects partitioned by the segmentation
module 218 according to pre-defined characteristics or parameters. For example, the classifier
module 220 classifies the position of the object(s) identified as the mouse according to pre
defined designations. These designations may include, but are not limited to: a) completely off
the cage floor; b) on its hind-legs; or c) completely on the cage floor. In one aspect, the classifier
module 220 assigns a designation to the object in each frame, by comparing the objects position
and orientation to training data having manually assigned designations. By way of example, the
                                                    18

training data may include over approximately 120,000 frames of video acquired from the
SCORHE cameras 122A-B, with each image manually designated as one of the possible
designations.   In one aspect, the training includes designations for a variety of basic object
shapes or blobs based on the shape data, such as the centroid, area and the major and minor axis
end points for elliptical shapes.
         [0081]   The coordinate module 222 determines the physical coordinates of the objects
identified by the segmentation module 218 in each frame. For objects in motion, the coordinate
module 222 may use temporal data to determine the distance travelled by the object (i.e. mouse)
as well as the speed of the object.
         [0082]   The occlusion reasoning module 224 determines whether an object identified by
the segmentation module 218 is actually formed by the occlusion of one object by another. For
example, when there are a pair of mice in close proximity to one another, the segmentation
module 218 may identify the pair of mice as a single object or a blob. In response, the occlusion
reasoning module 224 attempts to resolve this connected component, by separating the object or
blob into two distinct objects. In one aspect, the occlusion reasoning module 222 considers the
size and orientation of the blob, as well as comparing the individual frames from the video
outputs from both cameras 122A-B to differentiate between the objects.
        Validation System
         [0083]   In one embodiment, a secondary hardware system and corresponding algorithms
were developed to quantify the accuracy of the SCORHE video processing algorithms and
methods. To address challenges in determining the mouse coordinates, such as ambiguities due
to self-occlusion (i.e. when the posture of the mouse renders parts of the same mouse
unobservable in video) and the non-linearity of the video image due to the fisheye lens 124A-B,
and to estimation of the mouse physical coordinates, a custom validation system 500, as shown
in FIG. 11 was designed and constructed. Operating simultaneously and without interfering with
the SCORHE enclosure 100, the validation system 500 provides a view into the cage that more
readily yields physical coordinates (along the width and length of the cage 20, but not the height)
of the mouse. The translucent acrylic construction holds NIR illumination assemblies 502A-B
                                                19

similar to the NIR illumination panels 142 and two cameras similar to the cameras 122A-B fitted
with standard lenses.
         [0084]   During validation, the SCORHE enclosure 100 is placed on top of the validation
system 500 at a height such that the whole cage floor is imaged by the dual-camera combined
field-of-view. The home cage 20 includes a grid on the cage floor in place of the bedding. The
additional NIR illumination included with the validation system 500 compensates for the absence
of the higher-intensity surface (e.g., bedding) and enhances the contrast between the mouse and
the cage floor.
         [0085]   As the dual-camera system capture the mouse movement, the validation system
500 simultaneously captures separate video that can be easily translated to precise physical
coordinates.    Although estimates of 3D coordinates within the cage volume are possible, for
simplicity and ease of development, the methods herein described are limited to estimating
position along the width and length of the cage. Estimates are restricted to when the mouse
underside lies in one of two planes: the cage floor and the cage ceiling. To enable image- to
physical-coordinate mapping in each of these planes, a calibration step is carried out in which a
set of image points with known physical coordinates are marked. A linear fit relating the two
sets of coordinates is then computed.      The linear fit equation is an interpolation that enables
computation of the physical coordinates of any image point. Armed with the mapping equation,
a simple three-step algorithm was written to extract the physical coordinates of the mouse
appearing in the validation station video. First, an image of the whole cage floor is constructed
by means of tiling the two video feeds from the validation system cameras. Second, the resulting
tiled image is segmented to localize the mouse blob. Third, mouse blob centroid coordinates are
input to the fit function resulting in the corresponding physical coordinate for the center of the
mouse along the width and length of the cage floor.
         [0086]   FIG. 12 is a screen capture of video acquired with the SCORHE enclosure 100
mounted above the validation system 500. The top frames 504A-B are the validation system
views, and the bottom frames 504C-D are the SCORHE views.             The top frames 504A-B are
aligned and segmented to determine the precise physical coordinates of the mouse within the
cage.
                                                 20

        [0087] Instead of using the same validation setup to gather on-ceiling mouse position
data, the validation system 500 was placed in an inverted orientation on top of the cage, and the
normal cage lid was removed to render the cage visible to the validation system cameras. The
primary reason for using the top-down view of the cage was to avoid the negative effects on
mouse behavior in the absence of cage bedding. A lack of bedding resulted in the mouse never
hanging from the ceiling.
        Validation
        [0088]    To evaluate accuracy of the distance travelled measure, two independent
recordings of SCORHE coupled with validation system video were acquired.            The distance
travelled by the mouse as computed from the validation system video is regarded as the actual
distance. This true distance is compared to the distance estimate obtained by processing the
SCORHE video. The ratio of the estimated distance and the actual distance is taken to be the
SCORHE accuracy ratio. The first recording, a 60,000 frame sequence, was used to establish an
accuracy rate for the on-floor distance estimation method. The mouse was on the floor for
approximately 19, 000 frames spread throughout the sequence, and on its hind legs for the
remaining number of frames. The SCORHE on-floor distance measure accuracy ratio was 97%.
The second recording, a 2,900 frame sequence, was used to establish an accuracy rate for the on
ceiling distance estimation method. The mouse was on the ceiling of the cage for the whole
duration of the sequence. A comparison of estimated and true distance traveled for the 2,900
frame sequence resulted in an SCORHE on-ceiling distance measure accuracy ratio of 90%.
        [0089]    The accuracy of the mouse placement classifier was determined by comparing
the classifier output with manual scoring for 88,811 frames. The three different behaviors were
represented almost evenly in the chosen video clips. FIG. 13 is a confusion matrix 600 for
SCORHE single-mouse processing.           The matrix 600 is based on the classifier output for
approximately 90, 000 manually scored frames.
        Video Processing Algorithms and Outputs
        [0090]    The video processing system 200 of the SCORHE 10 is a useful behavior
analysis tool that is well suited for the automated processing of the two video outputs from the
                                                21

dual-camera system 120. In many aspects, the video outputs are inherently different from that of
other monitoring systems due, at least in part, to the camera positioning and perspective, as well
as the use of the fisheye-lenses 124A-B. These features may preclude or limit the use of other
academically or commercially available video analysis software applications to process the
SCORHE video outputs.           Therefore, in some embodiments, the SCORHE uses specially
developed methods and algorithms for accurately and automatically processing the video data
captured by the dual-camera system 120. In one aspect, efforts were made to keep the methods
and algorithms employed simple, when there is no need to ascertain an upper limit on the
accuracy of the system or to determine a number of measurable behaviors. In other aspects,
more elaborate methods and algorithms were developed to enhance the accuracy of analysis and
increase the level of detail (e.g., measurement variety and subtle behavior discrimination).
        [0091]    FIG. 14 is a flowchart depicting one embodiment of a method 700 or algorithm
to measure the distance travelled by the mouse, as well as to report the time durations of the
mouse being on-floor, off-floor, and on-hind legs (i.e. in a rearing posture) for use with singly
housed mice. In one embodiment, the SCORHE output video is saved to a hard-disk and the
algorithms were subsequently executed.
        [0092]    To demonstrate the viability of extracting mouse activity measure from the
SCORHE video in one embodiment, the methods and software algorithms were developed to
calculate the distance travelled by the mouse, as well as the time spent by the mouse in various
positions relative to the cage floor 26 (e.g., completely off the cage floor; in an elevated bipedal
stance; and on the cage floor). More specifically, for each frame of video a label is generated
indicating whether all four limbs are on the cage-floor, only the hind legs are on the cage-floor,
or all four limbs are off the cage-floor. In one example, the SCORHE was used to study the
quantitative difference in the activity levels between a C57BL6 ABCB5 knockout mouse and a
parental C57BL6 mouse that were housed singly.
        [0093]    In one aspect, the processing algorithm for singly-housed mouse is based on the
fusion of information derived from both cameras. In one aspect the, video outputs are received
at the segmentation module 218 of the SCORHE application 204.             As explained more fully
below, the video data is segmented at 702 and outputs of the segmentation module for each video
                                                 22

output are combined. At 704, the classifier module 220 classifies the mouse placement as either
completely off the cage floor, on its hind-legs, or completely on the cage floor. The output of the
classifier module, which in one aspect is a coarse measure of activity itself, is then used to
estimate the physical coordinates of the mouse within the cage 20 at 706.           The coordinate
module 222 determines the physical coordinates of the mouse in each frame. In addition, at 708,
the coordinate module 222 uses temporal data to measure the distance travelled by the mouse
and optionally, to estimate the speed of the mouse during movement, among other activities and
behaviors.
                 Segmentation
         [0094]   At the segmentation module 218, the SCORHE application 204 identifies pixels
in the video outputs that correspond to mouse.         Due to the combined effects of the NIR
illumination system 140, the visible light blocking filter and each camera's spectral sensitivity
range, the video outputs are typically monochromatic. In one example, the SCORHE 10, is used
to monitor mice having dark (e.g., black) coats. The dark-colored mouse is therefore of lower
intensity than the background. In this example, a single image-wide threshold, however, is not
relied on to isolate mouse pixels, which may be identified as a foreground object from the
background.     Instead, the image is divided into localized regions with similar contrast and
intensity properties. For example, the cage ceiling or lid, bedding, the illumination panels, and
the feeding-hopper areas may be considered as localized regions. Robust threshold levels are
chosen for each region. In one embodiment, the output from the segmentation module 218 is a
binary image with white pixels where the intensity level is lower than then corresponding
regional threshold value. Therefore, the darker pixels are identified as potentially corresponding
to mouse.
         [0095]   Next, a connected component analysis (i.e., blob analysis) is performed on the
threshold binary image to identify groups of contiguous pixels (i.e., blobs). Blobs deemed too
small to physically represent a mouse are eliminated. For each of the two camera images, the
physically largest remaining blob is then identified as the mouse.         Blob statistics, such as
centroid and ellipse fit parameters, are also determined for each blob.
                                                  23

         Placement Determination
         [0096] The classifier module 220, that has been trained using a feature set, as previously
described, is used to determine whether the mouse is completely on the floor, totally off the
floor (i.e., on the wire-bar lid), or in a rearing posture with only hind legs on the floor. In some
embodiments, behaviors such as scratching or grooming are classified as to the mouse being
located on the floor. In one aspect, if the mouse is in the field-of-view of both cameras 122A-B,
the blob data, as determined at the classifier module 220, from both views (i.e., front and rear)
are fused, and a placement determination is made based on the concatenated features set.
         [0097] To ensure that of all the features evaluated by the classifier module 220 are
equally weighted, each feature is normalized by a corresponding standard deviation. The final
mouse classification is then determined with a nearest neighbor classifier, in one embodiment.
The nearest neighbor method does not require any statistical or probabilistic assumption, but
rather assigns a new data point to the same class as the nearest point in the training feature set.
In particular, the Euclidean distance is used to determine nearness for the nearest neighbor
method.
         Coordinate Estimation
         [0098] The coordinate module determines the position of the mouse within the cage 20
and determines the distance travelled by the mouse. As, the dual-camera system 120 does not
provide multiple (e.g. orthogonal) views of the whole cage space,                traditional rigorous
mathematical models for recovering physical coordinates from output images is not preferred,
although they may still be used.
         [0099] To derive the mouse-position estimation function, a time synchronized learning
set composed of known physical coordinates (i.e., obtained from the video processing validation
system as previously described) and their corresponding blob features are used. The learning set
is obtained by processing validation system and SCORHE enclosure 100 videos. For each set of
video frames (i.e., two streaming from the cameras 122A-B, and two streaming from the
validation system, as shown in FIG. 12), the previously described three step algorithm is applied
to the validation system frames to generate the physical coordinates of the mouse, while the
                                                    24

SCORHE enclosure video stream is processed normally to generate the blob features. As stated
earlier, two mapping functions were utilized, one for the floor plane (i.e. when the mouse is on
the floor), and another for the ceiling plane (i.e. when the mouse is hanging on the ceiling). For
on-floor position estimation, a third degree polynomial fit well modeled the relation between
blob centroid and the physical position. The fit was generated based on approximately 6,000 sets
of coordinate pairs (i.e. the physical coordinates extracted from the validation station video, and
the corresponding blob image centroid extracted from the SCORHE enclosure video). When the
mouse is on the ceiling, the blob centroid was not sufficient to correlate image coordinates to
physical coordinates, therefore all of the blob statistics were used to estimate the mouse position.
The estimate is obtained through a weighted k-Nearest Neighbor method with k=20. The on
ceiling learning set is composed of approximately 5,000 measured coordinates paired with the
corresponding set of SCORHE blob statistics. When a new frame in which the mouse is on the
ceiling is captured by SCORHE, the extracted blob statistics are compared against the on-ceiling
learning set.    The Euclidean distance between the extracted set of blob statistics and each
element of the learning set is computed. An average of the coordinates of the nearest twenty data
points weighted by their inverse distance is taken to be the on-ceiling position estimate.
         Activity Data Computation
         [00100] The various methods and algorithms are used to produce data corresponding to
the physical position of the mouse and a placement classification for each set of frames received
from the dual-camera system 120 of the SCORHE enclosure 100.                     Further analysis to
characterize the actual behavior of the mouse may be conducted using a wide variety of
techniques, including those well-known to one having ordinary skill in the art.           By way of
example, an hourly plot of one or more measures over the entire circadian cycle may be used to
study the mouse behavior. In this example, the SCORHE application is configured to generate
data for one-hour increments over the complete circadian cycle. The time duration associated
with each of the three placement classifier outputs (i.e., on-floor, off-floor, on-hind legs) may be
determined as the fraction of frames assigned to each of the three categories over each increment.
To compute the distance travelled each hour, the difference in the mouse position at two second
intervals is computed using the Euclidean metric, and summed over the entire hour. In one
                                                  25

embodiment, if the mouse is classified to be on its hind legs, then no physical coordinate
estimate is generated.    The contribution to distance measure in that case is taken to be the
difference between the mouse position before standing on its hind legs and after returning to the
floor or climbing fully on the ceiling.
        Doubly-Housed Mice Video Analysis
        [00101] In various embodiments, the SCORHE 10 can be used to monitor the behavior
of doubly-housed mice. An experiment to display the efficacy of the doubly-housed mice video
analysis algorithm was conducted to detect and quantify the altered activity levels resulting from
administering a sedative. In particular, doubly-housed mice to study the activity levels of mice
over-expressing HMGN1 and their normal control counterparts were monitored.                 In the
experiment to quantify efficacy, one of the desired mouse monitoring measurements for this
project development was the number of rearings, incremented every time part of the mouse blob
crosses an estimated vertical threshold boundary. Other activity measures are the number of
crossings along both the shorter dimension of the cage (i.e. side-to-side) as well as the longer
dimension (i.e. front-to-rear and vice versa). The duration of time in which the mice remain
motionless was also computed.
        [00102] FIG. 15 is a block diagram depicting one embodiment of a method 800 or
algorithm developed to process video from doubly-housed mice. At 802, the segmentation
module segments the video from both cameras 122A-B, in the same manner as previously
described for analyzing singly-housed mice. In this embodiment, however the resulting output
typically includes up to two blobs per view. At 804, each blob is assigned one of two cage
region designations depending on its location in the image.        The region designations are an
overlapping region or a non-overlapping region. As shown in FIG. 16, blobs appearing in the
overlapping region 900 of the cage are matched and assumed to be due to the same mouse.
        [00103] As shown in FIG. 15, the mouse 902 (in dashed ellipse) appearing in both
(a)front and (b)rear SCORHE cameras results in two blobs each of which is in the overlapping
region (highlighted) of their respective cameras (c) and (d), and thus accurately deemed as due to
                                                26

the same mouse (same identity indicated by color coding). The remaining blob 904 (blue color
coded) is due to the mouse appearing in the non-overlapping region.
        [00104] The total count of blobs in both views, as well as their respective region
designation, are processed at 806 and 808 using a set of rules to detect occlusions, where a single
blob encompasses two mice. For example, if a blob 906, as shown in FIG. 17, is determined to
be due to two occluding mice, the severity of the occlusion is assessed by searching for corner
points in the blob, identified as significant inward dents in the blob contour. If no comer point is
found, the occlusion is deemed severe and irresolvable. If, on the other hand, a comer point is
found that qualifies as an occlusion junction 908, as shown in FIG. 17, the blob 906 is split
along a line passing through the corner point and parallel to the radial line of a circle centered at
the centroid of the blob. All pixels on one side of the line are considered to belong to one mouse
902, while pixels on the other side of the line are considered to belong to the other mouse 904. If
each of the two mice are represented by a separate blob, the minimum Euclidean distance
between blob centroids in successive frames is used to assign an identity to the mouse.            If,
however, the mice are represented by a single blob that cannot be resolved into two blobs, the
mice identities are lost.
        [00105] The occlusion reasoning module 224 determines that the sole blob 906 detected
by the segmentation module 218 as two occluding mice 902 and 904. The dotted circle indicates
the comer point regarded as the occlusion junction 908. In one aspect, the occlusion reasoning
module 224 separates the pixels along the line parallel to the radial line of a circle having the
same center as the occluded blob and passing through the comer point.
        [00106] In one aspect, the doubly-housed mice SCORHE method 800 incorporates a
consistency check on the segmentation results. In particular, If the number of detected blobs in a
single view exceeds the number of mice known to be housed in the in the cage, an error is noted.
Similarly, the error is also noted if the total number of blobs across both frames and images, that
have been designated as appearing in a non-overlapping region exceeds the actual number of
mice present in the cage.      In one embodiment, frames that are associated with an error are
reanalyzed, in another embodiment, when an error is noted in both frames (i.e. front and rear
                                                  27

cameras) are simply discarded, and are not used in the subsequent extraction of any mouse
activity measures.
          [00107] The determination of mouse activity measures occurs at blocks 810-814. For
example, a count of the number of mouse rearings is incremented when any part of the blob
crosses a preset vertical threshold boundary 910, as shown in FIG. 18. The vertical crossings
(i.e. rearings) threshold line 910 is superimposed on the image for illustrative purposes. The
threshold boundary was empirically set such that a mouse fully rearing or hanging on the ceiling
would result in the corresponding blob crossing the boundary.            A blob encompassing two
occluding mice, regardless of whether or not the occlusion was resolvable, contributes a single
rearing count if any part of it exceeds the boundary. This approach avoids any over-estimation
in the rearings count.
          [00108] Similarly, a front-to-rear crossings count is incremented when a mouse leaves
the front region of the cage 20 and enters the rear region, and vice versa.              In various
embodiments, the front and rear regions and, respectively, are defined by user-defined
boundaries (e.g., approximately 3 inches from the nearest cage wall), and are separated by a
buffer zone identified a hysteresis region. Mouse motion that does not completely cross the
buffer zone does not contribute to the total front-to-rear crossings count. Contrary to the rearings
measure, the front-to-rear crossings count is doubly incremented if an inseparably occluded blob
moves from one region to the other, since the blob motion is due to the displacement of both
mice.
          [0100]   A side-to-side crossings count is incremented in a similar fashion to the front
to-back crossings count when the blob crosses from the left to right side of the cage, and vice
versa. Here also, the regions are separated by a similar buffer zone, and both mice are accounted
for (i.e., double count) in the case of a single occluded blob crossing.
          [0101]   An inactivity measure is the duration of time the mouse was motionless. The
perimeter of the mouse blob is compared every two seconds. If the number of perimeter pixels
that have changed position is within an empirically set tolerance, the mouse is considered
                                                   28

inactive for two seconds.      An inactive single blob (i.e. deemed as two occluding mice) is
regarded as both mice being inactive.
        Additional Experimental Tests and Results
        [0102]    The following is a description of other studies performed using the SCORHE
10. In particular, three studies, one for singly-housed mice and two studies for doubly-housed
mice were carried out using two SCORHE enclosures 100. For all the studies, the animal facility
daily light cycle was twelve hours of darkness followed by twelve hours of light. All studies
conformed to the guidelines of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Animal Care and Use
Committee (ACUC).
        [0103]    The first study was to compare the mouse activity profiles of singly-housed
ABCB5 knockout (KO) strain and the C57BL/6J wild type (WT) strain. Four months old mice,
five male and five female, of each strain were used. A home-cage with the WT strain was placed
in one of the SCORHE enclosure 100s while the cage housing the KO strain was placed in the
other, both at the start of a dark cycle. Both strains were allowed 24 hours for acclimation, and
subsequently recorded for two full diurnal cycles. The SCORHE video recordings were later
processed to generate the four activity measures discussed in the algorithm description section.
        [0104]    FIGS. 19A-B depict the mouse activity profiles comparison for five sets of
singly-housed wild type C57BL/6J strain and ABCB5 knockout strain. The starting time for
both plots is the dark cycle as indicated by the gray shading. Two of the three output mouse
placement measures of the single mouse processing algorithm (i.e. on-floor, on-hind legs, off
floor) are shown for female KO and WT mice in FIG. 19A a). To compactly display the mouse
placement proportions for both strains (i.e. KO and WT), each bar is formed by stacking the five
day averaged off-floor and on-hind leg placement percentages. The remainder of each hour (i.e.
completing each bar to a full height of 100 percent), although not explicitly shown in the graph,
logically corresponds to mouse on-floor placement. The mouse distance travelled measure in
inches per hour is shown in FIG. 19B. The starting time for both plots is the dark cycle as
indicated by the gray shading 1000.        The overall results, taking into account the five day
variability shown by the standard deviation bars, do not show a clear distinction in activity
                                                 29

profiles between the two strains. The similarity between the activity profiles of the two strains is
useful information in comparing the behavior of these parental and knock-out C57BL6J mice.
         [0105]   The second study was designed to demonstrate the utility of SCORHE in
detecting deviation from a baseline activity profile for doubly-housed mice.              Two mice
(C57BL/J6 wild type strain) housed in a single cage were placed in a SCORHE enclosure 100,
and recorded for three consecutive diurnal cycles. The baseline recordings were processed to
generate a 3-day average of four activity measures: rearings count, inactivity duration, front-to
back crossings, and side-to-side crossings, as shown in FIG. 20. As shown, the SCORHE 10 was
used to identify and measure four behaviors: (a) rearing counts, (b) percentage of time inactive,
(c) front-to-rear crossings count, and (d) side-to-side crossings count. The gray shading 1000 in
the plots indicates the dark cycle.
         [0106]    Subsequently, in order to induce a pronounced effect on activity, the same mice
were subjected to a sedative (0.667mg/Kg dose of acepromazine) at the beginning of the dark
cycle, the time at which the mice normally exhibit high activity levels.        For the three days
following the baseline acquisition, the same sedative dose was administered to both mice in the
cage at the onset of the dark cycle, and a SCORHE recording was started. The SCORHE video
of the sedated mice was acquired only for the dark cycle, a duration sufficient to encompass the
temporal difference in activity levels due to the sedation. The video was processed to extract the
same measures as those of the baseline. The decreased activity in the sedated mice is evident for
the first five hours of the dark cycle. FIG. 21 displays various behaviors after the administration
of a 0.667mg/Kg dose of acepromazine (a tranquilizer) on wild type C57BL/6J strain mice. In
particular, FIG. 21 depicts four behaviors: (a) rearings count (b) percent time inactive (c) front
to-rear crossings and (d) side-to-side crossings. The sedative effect is evident for five hours after
the injection.
         [0107]   The subjects of the third study were HMGN1 over-expresser mice and their
wild-type counterparts.     For each strain, a cage housing two mice was placed in a SCORHE
enclosure 100 for two full 24 hour cycles. The acquired video was processed to obtain the side
to-side and front-to-back crossings counts.        FIG. 22 depicts the two-day averages for the
                                                  30

behaviors of (a) Front-to-back crossings, and (b) Side-to-side crossings in doubly-housed
HMGN1 over-expresser mice (OE) and C57BL/6J wild-type strain mice (WT).
         [0108]  In various other embodiments, the development of more advanced SCORHE
processing algorithms will help mitigate the effects of video blind-spots. For example, the time
spent in the blind-spots could be accounted for by reliably detecting entry into and exit from the
blind-spots.
         [0109]  Extending SCORHE NIR illumination with corresponding grayscale (i.e.,
visible spectrum blocked) video acquisition through the daytime hours allows use of the same
SCORHE video processing algorithm over the complete diurnal cycle.               Use of the same
algorithm ensures seamless video processing across lighting transitions in the animal facility,
which enables robust comparison between night- and day-time activity levels
         [0110]  The SCORHE enclosures 100 installed in National Cancer Institute vivariums
endured prolonged use and required no routine maintenance. Other than opening and closing the
door of the SCORHE enclosure 100 while placing the cage in the rack slot, the SCORHE
enclosure 100 does not alter animal facility procedures.
         [0111]  The Matlab code operates on a single video file in which the front and rear
camera feeds are tiled. For the singly-housed mouse SCORHE algorithm, the video processing
(i.e. segmentation, position classification, and coordinates estimation) rate is approximately 23
frames per second.      The processing algorithm for the doubly-housed mice configuration
produced the mouse activity measures at approximately the same rate as that of the singly
housed mouse. Achieving these processing frame rates demonstrates the potential for migration
to real-time video processing (i.e., without video recording, or with recording solely for
archiving purposes).
         [0112]  The SCORHE methods used to analyze the singly-house mouse videos, though
simple in nature, have an accuracy comparable to that of known academic and commercial
systems such as HomeCageScan for the same measures. The mouse limb placement confusion
matrix as shown in FIG. 13 reveals the highest error rate as that of misclassifying a mouse on its
                                                 31

hind legs as being on the cage floor.       The majority of misclassifications between these two
placement classes result from mouse partial rearings (i.e., when the mouse exhibits a partially
elevated bipedal stance). During these slight partial rearings, the features set derived from the
segmentation results proved insufficient to discriminate the two placement classes. Improved
SCORHE algorithms, such as augmenting the features set, are likely to make the two cases
separable.
         [0113]    Providing a mouse distance travelled measure is mostly found in monitoring
systems with a top-down camera perspective such as the PhenoTyper. The SCORHE validation
system enabled development of an estimation method for coordinates when processing single
mouse video from SCORHE enclosure 100s. The distance estimates, presently, are limited to
motion in one of two planes: the cage floor and the cage ceiling. If a mouse while on its hind
legs moves such that its centroid follows a non-straight path, only the difference between the end
points of the contour contribute to the distance total. No rigorous method is presented here to
ascertain the error resulting from approximating the length of the mouse motion path by the
straight-line distance between corresponding on-floor or on-ceiling end points.           However,
manual visual inspection of segmented SCORHE videos indicates the motion of the mouse
centroid while in a bipedal stance is well accounted for by the aforementioned method.
         [0114]    The SCORHE video analysis for doubly-housed mice confirms the circadian
activity correlation to the vivarium diumal cycle, as shown in FIG. 20, as well as a diminished
activity level due sedation , as shown in FIG. 21.      Furthermore,   the results of the HMGN1
comparison , as shown in FIG. 22 are in agreement with reported results for short monitoring
durations (i.e., 12 hour) using a commercial system. Both our present studies and the previous
analysis indicate that the activity levels of HMGN1 OE mice are significantly higher than those
of wild type controls. Further confidence is gained by manual viewing of the video to confirm
higher mouse activity in dark versus light cycles, as well as in control versus sedated or over
expresser mice. The SCORHE algorithm output measures (e.g. occurrence of a rearing event, a
side-to-side crossing event, or incrementing the inactivity count) were also overlaid as text labels
on the processed video clips to facilitate a manual visual check on the accuracy of the measures.
The visual checks qualitatively validate the algorithm rather than rigorously establish error
                                                 32

bounds. These annotated video clips also proved useful during troubleshooting and optimization
efforts associated with SCORHE algorithm development.             Additional development effort,
beyond the initial demonstration of adequacy of the SCORHE video for processing, is warranted
to enhance the characterization of behavior in the case of doubly-housed mice.
         [0115]    Additional features and elements of the present disclosure including methods,
process, and/or other steps of video processing are disclosed in the attached Appendix. The
contents of which are also incorporated into the written description in its entirety.
         [0116]    Those skilled in the art will appreciate that variations from the specific
embodiments disclosed above are contemplated by the invention. The invention should not be
restricted to the above embodiments, but should be measured by the following claims.
                                                 33

                                               CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A system for monitoring an animal in a home cage, the system comprising:
        a home cage enclosure to enclose the home cage; where the home cage enclosure
comprises:
                a door hingedly engaged to at least one sidewall of the home cage enclosure; a
        front camera engaged to a first lens and the front camera is further engaged to the door;
                a rear camera engaged to a second lens and the rear camera engaged to a rear wall
        of the home cage enclosure, where the rear wall is engaged to the at least one sidewall
        and disposed opposite the door;
                at least one near-infrared light source; and
                a light diffuser.
2.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where the home cage
enclosure further comprises:
        another sidewall disposed generally parallel to the at least one sidewall; and
        a bottom surface engaged to the at least one sidewall, the other sidewall, and the rear
wall.
3.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, wherein the light
diffuser is positioned proximal to the at least one near-infrared light source, such that light
emanating from the at least one near- infrared light source is diffused throughout the interior of
the home cage enclosure.
4.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, wherein the light
diffuser comprises translucent acrylic.
                                                   34

5.       The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where at least one of the
first lens and the second lens is a fish-eye lens.
6.       The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where at least one of the
first camera and the second camera is configured to transmit data over a data network.
7.       The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where at least one of the
first camera and the second camera is a remote head camera.
8.       The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where at least one of the
first camera and the second camera capture data from tag associated with the animal.
9.       The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where the home cage
enclosure further comprises at least one power source to power the front camera and the rear
camera.
10.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where the door of home
cage enclosure further comprises at least one cut-out.
11.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 10, where the at least one
cut-out comprises a transparent material.
12.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, wherein when a home
cage is disposed within the home cage enclosure the front camera is proximal to a front wall of
the home cage and the rear camera is proximal to a rear wall of the home cage.
13.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 11, wherein the front
camera and the rear camera are positioned near a top portion of the front wall and rear wall,
respectively.
                                                   35

14.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, wherein the at least one
near- infrared light source is disposed between a pair of parallel light diffusers and one or more
light-blocking covers.
15.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 14, wherein the at least one
sidewall comprises the at least one near-infrared light source disposed between a pair of parallel
light diffusers and one or more light-blocking covers.
16.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, wherein the at least one
near- infrared light source comprises at least one of a high- flux light emitting diode (LED) strip
or an LED array in communication with a printed circuit board.
17.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where at least one of the
front camera and the rear camera further comprise a light blocking filter.
18.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 17, where the light
blocking filter blocks visible light.
19.      The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 1, where the home
disposed in cage rack.
20.        The system for monitoring an animal in a home cage of claim 19, wherein the home
cage enclosure is compatible with existing structures of the cage rack.
                                                 36

                    
                                                      4
<removed-date>
              56789 675 8             4
                                    
                97 6
<removed-apn>
                                
                 78 678 8               
                                      
               67  6
                                                        
                   56789
                 67
                    5
                                            578 55
                                    4
                 876 55
                   55
                                    4
                    78
                            01234

                                '()*
                                                       
<removed-date>   
                                                         
<removed-apn>
                                              !
                                                        
                               0123
                              "#1$#%#&
                                                   !
                   
                   !
                                                               !
              !
                                                          
                                   0123!      
                                  "#1$#%#&

                            <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                  !
4                                      4   !
                                                         +,-.
                                    !
      4   !           4
                  0123

                                           1234
                    40          40                                   4
<removed-date>
              4
                                                      4
                                                            4%                4%
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   4
                4
              4
                                                     40
                                            44             4          4%
                                                                                    4
                                         0123/%
                    40          40
              4
                                                     4           4
                                                            4%                4%
                                                                                   4
              4
                      4                            40                             4
                                                  4!     4            4%
                            4                                                      4
                                         0123/0

                                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                         4            4    !
4
                                                          4
                                                                   789:
 4                                   4                 4
4    4%           4456    40
                      4!               4        !
              0123

                                        <=>?
                                  4
<removed-date>
                                                           !                 
                4%
<removed-apn>
                   4!                                                             40
                                                                                   
                                                                      4!
                     4!
                                                                
                                         0123;
                                                               
                                                                     0
                                               
              %         0                     %
                                         0123

                            ABCD
                                              4
<removed-date>
                      4
                                   4/%
                                                          4
<removed-apn>
               4
                                                         4
                                                   4/
                                            4/0
                4   4           0123@
              4/

                               FGHF
                                                       
<removed-date>
                           67  6
                                                    4
                          876 5555
                                78                4
                                                      4
                                68                  
<removed-apn>
                        56789 67 5
                                                    4
                               7
                                                    4
                         5  7 7
                                                    
                           655E87
                                                    
                          6778 7
                                                    
                           766 57 7
                                                       
               578 55           78 678 8
                           01234

              IJKL
<removed-date>
                              4
<removed-apn>
                                          /0
                                    /
                       /%
                     012344

                      OPQOR
<removed-date>
              /%                 /0
<removed-apn>
               /M               /N
                         01234
                                  
                      01234!

                    SSTSU
<removed-date>
              ;                  ;
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                             ;
                             ;
                    01234

                          VWXVY
<removed-date>
                                        
<removed-apn>
                                     
                                 
                    4            4     4
                          01234/

                           Z[\Z]
<removed-date>
                             @
                                                           @
                                      @
<removed-apn>
              @
                             @                           @
                     @                             @
                           01234
                                               @
                    @                     @
                                             @
                                   01234;

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    ^_`^a
         @4
01234

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         4
                                           4
                                              bcdbe
01234@

                  <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
4                    4
                                                fghfi
  4                     4
         0123

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    jkljm
01234

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    nopno
0123

