ABSTRACT
The present invention provides shuffle trump cards that do not require taking a long time for
a game organizer to shuffle and has no room in which a dishonesty is involved. A shuffle
machine shuffles trump cards (12) composing the predetermined number of decks to obtain a
set of shuffle trump cards (1). Every set of the shuffle trump cards (1) is individually packed
and is sealed by a seal (13) on which a barcode (13a) indicative of a shuffle trump cards ID is
printed. The shuffle trump cards ID is associated with information possible to specify the
shuffle machine involved in the shuffle of the trump cards and the associated trump cards ID
is registered at a database.

                         DESCRIPTION
  SHUFFLED PLAYING CARDS AND MANUFACTURING METHOD THEREOF
Technical Field
 [0001]
      The present invention relates to playing cards used
for card games, and more particularly, to shuffled
playing cards packaged as an individual pack after being
shuffled in a sufficiently random manner and to a
manufacturing method thereof.
Background Art
 [0002)
      In poker, baccarat, bridge, blackjack, and other
card games, a dealer sets one or more decks of playing
cards in a card shooter or the like and deals cards to
game players by shooting the cards one by one out of the
card shooter or the like.    In so doing, to ensure
fairness of the games, the cards need to be dealt at
random.   Therefore, a game host has to shuffle the
playing cards sufficiently randomly before the playing
cards are set in the card shooter.
[0003]
      A conventional card shuffling apparatus used to
shuffle cards is disclosed, for example, in Patent
Document 1.

                           -2
     Patent Document 1: Japanese Patent Laid-Open No.
2005-198668
Disclosure of the Invention
Problems to be Solved by the Invention
[0004]
     However, when the game host shuffles cards before a
game, the shuffling can sometimes take a lot of time,
hampering efficient operation of the game.  Also, when
the game host shuffles, there is a problem of possible
cheating such as insertion/removal or switching of cards.
[0005]
     The present invention has been made in view of the
above problems and has an object to provide shuffled
playing cards and manufacturing method thereof which
eliminate the need for a game host to shuffle cards
before games by taking a lot of time as well as eliminate
the possibility of cheating.
Means for Solving the Problems
[0006]
     To achieve the above object, the present invention
provides a manufacturing method of shuffled playing cards
characterized by comprising: a shuffling step of
shuffling a predetermined number of decks of playing
cards by a shuffling machine and thereby producing a set
of shuffled playing cards; a packaging step of

                            -3
individually packaging each shuffled playing cards
subjected to the shuffling step; an ID generating step of
creating a different shuffled card ID for each set of
shuffled playing cards subjected to the shuffling step
using an information processor; an ID affixing step of
affixing the shuffled card ID as an ID code to a package
of the shuffled playing cards; and an ID registration
step of registering the shuffled card ID in a database by
associating the shuffled card ID with information which
allows identification of the shuffling machine or a
shuffling machine group involved in the shuffling step of
the shuffled playing cards affixed with the shuffled card
ID.
 [0007]
      The present invention provides shuffled playing
cards which are a predetermined number of decks of
playing cards shuffled and individually packaged,
characterized in that a shuffled card ID for use to
access information in a database is affixed as an ID code
to a package of the shuffled playing cards, where the
information allows identification of a shuffling machine
or a shuffling machine group used to shuffle the shuffled
playing cards.
Advantages of the Invention
[0008]

                             -4
      The present invention can provide shuffled playing
cards which eliminate the need for a game host to shuffle
cards before games by taking a lot of time as well as
eliminate the possibility of cheating.   Also,  since a
shuffled card ID associated with information which allows
identification of the shuffling machine or shuffling
machine group used to shuffle the shuffled playing cards
is affixed to the package, if there is any problem with
playing cards and it is believed that the cause of the
problem lies in a shuffling machine, the manufacturer can
easily identify which shuffling machine or shuffling
machine group has caused the problem and take quick
measures.
Brief Description of the Drawings
 [0009]
      Figures 1(a) and 1(b) are perspective views showing
appearance of a shuffled playing card set   (packaged
individually) according to an embodiment of the present
invention;
      Figure 2 is a diagram showing a schematic
configuration of a shuffling machine used to shuffle
playing cards in a manufacturing process of the shuffled
playing card set according to the embodiment of the
present invention;

                            -5
     Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing part of a
manufacturing line for the shuffled playing card set
according to the embodiment of the present invention;
     Figure 4 is a diagram showing a variation of a
schematic configuration of the shuffling machine
according to the embodiment of the present invention; and
     Figure 5 is a diagram showing how an image used to.
check the number of playing cards is shot in the
manufacturing process of the shuffled playing card set
according to the embodiment of the present invention.
Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
[0010]
     An embodiment of shuffled playing cards and
manufacturing method thereof according to the present
invention will be described below with reference to the
drawings.
[0011)
     Figures 1(a) and 1(b) are perspective views showing
appearance of a shuffled playing card set   (packaged
individually) according to one embodiment of the present
invention.  As shown in  Figures 1(a) and 1(b),   the
shuffled playing card set 1 according to the present
embodiment is sufficiently shuffled playing cards encased
in a paper box 11 whose lid is sealed with an adhesive
label 13.  A predetermined number of decks   (e.g.,   four
decks or eight decks) form a set according to the type of

                             6
game or the like in which the playing cards 12 are used.
Incidentally, although a paper box is used for packaging
in this example, the type of packaging is not limited to
this.   For example, a plastic box may be used
alternatively.   Instead of a box, the playing cards may
be wrapped with a wrapper such as paper or plastic film
and sealed with an adhesive label.    The point is  that the
packaging can prevent the seal from being broken open
before a game with subsequent cheating such as arranging
cards in a different sequence, inserting or removing
cards, or marking cards in some way or other.
 [0012]
      A bar code 13a and specification table 13b are
printed on the adhesive label 13.   As described in detail
later, the bar code 13a represents an ID (shuffled card
ID) which can uniquely identify the shuffled playing card
set 1.   The specification table 13b, which is not
absolutely necessary, can contain any information about
the playing cards, such as a serial number, a product
number, a product name, a color, and a date of
manufacture.
[0013]
      As can be seen from Figures 1(a) and 1(b),   since the
shuffled playing card set 1 has a mouth of the lid of the
paper box 11 sealed with the adhesive label 13, in order
to use the shuffled playing card set 1, the adhesive
label 13 has to be removed or broken.    To prevent

                            -7
cheating, preferably the adhesive label 13 is made of a
material which, once peeled off, cannot be returned to
its original attached state or is configured to be broken
at least partially upon application of an external force
tending to peel off the adhesive label 13.
[0014]
     As described above, since the shuffled playing card
set 1 according to the present embodiment contains
shuffled playing cards 12 shuffled in a sufficiently
random manner and packaged individually in the paper box
11 sealed with the adhesive label 13, in order to use the
shuffled playing card set 1 in a game, it is only
necessary to open the paper box 11 and set the playing
cards 12 promptly in a shooter.  This eliminates the need
for a game host to shuffle the playing cards.   It also
eliminates the possibility of cheating such as
insertion/removal or switching of cards during shuffling.
[0015]
     Next, the manufacturing method of the shuffled
playing card set 1 according to the present embodiment
will be described.
[0016)
     Preferably, a manufacturing process of the shuffled
playing card set 1 according to the present embodiment is
placed under consistent process control from order
receipt to shipment by means of a process control system.

                            -8
A manufacturing process which uses such a process control
system will be described in the present embodiment.
 [0017]
      First, when an order is received from a customer, a
manufacturer of the shuffled playing card set 1 assigns
and enters an order receipt number in the process control
system.   The order receipt number may be assigned and
entered using any desired method, and may be assigned
automatically by the process control system.
 [0018]
      As in the case of conventional playing cards, the
shuffled playing card set 1 according to the present
embodiment is manufactured using playing cards created
through processes in which suit and rank are printed on
one side of card base paper, a design is printed on the
other side, and the printed card base paper is cut into
individual cards on a cutting machine.    Then, a
predetermined number of decks of the playing cards are
grouped together according to the application of the
playing cards (depending on what game the playing cards
will be used in),  shuffled sufficiently randomly,
packaged as an individual pack, and sealed to produce the
shuffled playing card set 1 described above.
[0019]
      Before printing the card base paper, the
manufacturer of the shuffled playing card set 1 enters
base paper information   (e.g., maker, product name,

                             -9
purchase date, paper lot number, and the like) in the
process control system.    In a printing process, the
manufacturer of the shuffled playing card set 1 enters
printing process information (printing machine number,
printing date/time, lot number, and the like) in the
process control system.    Additionally,  in a cutting
process, the manufacturer of the shuffled playing card
set 1 enters cutting process information     (cutting machine
number, cutting date/time, lot number, and the like) in
the process control system.     Consequently, predetermined
information out of information entered in each process is
associated with the shuffled card ID in a database of the
process control system as described later.
 [0020]
      Next, a shuffling process according to one
embodiment of the present invention will be described.
 [0021]
      Figure 2 is a diagram showing a schematic
configuration of a shuffling machine 100 used to shuffle
playing cards in the manufacturing process of the
shuffled playing card set 1 according to the present
embodiment.   As shown in  Figure 2,  the shuffling machine
100 includes a card stack holder 101, a card feeder 102,
a slide rail 103, feeder travel rollers 104, a card
delivery roller 105, a camera 106 (or a card sensor 109
described later),   and an image processing unit 108.
[0022]

                              - 10
      The card stack holder 101 has multiple pockets 101a
to 101g.   Incidentally,   although in the configuration
shown as an example in Figure 2, the card stack holder
101 has seven pockets, the card stack holder 101 may have
any number of pockets.    Movable partition plates 107a to
107f are installed between the pockets.     The card feeder
102 is designed such that when all the playing cards to
be shuffled are placed on the card feeder 102, the card
delivery roller 105 on the bottom rotates, sending out a
card c from the lowermost part of the card feeder 102
toward the card stack holder 101 through a card delivery
port provided in a lower flank of the card feeder 102.
Also, the card feeder 102 is configured to be slidable in
a vertical   (up and down) direction along the slide rail
103 by means of the feeder travel rollers 104 driven by
drive means such as a motor (not shown).
 [0023]
      With the configuration described above, the
shuffling machine 100 alternately slides the card feeder
102 to a position facing any of the pockets 101a to 101g
and sends out the card c from the card feeder 102 to the
pocket.   Incidentally,  the shuffling machine 100
determines the position to move the card feeder 102 to,
i.e., the position facing one of the pockets 101a to 101g,
at random using a random number generator program or the
like.   Consequently, the cards loaded in the card feeder
102 is sent out one by one in a random order to the

                           -  11
pockets 101a to 101g of the card stack holder 101.     When
all the cards loaded in the card feeder 102 are sent out
to the card stack holder 101, the partition plates 107a
to 107f recede from the inside of the card stack holder
101 and consequently cards sorted into the pockets 101a
to 101g of the card stack holder 101 are taken out of the
shuffling machine 100 as a single stack.     However, the
receding of the pockets 101a to 101g is not absolutely
necessary, and any alternative means may be used.     For
example, the cards may be taken out of the pockets 101a
to 101g using a robot arm or the like.    The above is  a
single shuffling process performed by the shuffling
machine 100.   After going through the shuffling process,
a set of playing cards loaded in the card feeder 102 are
shuffled to some extent.   If  the card feeder 102 is
controlled so as to slide in a highly random manner, a
set of playing cards loaded in the card feeder 102 can be
shuffled sufficiently randomly after the shuffling
machine 100 performs the shuffling process only once.
However, as described later, if multiple shuffling
machines 100 performing such a shuffling process are used
to perform the shuffling process in sequence, the
shuffled playing cards can be ordered more randomly.
[0024]
     The playing cards are loaded in the card feeder 102
with the face (side on which suit and rank are printed)
down  (to the side of the camera 106).   Each time a card c

                                          - 12
 is sent out           from the card feeder              102 to the card stack
holder         101,    the camera       106 shoots an image of the card c.
The     resulting         image is     sent      to   the  image processing          unit
108.        Functions          of the   camera        106   and image     processing
unit       108     vary among the           shuffling machines            100    depending
on the position of the                 shuffling machines             100 on a
manufacturing             line described below.
  [0025]
          Figure 3 is          a  schematic       diagram      showing part      of   a
manufacturing             line     for the     shuffled      playing    card    set    1
according           to  the present        embodiment.          The manufacturing
line      includes       multiple      shuffling        machines      100 configured
as described above and arranged in a sequence.
 Incidentally, although a manufacturing                            line with two
shuffling          machines        100  (shuffling        machines     100a and 100b)
is shown as an example                 in Figure 3,          the number of
shuffling machines                 100 is not        limited to this and may be
one, or more than two.                   The shuffling          machine    100a is
configured as             shown in Figure 2, but the shuffling
machine         100b is        equipped with a          card sensor      109 instead
of the camera             106.      The card sensor 109 has the
capability to count the number of cards passing above the
sensor.
  [0026]
         As shown in Figure 3, first, a set of playing cards made
up of a predetermined number of decks is                          loaded into a first
card        feeder       102a      of   the      shuffling        machine    100a.       The

                                - 13
set  of playing   cards  subjected      to  the  shuffling  process
by the  shuffling machine 100a       is   loaded  into a   second
card feeder   102b of the   shuffling machine 100b.         The
sliding  of the  card   feeders   102a and 102b on the
shuffling machines 100a and 100b are controlled
independently   of each   other.     After being     subjected  to
the shuffling process     twice by      the shuffling machines
100a and 100b,   the playing     cards are     shuffled  more
randomly.
 [0027]
     An image of a card surface shot by the camera 106 on
the shuffling machine 100a is subjected to an image
analysis process by the image processing unit 108 of the
process control system which manages the manufacturing
line including the shuffling machines 100a and 100b, and
consequently the suit and rank are detected on the card
sent out from the card feeder 102 to the card stack
holder 101.    That is, on the shuffling machine 100a, each
time a card is sent out from the card feeder 102 to the
card stack holder 101, the rank and suit on the card are
detected, and when the entire set of cards loaded in the
card feeder 102 is sent out to the card stack holder 101,
it is checked whether or not there is any excess or
deficiency in the rank and suit combinations contained in
the set of cards.     For example, a set of cards made up of
six decks should contain six each of identical cards in
terms of the rank and suit combination.            If there is any
excess or deficiency in the rank and suit combinations,

                          - 14
the set of cards is discarded as a defective item.   In
addition to the rank and suit checking, the image
processing unit 108 inspects each card for any smudge and
inspects a pattern of a back design and the like as well
as inspects whether or not the cards have been cut
properly and whether or not each card complies with
predetermined standards.  Any set of cards containing
defects is discarded.
[0028]
     Being installed on the shuffling machine 100b which
performs the shuffling process the second time, the card
sensor 109 counts the number of cards passing above the
card sensor 109.  If three or more shuffling machines are
used, preferably the card sensor 109 is installed on the
third and subsequent shuffling machines.   In this way,
the shuffling machine 100b checks the number of cards in
the set of cards to be shuffled and thereby inspects the
final product for excess or deficiency of cards.   On the
shuffling machine 100a which performs the shuffling
process the first time, preferably both sides of the card
is inspected simultaneously by installing a mirror 110 as
shown in Figure 4 so that the back side  (patterned side)
of the card will face the camera 106 or by installing
another camera (not shown) which will photograph the back
side of the card.
[0029]

                           -  15
      When the shuffling machine 100b which performs the
final shuffling process finishes shuffling, the shuffling
machine 100b outputs a shuffle-complete    signal. Upon
detection of the shuffle-complete signal, the process
control system generates a shuffled card ID to be
assigned to the set of shuffled playing cards completed
through the final shuffling process.    The shuffled card
ID is generated as a unique ID for each shuffled playing
card set 1.   The process control system associates the
generated shuffled card ID with predetermined information
out of production information stored in the database of
the process control system.    Any desired type and volume
of such information may be used, but information which
identifies the manufacturing line or shuffling machines
involved in the shuffling process is particularly
important.
 [0030]
      Specifically, if there are multiple manufacturing
lines, the manufacturer of the shuffled playing card set
1 according to the present embodiment assigns a unique
manufacturing line ID to each manufacturing line in
advance.   Then, upon generation of a shuffled card ID,
the process control system registers the generated
shuffled card ID in the database by associating the
shuffled card ID with the manufacturing line ID of the
manufacturing line involved in the manufacture of the
shuffled playing cards.   However,  IDs are not limited to

                             - 16
  such manufacturing line-related IDs.   Alternatively,  a
  shuffling machine ID may be assigned to each shuffling
  machine in advance and the shuffled card ID may be
  registered in the database by being associated with all
  the shuffling machine IDs involved in the shuffling
  process.   Incidentally, the database may be provided
  either in or outside the process control system.
   [0031]
        The generated shuffled card ID is printed on the
  adhesive label as a bar code by a printing machine.    Then,
  the adhesive label 13 on which the bar code of the
  shuffled card ID is printed is used to seal the paper box
  11 as shown in Figure 1(a).
   [0032]
        As a variation of the present embodiment, a process
  for shooting an image of the playing cards 12 encased in
  the paper box 11 may be added before the paper box 11 is
  sealed with the adhesive label 13.   According to the
  variation, the set of playing cards 12 completed by going
  through the final shuffling process is encased in the
  paper box 11 with a side face up as shown in Figure 5.
. Then, with the lid of the paper box 11 open, an image of
  the playing cards 12 encased in the paper box 11 is shot
  by a digital camera 111 as shown in Figure 5.   During
  shooting, preferably the bar code of the shuffled card ID
  is shot together in the same image.   For example, in
  addition to the adhesive label 13 used to seal the paper

                           - 17
box 11, one more adhesive label may be prepared, with the
bar code of the same shuffled card ID printed thereon.
Then, the additional adhesive label can be pasted on an
inner side or the like of the lid of the paper box 11 and
shot together with the playing cards 12.    Image data
resulting from the shooting is saved in a storage device
112 at least temporarily and then registered in the
database by being associated with the shuffled card ID.
Immediately after shooting, the paper box 11 is sealed
with the adhesive label 13.   Incidentally, although in
the example shown in Figure 5, an image is shot with the
lid of the paper box 11 open, the form of image shooting
for the purpose of checking the number of cards is not
limited to this.  For example,  slits or the like may be
formed in the lid of the paper box 11 so that the number
of cards can be checked even when the lid is closed, and
after the lid is closed and sealed, an image may be taken
through the slits  to check the number of cards.   The
slits may be sealed after the shooting, for example,
using a sealing label other than the adhesive label 13 or
using an outer lid.
[0033]
     The image data is used to prove later that a
predetermined number of playing cards 12   (e.g., 416 cards
in the case of an 8-deck shuffled playing cards) were all
present when the paper box 11 was sealed.    Otherwise, if
the playing cards 12 are found to be excessive or

                            - 18
deficient when the cards are used, it is not clear
whether someone with malicious intent cheated by
removing/slipping in cards or there were manufacturing
defects in the first place.    By acquiring and saving
image data of the playing cards 12 at the time of sealing
as with the present variation, it is possible to prove
that there was no manufacturing defect.    To judge the
number of playing cards from the image data, image
processing is  carried out.   That is, in the case of
playing cards used, for example, in casinos and the like,
to prevent suit and rank from being seen through the back,
each card generally has a multilayered structure with
black paper and the like being used as an intermediate
layer.  Consequently,  the total number of playing cards
12 can be checked by image processing which detects the
black paper or a white portion adjoining the black paper
using image data.   In the case of cards which do not have
an intermediate layer or whose intermediate layer cannot
be seen from the side, the total number of playing cards
12 can be checked by performing image processing to
detect gaps between stacked playing cards using image
data.  Therefore,  according to the present variation,
preferably the image data acquired by shooting has a
resolution high enough to enable image processing such as
described above.
[0034]

                             ~ 19
      As described above, by registering the shuffled card
ID of the shuffled playing card set 1 in the database by
associating the shuffled card ID with the IDs of the
manufacturing line or shuffling machine involved in the
manufacture of the shuffled playing card set 1 (and with
photographic image data such as described above, is
necessary),   the present embodiment provides the following
advantages.
 (0035]
      For example, if a customer who has purchased a
shuffled playing card set 1 notices any defect in the
purchased cards, the customer informs the manufacturer of
the shuffled playing card set 1 about the shuffled card
ID.   In so doing, the customer may send the adhesive
label 13 on which the bar code of the shuffled card ID is
printed to the manufacturer so that the manufacturer will
read the shuffled card ID using a barcode reader.
Alternatively, the customer may read the shuffled card ID
using a barcode reader or the like and send the obtained
data to the manufacturer via communications means such as
e-mail.   Consequently,  by searching the database using
the shuffled card ID, the manufacturer can identify a
manufacturing line or shuffling machine that may have a
problem.   In such a case,  the manufacturer can alert
customers about the shuffled playing card sets 1
manufactured on the same manufacturing line or shuffling
machine in the same period and take measures, if

                           - 20
necessary, such as requesting the customers to discard
the product or recalling the product.    Also,   by
inspecting the identified manufacturing line or shuffling
machine, the manufacturer can prevent a recurrence of the
defect.
 [0036]
      Also, the manufacturer may deliver the shuffled
playing card set 1 to the customer together with a
portable storage medium containing data (shuffled card ID
and related information) on the shuffled playing card set
1 to be delivered by downloading the data from the
database at the time of delivery.    Any data structure
 (format) may be used for the data downloaded from the
database to the storage medium as long as the data is
readable on the customer's computer.    Then,  if   the
customer finds a defect such as a bent card, the customer
can read the shuffled card ID of the defective shuffled
playing card set 1 using a barcode reader or the like and
search data on the storage medium based on the shuffled
card ID thus acquired.   Also, based on search results,
the customer can take measures such as discarding
shuffled playing card sets 1 related to the same
manufacturing  line or shuffling machine.   Besides,    even
if fraudulent shuffled playing card sets 1 are mixed in
items delivered to the customer, the customer can check
the shuffled card IDs of the delivered items with the
shuffled card IDs stored in   the storage medium.     Then,

                            - 21
any shuffled playing card set 1 whose shuffled card ID is
not contained in the storage medium provided at the time
of delivery can be determined to have been mixed for
fraudulent purposes.   This prevents mixing of fraudulent
items by a third party.
 [0037]
      Although in the embodiment described above, the
manufacturing line ID or the shuffling machine ID of the
shuffling machine that performed the shuffling process is
stored in the database by being associated with the
shuffled card ID, information to be associated with the
shuffled card ID is  not limited to this.   For example, in
the above embodiment, the camera 106 is incorporated in
the shuffling machine 100 and the image analysis process
is performed by the image processing unit 108
simultaneously with shuffling to inspect whether or not
all  the cards are present.   However, as a variation,
inspection machines including the camera 106 and image
processing unit 108 may be installed downstream of each
shuffling process, so that the cards having completed
shuffling by the shuffling machines 100a and 100b can be
inputted in the inspection machines to inspect whether or
not all  the cards are present.   In that case, an
inspection machine ID may be assigned to each inspection
machine in advance and associated with the shuffled card
ID assigned to each shuffled playing card set 1.
[0038]

                           -  22
     Besides, various information can be associated with
the shuffled card ID, including an ID of the printing
machine involved in the printing process, an ID of the
cutting machine involved in the cutting process, an ID of
the packaging machine involved in a packaging process, a
lot number of the base paper, a manufacturing date, a
manufacturing date/time, a card type ID, and a customer
ID.  In that case, the information can be registered in
the database by being associated with the shuffled card
ID containing the information.
[0039]
     In the above embodiment, the paper box 11 is sealed
with the adhesive label 13 on which the shuffled card ID
is printed as a bar code.    However, forms of the present
invention are not limited to this.    The shuffled card ID
may be affixed to the package as a two-dimensional matrix
code such as a so-called QR code.    Also, the shuffled
card ID may be recorded somewhere other than the sealing
label.  That is, a method which records the shuffled card
ID directly on the package may also be adopted.    For
example, the shuffled card ID can be affixed to the
package by laser irradiation or the like.    It is also
preferable to attach the shuffled card ID to the package
as a PFID or RFID (so-called IC tag).
[0040]
     Furthermore, although in the present embodiment, one
shuffled card ID is assigned to one shuffled card set 1,

                           - 23
a unique ID may be assigned, for example, to each carton
packed with multiple shuffled card sets 1. Alternatively,
a unique ID may be assigned to each container used to
transport multiple cartons.   Even in  these cases, if the
ID is registered in the database, when any defect is
found later, by searching the database based on the ID,
it is possible to trace manufacturing and distribution
history of the defective product.
 [0041]
      For example, in a cartoning process, a predetermined
number of shuffled card sets 1 (boxes) are packed in a
carton.   In so doing, by reading the bar codes 13a of the
shuffled card sets 1 packed in the carton using a barcode
reader, the shuffled card IDs of the shuffled card sets 1
in the carton can be registered easily in the database of
the process control system.   After the bar codes 13a are
read from all the shuffled card sets 1 in the carton, the
process control system may generate an ID (carton ID) for
use to identify the carton and print a bar code which
represents the carton ID on an adhesive label.    The
adhesive label, when pasted to the carton, will enable
carton-based management.   The generated carton ID is
registered in the database by being associated with the
shuffled card IDs of the shuffled card sets 1 packed in
the carton.
[0042]

                           - 24
     Similarly, when a predetermined number of cartons
are loaded on a pallet and multiple pallets are put in a
container, the carton IDs may be read from all the
cartons loaded on one pallet using a barcode reader and
the acquired carton IDs may be registered in the database
of the process control system by being associated with an
ID (pallet ID)  for use to identify the pallet.  In that
case, after the bar codes are read from all the cartons
on one pallet, the process control system generates an ID
 (pallet ID) for use to identify the pallet and prints the
bar code which represents the pallet ID on an adhesive
label.  The adhesive label, when pasted to the pallet,
will enable pallet-based management.   When the pallet is
loaded in the container, the use of the pallet's bar code
makes it possible to record which container the pallet is
loaded in.
[0043]
     When the loading into the container is completed,
shipment information (customer name, shipment date,
destination, transport company, type of delivery service,
and the like) by the pallet or container is inputted in
the process control system.
[0044]
     Thus, in addition to attaching the shuffled card ID
to packages, if a carton ID or pallet ID are attached to
cartons or pallets, the shuffled playing cards can be
managed on a carton-by-carton basis or pallet-by-pallet

                            - 25
basis.   Specifically,  for example, if any defect is found
in a shuffled card set 1, the database can be searched
for the IDs of the carton, pallet, and container in which
the shuffled card set 1 was contained, based on the
shuffled card ID of the shuffled card set 1.    This also
makes it possible to discard all the shuffled card sets 1
in the carton, pallet, or container in which the
defective shuffled card set 1 was contained.
 [0045]
      The shuffling machine 100 illustrated in the above
embodiment is strictly exemplary, and concrete
configuration of the shuffling machine is not limited to
the above example.    For example, in the above, although
the card feeder 102 is configured to move by sliding, the
card feeder 102 may be fixed, being configured such that
the card stack holder 101 will slide relative to the card
feeder 102.   Also, the configuration for sending out the
card from the card feeder 102 is not limited to delivery
rollers such as described above, and a mechanism such as
a robot arm may be used to take out the card.
 [0046]
      Also, although in the above embodiment, the
shuffling machine 100b issues a shuffled card ID in
response to a shuffle-complete signal, the timing to
issue the shuffled card ID is not limited to this.    For
example,  the shuffled card ID may be issued   at any time
such as at the end of an inspection process.

                           - 26
 [0047)
      An embodiment of the present invention has been
described above, and the scope of the present invention
also covers the following annexes.
 [0048]
      [Annex 1]
      A playing card manufacturing method comprising a
manufacturing process including:
      a face printing step of printing rank and suit of
playing cards on one side of base paper;
      a back side printing step of printing a back design
on another side of the base paper;
      a step of cutting a card base paper printed in both
the face printing step and the back side printing step
into individual playing cards on a cutting machine;
      a shuffling step of gathering the individual playing
cards cut in the cutting step into a predetermined number
of decks and shuffling the playing cards to produce a set
of shuffled playing cards; and
      a packaging step of packaging the individual
shuffled playing cards produced in the shuffling step,
      characterized in that a different shuffled card ID
is created for each of the individual shuffled playing
cards using an information processor in response to a
shuffle completion signal from a shuffling machine which
carries out the shuffling step,

                          - 27
     the playing card manufacturing method further
comprises an ID affixing step of affixing the shuffled
card ID as an ID code to a package of the individual
shuffled playing cards, and
   . the shuffled card ID represented by the ID code is
configured in a database by being associated with
information about the shuffling machine involved in the
shuffling step of the corresponding individual shuffled
playing cards or information about a production line
including the shuffling machine and involved in the
manufacturing process, and the database is configured so
as to allow identification of the shuffling machine or
the production line including the shuffling machine based
on the shuffled card ID, the shuffling machine having
been involved in the shuffling step in the manufacturing
process of the individual playing cards which make up the
individual shuffled playing cards.
[0049]
     [Annex 2]
     A playing card manufacturing method comprising a
manufacturing process including:
     a face printing step of printing rank and suit of
playing cards on one side of base paper;
     a back side printing step of printing a back design
on another side of the base paper;

                          - 28
     a step of cutting a card base paper printed in both
the face printing step and the back side printing step
into individual playing cards on a cutting machine;
     a shuffling step of gathering the individual playing
cards cut in the cutting step into a predetermined number
of decks and shuffling the playing cards to produce a set
of shuffled playing cards; and
     an inspection step of performing an inspection using
an inspection machine during or after the shuffling step
to ensure that the individual playing cards in the
predetermined number of decks which make up the shuffled
playing cards are all present;
     a packaging step of packaging the individual
shuffled playing cards produced in the shuffling step,
     characterized in that a different shuffled card ID
is created for each of the individual shuffled playing
cards using an information processor in response to an
acceptance signal given by the inspection machine in the
inspection step,
     the playing card manufacturing method further
comprises an ID affixing step of affixing the shuffled
card ID as an ID code to a package of the individual
shuffled playing cards, and
     the shuffled card ID is configured in a database by
being associated with information about the inspection
machine involved in the inspection step of the
corresponding individual shuffled playing cards or

                           - 29
information about a production line including the
inspection machine and involved in the manufacturing
process, and the database is configured so as to allow
identification of the inspection machine or the
production line including the inspection machine based on
the shuffled card ID, the inspection machine having been
involved in the inspection step in the manufacturing
process of the individual playing cards which make up the
individual shuffled playing cards.
 [0050]
      [Annex 3]
      The playing card manufacturing method according to
annex 1 or 2, further comprising a step of inputting data
which identifies a printing machine used in at least one
of the face printing step and the back side printing step,
in the information processor, characterized in that
      the information about the production line which
performs the manufacturing process for the individual
shuffled playing cards includes the data which identifies
the printing machine, and the database is configured so
as to allow identification of the printing machine used
in the production line for the individual playing cards
which make up the individual shuffled playing cards,
based on the shuffled card ID.
[0051]
      [Annex 4]

                          - 30
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
annex 1 or 2, characterized in that the information about
the production line which performs the manufacturing
process for the individual shuffled playing cards
includes a lot number of the base paper used in the face
printing step or the back side printing step, and the
database is configured so as to allow identification of
the lot number corresponding to the individual playing
cards which make up the individual shuffled playing cards,
based on the shuffled card ID which identifies the
individual shuffled playing cards.
[0052]
      [Annex 5]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 4, characterized in that the
predetermined number of decks which make up the
individual shuffled playing cards is any of 1 to 10.
[0053]
      [Annex 6]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 5, further comprising a step of
packing a plurality of the packaged individual shuffled
playing cards into a transport box, wherein different
transport box data is created for each of the transport
boxes; the playing card manufacturing method further
comprises a step of affixing the corresponding transport
box data as an ID code on a surface of the transport box;

                          - 31
and the transport box data is included in the database by
being associated with the shuffled card IDs which
identify the shuffled playing cards in the transport box.
[0054]
      [Annex 7]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 6, characterized in that the ID
code further contains any of manufacturing date,
manufacturing date/time, product type, and customer
information concerning the shuffled playing cards
identified by the shuffled card ID.
[0055]
      [Annex 8]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 7, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in barcode
format to the corresponding package of the shuffled
playing cards.
[0056]
      [Annex 9]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 7, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in QR code
(two-dimensional matrix code) format to the corresponding
package of the shuffled playing cards.
[0057]
     [Annex 10]

                          - 32
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 7, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in PFID
format to the corresponding package of the shuffled
playing cards.
[0058]
     [Annex 11]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 1 to 7, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in IC tag
format to the corresponding package of the shuffled
playing cards.
[0059]
     [Annex 12]
     Shuffled playing cards manufactured in a
manufacturing process which includes:
     a face printing step of printing rank and suit of
playing cards on one side of base paper;
     a back side printing step of printing a back design
on another side of the base paper;
     a step of cutting a card base paper printed in both
the face printing step and the back side printing step
into individual playing cards on a cutting machine;
     a shuffling step of gathering the individual playing
cards cut in the cutting step into a predetermined number
of decks and shuffling the playing cards to produce a set
of shuffled playing cards; and

                          - 33
     a packaging step of packaging the individual
shuffled playing cards produced in the shuffling step,
     characterized in that a shuffled card ID created for
each individual shuffled playing cards in response to a
shuffling step completion signal from the shuffling step
is attached to the corresponding package of the
individual shuffled playing cards, where the shuffled
card ID differs among individual shuffled playing cards,
     the shuffled card ID is configured in a database by
being associated with information about the shuffling
machine involved in the shuffling step of the
corresponding individual shuffled playing cards or
information about a production line including the
shuffling machine and involved in the manufacturing
process, allowing identification of the shuffling machine
or the production line including the shuffling machine,
the shuffling machine having been involved in the
shuffling step in the manufacturing process of the
individual playing cards which make up the individual
shuffled playing cards.
[0060]
     [Annex 13]
     Shuffled playing cards manufactured in a
manufacturing process which includes:
     a face printing step of printing rank and suit of
playing cards on one side of base paper;

                          - 34
     a back side printing step of printing a back design
on another side of the base paper;
     a step of cutting the card base paper printed in
both the face printing step and the back side printing
step into individual playing cards on a cutting machine;
     a shuffling step of gathering the individual playing
cards cut in the cutting step into a predetermined number
of decks and shuffling the playing cards to produce a set
of shuffled playing cards; and
     an inspection step of performing an inspection using
an inspection machine during or after the shuffling step
to ensure that the individual playing cards in the
predetermined number of decks which make up the shuffled
playing cards are all present; and
     a packaging step of packaging the individual
shuffled playing cards produced in the shuffling step,
     characterized in that a shuffled card ID created for
each individual shuffled playing cards in response to an
acceptance signal given by the inspection machine in the
inspection step is attached to the corresponding package
of the individual shuffled playing cards, where the
shuffled card ID differs among individual shuffled
playing cards,
     the shuffled card ID is configured in a database by
being associated with information about the inspection
machine involved in the inspection step of the
corresponding individual shuffled playing cards or

                          - 35
information about a production line including the
inspection machine and involved in the manufacturing
process, allowing identification of the inspection
machine or the production line including the inspection
machine, the inspection machine having been involved in
the inspection step in the manufacturing process of the
individual playing cards which make up the individual
shuffled playing cards
[0061]
     [Annex 14]
     The shuffled playing cards according to annex 12 or
13, characterized in that the ID code further contains
any of manufacturing date, manufacturing date/time,
product type, and customer information concerning the
shuffled playing cards identified by the shuffled card ID.
[0062]
     [Annex 15]
     The shuffled playing cards according to according to
any one of annexes 12 to 14, characterized in that the
predetermined number of decks is any of 1 to 10.
[0063]
     [Annex 16]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 12 to 15, characterized in that the ID
code which represents the shuffled card ID is attached in
barcode format or two-dimensional matrix code format

                          - 36
(such as QR code format) to the corresponding package of
the shuffled playing cards.
[0064]
     [Annex 17]
     The shuffled playing cards according to annex 16,
characterized in that the ID code is printed on a label,
which is attached to the package of the shuffled playing
cards.
[0065]
      [Annex 18]
     The shuffled playing cards according to annex 16,
characterized in that the ID code is attached to the
package of the individual shuffled playing cards using a
laser beam.
[0066]
     [Annex 19]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 12 to 15, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in PFID
format to the corresponding package of the shuffled
playing cards.
[0067]
     [Annex 20]
     The playing card manufacturing method according to
any one of annexes 12 to 15, wherein the ID code which
represents the shuffled card ID is attached in IC tag

                           - 37
format to the corresponding package of the shuffled
playing cards.
 [0068]
       [Annex 21]
      The shuffled playing cards according to any one of
annexes 12 to 20, wherein a tamper-evident adhesive label
is attached to the package of the individual shuffled
playing cards.
Industrial Applicability
[0069]
      The present invention has industrial applicability
in the field of shuffled playing cards and a
manufacturing method thereof.

                                  - 38
Claims:
1.        A method of manufacturing shuffled playing cards,            the
method having the steps of:
          generating   individual playing cards;
          randomly shuffling the playing cards using at          least a
first     step and a second step,   wherein the first    step comprises
feeding the cards to multiple pockets, and the second step
comprises taking the cards from the multiple pockets;              and
          packaging a set of the shuffled playing cards into one
package,
          wherein the set   of the shuffled playing cards is     encased
in the package with a side face up.
2.        The method of manufacturing of claim 1,     wherein the first
step is      functionally independent of the second step.
3.        The method of manufacturing of claim 1 further     comprising
inspecting the card to determine whether or not the card has
been cut or printed properly.
4.        The method of manufacturing of claim 3 further     comprising
rejecting      a card   determined   to be not  properly     cut  or not
properly printed.
5.        The method of manufacturing of claim 1 further     comprising
packaging a set     of the shuffled playing cards into     one package.
6.        The  method  of  manufacturing   of  claim   1,   wherein    the
playing cards are shuffled at       random using a random generator.

                             -  39
7.    The method of manufacturing of claim 3, wherein a back
design of the card is inspected in the inspection step.
8.    The method of manufacturing of claim 1 further    having a
checking  step for  checking   whether there is  any  excess  or
deficiency in the set of shuffled playing cards.
9.    The method of manufacturing of claim 3, further having
a card discarding step wherein a defective card is   discarded.
10.   The method of manufacturing of claim 5, further having
a shuffled card ID generating step wherein a shuffled card ID
is provided to the package.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+260E>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
