                                        ABSTRACT
  Provided are methods for treating calcium malabsorption and conditions associated with
  calcium malabsorption, employing the administration of a composition containing stable
  amorphous calcium carbonate. Further provided are methods for increasing bone mineral
5 density in a bone metabolism associated disorders, diseases or conditions, employing the
     administration of said composition in combination with a bone resorption inhibitor.

                                                    1
     AMORPHOUS CALCIUM CARBONATE FOR THE TREATMENT OF CALCIUM
                MALABSORPTION AND METABOLIC BONE DISORDERS
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention relates to natural and synthetic amorphous calcium carbonate
   compositions for use in treatment of calcium malabsorption, and malabsorption associated
   disorders, diseases and conditions, and for increasing bone mineral density in calcium
   malabsorption and bone metabolism associated disorders.
10 BACKGROUND
   Calcium is considered to be one of the most important minerals in the human body. It is
   required   for   maintaining   bone    mineral   density,   is  essential  for   exocytosis   of
   neurotransmitters, takes part in the contraction of muscle cells, replaces sodium as the
   depolarizing mineral in the heart, and participates in many other physiological functions.
15 Calcium gastrointestinal absorption depends not only on the dietary calcium availability but
   on the absorptive capacity of the intestines, which is affected by physiological factors such as
   calcium reserves, hormonal regulation or previous dietary calcium supply. Dissolution of
   calcium salts (e.g. calcium carbonate) in the stomach is one step in the proper active and
   passive absorption of calcium as a calcium ion (Ca(2t .) in the proximal small intestine.
20 Stomach acid markedly increases dissolution and ionization of poorly soluble calcium salts.
   If acid is not properly secreted, calcium salts are minimally dissolved (ionized) and,
   subsequently, may not be properly and effectively absorbed. Atrophic gastritis, gastric
   surgery, and high-dose, long-term use of antisecretory drugs markedly reduce acid secretion
   and may, therefore, be risk conditions for malabsorption of dietary and supplementary
25 calcium, and may thereby increase the risk of osteoporosis in the long term (Sipponen et al.,
    Scand J Gastroenterol. 2010;45(2):133-8).
   Calcium gastrointestinal absorption may also be decreased in patients after bariatric surgery,
   patients suffering from hypoparathyroidism, Crohn's disease, cystic fibrosis, inflammatory
   bowel disease or celiac disease. Individuals, consuming additional types of drugs, such as
30 proton pump inhibitors, anticonvulsants, and chronic corticosteroids, may also develop
   calcium malabsorption.
   Bioavailability of calcium depends on its gastrointestinal absorption and the incorporation of
   absorbed calcium into bone. As for intestinal absorption, physiological factors, particularly
   hormones, play a major role in the incorporation of calcium into bone. The bioavailability of

                                                    2
   calcium may therefore be defined as the fraction of dietary calcium that is potentially
   absorbable by the intestine and can be used for physiological functions, particularly bone
   mineralization, or to limit bone loss (Gueguen et al, J Am Coll Nutr, 2000 vol. 19 no. supply 2
   119S-136S).
 5 Bone mineral density loss is associated with various metabolic bone diseases, such as:
   osteopenia, osteomalacia, Rickets, osteitis fibrosa cystica, and osteoporosis. Studies have
   shown that inadequate intake of dietary calcium can induce many bone-related diseases, such
   as osteoporosis.
   A standard medication for prevention and treatment of certain types of bone loss (including
10 osteoporosis) is an anti-resorptive agent. One non-limiting example for the anti-resorptive
   agents are bisphosphonates, e.g. the bisphosphonate Alendronate (ALN). Administration of
   ALN attenuates the decline in bone mineral density (BMD), as ALN has a bone resorption
   inhibiting effect. However, it is an acknowledged problem that ALN also suppresses bone
   formation and its administration is associated with a risk of adverse symptoms. Use of several
15 drugs in combination has been suggested for the improvement of patients' compliance and the
   therapeutic effect.
   The calcium used in supplements today, whether obtained from natural sources or synthetic
   precipitates, may comprise both organic and inorganic calcium salts. In specific conditions
   where calcium gastrointestinal absorption is limited, standard intake of the available
20  supplements is insufficient to promote absorption, resulting in a need to increase intake
    doses. The requirement of consumption of higher calcium doses in malabsorption-associated
    conditions leads to adverse effects like constipation, kidney stones, vascular problems and
    subsequent reduced compliance. Moreover, most calcium supplements require low gastric pH
    in order to be efficiently dissolved and absorbed through the gut, and thus their
25 bioavailability is superior in a fasting state.
    Over the past 20 years, a rapidly growing scientific interest in the thermodynamically
    unstable amorphous polymorph of calcium carbonate, named amorphous calcium carbonate
    (ACC), has emerged. In nature, ACC is utilized by a small number of organisms, mainly
    crustaceans and other invertebrates that developed capabilities for stabilizing ACC in
30  transient mineral deposition sites. These organisms require an exceptional efficient mineral
    source for the periodical mobilization, absorption and precipitation of calcium. In some
    crustaceans, such as the freshwater crayfish, ACC is stored in large quantities in specialized
    transient storage organs, named the Gastrolith.

                                                     3
   In recent years, some of the inventors of the present invention have disclosed use of the
   gastrolith organs, ground to a fine powder useful as pharmaceutical and nutraceutical calcium
   compositions (WO 05/115414). It was disclosed that daily oral consumption of compositions
   comprising gastrolith components dramatically improves a range of conditions such as bone
 5 disorders, bone fractures, and cancer (WO 2008/041236). Pharmaceutical and nutraceutical
   compositions comprising ACC and phosphorylated peptides or amino acids for treating
   various disorders and conditions are disclosed in WO 2009/053967.
   There is an unmet need for efficient treatment of calcium malabsorption, calcium
   malabsorption associated bone density loss and bone metabolism associated diseases.
10
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention provides a method of use of a composition comprising synthetic or
   natural stable ACC for treatment of calcium malabsorption. It is disclosed herein for the first
   time that ACC can overcome the deficiencies of other types of calcium supplements even in
15 patients suffering from calcium malabsorption.
   The treatment of calcium malabsorption may furthermore prevent or decrease or delay the
    onset of calcium deficiency related disorders, diseases. According to some embodiments
    conditions related to calcium deficiency include patients after bariatric or gastric surgery,
   patients suffering from hypoparathyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, renal tubular diseases,
20  renal failure, pancreatitis, hypoproteinemia, and hyperphosphatemia. According to alternative
    embodiments diseases involving calcium malabsorption include             Crohn's disease, cystic
    fibrosis, inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease, and atopic gastritis. According to further
    embodiments calcium malabsorption may encompass subjects with enhanced bone formation
    and individuals consuming corticosteroids, proton pump inhibitors, anticonvulsants, rifampin
25  and similar antibiotics, chelating agents, and antisecretory drugs.
    Enhanced calcium gastrointestinal absorption of stable ACC compared to other calcium
    supplements may delay or minimize conditions and disorders resulting from calcium
    deficiency in other populations including postmenopausal women, and perimenopausal
    women, elderly men, children, adolescents, pregnant women, and breastfeeding women.
30  Enhanced calcium bioavailability of ACC may further delay or minimize bone density loss in
    subjects suffering from calcium malabsorption. The present invention provides use of a
    composition comprising synthetic or natural stable ACC for increasing the bone mineral
    density in a subject in metabolic bone disorders, diseases and conditions. The composition of
    the present invention is further used for delaying the onset and for treatment of said disorders,

                                                    4
   diseases or conditions, comprising osteomalacia, Paget's disease of bone, osteopenia, osteitis
   fibrosa cystica, Rickets, osteoporosis and acute alcohol consumption
   In one aspect, the invention provides a method of treating calcium malabsorption in a subject
   in need of such treatment, comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of
 5 stable amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer. According to
   some embodiments ACC is of synthetic origin. According to other embodiments ACC is of
   natural origin.
   According to some embodiments the stabilizer is selected from the group consisting of
   organic acids, phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, hydroxyl bearing
10 organic compounds, and combinations thereof. Each possibility represents a separate
   embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at least one
   component selected from phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxyl carboxylic acids and
   hydroxyl bearing organic compounds. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at
   least one component selected from phosphorylated amino acids and polyols. Said amino acids
15 may be present in amino acid derivatives or oligopeptides or polypeptides, and said polyols
   may comprise alcohols or saccharides. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of
   the invention. According to some embodiments the phosphorylated amino acids are selected
   from phosphoserine and phospho-threonine. According to some embodiments, said stabilizer
   comprises at least one saccharide selected from mono-, di-, oligo-, and polysaccharides.
20 According to some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises hydroxyl bearing organic
   compounds further combined with at least one alkali hydroxide. According to some
   embodiments, the stabilizer is a carboxylic acid, preferably citric acid, tartaric acid or malic
   acid. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at least one compound selected from
   phosphorylated amino acids, phosphorylated peptides, chitin with at least one peptide, and
25 polyol with alkaline hydroxide. According to some exemplary embodiments, said ACC is
   obtained from isolated crustacean gastroliths. According to one embodiment, said natural
   ACC is stabilized by chitin and polypeptides. According to another embodiment, the ACC is
    synthetic, wherein said synthetic ACC is stabilized by phosphorylated amino acids selected
    from phosphoserine or phosphothreonine. According to another embodiment said synthetic
30 ACC is stabilized by phosphoserine in combination with citric acid. According to still another
    embodiment, said synthetic ACC is stabilized by citric acid. According to yet another
    embodiment, said ACC is stabilized by sucrose in combination with sodium hydroxide.
   According to some embodiments, the subject suffers from a disorder of calcium metabolism
    associated with a decrease of plasma calcium concentration below 8.8 mg/dL. According to

                                                    5
   some embodiments, the subject in need of the treatment is selected from the group consisting
   of patients suffering from hypoparathyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, renal tubular diseases,
   renal failure, pancreatitis, hypoproteinemia, Crohn's disease, cystic fibrosis, inflammatory
   bowel disease, celiac disease, hyperphosphatemia, atopic gastritis, patients after bariatric or
 5 gastric surgery, subjects with enhanced bone formation, and subjects obtaining medicaments
   selected from corticosteroids, proton pump inhibitors, anticonvulsants, rifampin and similar
   antibiotics, chelating agents, and antisecretory drugs. According to some embodiments, the
   subject is selected from postmenopausal or perimenopausal women. According to some
   embodiments said subject is susceptible to the development of bone mineral density loss
10 associated disorders, diseases and conditions. The bone density loss associated disorder in a
   subject in a need of calcium malabsorption treatment, may be osteoporosis.
   In another embodiment, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising
   stable amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer selected from
   the group consisting of organic acids, phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic
15  acids, and hydroxyl bearing organic compounds, for use in treating calcium malabsorption.
   The pharmaceutical composition according to the invention may further comprise carriers,
    adjuvants, diluents, or excipients.
    In another embodiment, the invention is directed to the use of amorphous calcium carbonate,
    comprising at least one stabilizer selected from the group consisting of organic acids,
20  phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, and hydroxyl bearing organic
    compounds for treating calcium malabsorption.
    In another embodiment, the invention is directed to the use of amorphous calcium carbonate,
    comprising at least one stabilizer selected from the group consisting of organic acids,
    phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, and hydroxyl bearing organic
25  compounds in the preparation of a medicament for treating calcium malabsorption.
    In another aspect, the invention relates to a composition comprising stable amorphous
    calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer for the treatment of calcium
    malabsorption associated disorders, diseases and conditions.
    The invention further encompasses the use of a composition comprising stable amorphous
30  calcium carbonate (ACC) in the preparation of a medicament for treatment (in fed or fasting
    state) of calcium malabsorption in calcium malabsorption associated disorders, diseases and
    conditions, wherein the ACC is finely mixed with at least one stabilizer. In one embodiment
    composition comprising stable ACC has a superior gastrointestinal absorption when

                                                   6
   administered in a fed state. In another embodiment composition comprising stable ACC has
   a superior gastrointestinal absorption when administered in a fasting state.
   In another aspect, the invention provides a method for the enhancement of bone mineral
   density in a bone metabolism associated disorder, disease or condition, comprising
 5 administering an effective amount of a composition comprising stable amorphous calcium
   carbonate (ACC) and at least one stabilizer to a mammalian subject. According to some
   embodiments ACC is of synthetic origin. According to other embodiments ACC is of natural
   origin. According to some embodiments, the stabilizer is selected from the group consisting
   of organic acids, phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, hydroxyl bearing
10 organic compounds, and combinations thereof. Each possibility represents a separate
   embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at least one
    component selected from phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxyl carboxylic acids and
   hydroxyl bearing organic compounds. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at
    least one component selected from phosphorylated amino acids and polyols. Said amino acids
15 may be present in amino acid derivatives or oligopeptides or polypeptides, and said polyols
    may comprise alcohols or saccharides. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of
    the invention. According to some embodiments, the phosphorylated amino acids are selected
    from phosphoserine and phosphothreonine. According to some embodiments, said stabilizer
    comprises at least one saccharide selected from mono-, di-, oligo-, and polysaccharides.
20  According to some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises hydroxyl bearing organic
    compounds further combined with at least one alkali hydroxide. According to some
    embodiments, the stabilizer is a carboxylic acid, preferably citric acid, tartaric acid or malic
    acid. In some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at least one compound selected from
    phosphorylated amino acids, phosphorylated peptides, chitin with at least one peptide, and
25  polyol with alkaline hydroxide. According to some embodiments, said ACC is obtained from
    isolated crustacean gastrolith.
    According to some embodiments, the method for the enhancement of bone mineral density
    comprises administration of the composition comprising stable ACC in combination with a
    bone resorption inhibitor. According to some embodiments, the bone resorption inhibitor is
30  bisphosphonate. According to some embodiments, the bisphosphonate is selected from
    Alendronate, Risedronate, Tiludronate, Ibandronate, Zolendronate, Pamidronate, Etidronate,
    and salts and esters thereof. According to one embodiment, the bisphosphonate is
    Alendronate. In some embodiments, the composition is administered in combination with
    lower therapeutic doses of bisphosphonate Alendronate, compared to the dose required

                                                     7
   without calcium supplements or with calcium supplements other than stable ACC
   supplements. According to some embodiments, the invention provides a method for the
   enhancement of bone mineral density in bone metabolism associated disorders, diseases or
   conditions, selected from osteoporosis, oseomalacia, Paget's disease of bone, osteopenia,
 5 osteitis fibrosa cystica and Rickets. In one specific embodiment, the invention provides a
   method for enhancing bone mineral density in osteoporosis. According to some
   embodiments, the invention provides a method for the enhancement of bone mineral density
   in bone metabolism associated disorders, diseases or conditions, selected from osteomalacia,
   Paget's disease of bone, osteopenia, osteitis fibrosa cystica, Rickets, osteoporosis and acute
10 alcohol consumption, comprising administration of said composition in combination with
   bone resorption inhibitor. In one specific embodiment, the invention provides a method for
   enhancing bone mineral density in osteoporosis, comprising administration of said
   composition in combination with bisphosphonate Alendronate. According to the method of
   the present invention, the composition is administered to a mammalian subject selected from
15 postmenopausal women, elderly men, children, adolescents, pregnant               women, and
   breastfeeding women. According to some embodiments, the method for the enhancement of
   bone mineral density comprises administration of the composition comprising stable ACC,
   wherein said subject is selected from patients suffering from calcium malabsorption and
    calcium malabsorption associated disorders, diseases and conditions.
20 The invention further provides the use of a composition comprising stable amorphous
    calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer, selected from the group
    consisting of organic acids, phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, and
    hydroxyl bearing organic compounds for use in the preparation of a medicament for the
    enhancement of bone mineral density in a bone metabolism associated disorder, disease or
25  condition The pharmaceutical composition according to the invention may further comprise
    carriers, adjuvants, diluents, or excipients.
    In still another aspect, the invention provides a method of enhancing calcium gastrointestinal
    absorption in a subject suffering from calcium malabsorption, comprising administering to
    said subject an effective amount of ACC comprising at least one stabilizer. According to
30  some embodiments, the administration is performed to said subject selected from a subject in
    a fasting state and in a fed state.
    All the above and other characteristics and advantages of the invention will be further
    understood through the following illustrative and non-limitative description of embodiments
    thereof, with reference to the appended drawings.

                                                   8
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1: Calcium levels are elevated following amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) vs.
   crystalline calcium carbonate administration to rats
   Results are means ± SEM. Student's t-test: *p< 0.05
 5 Figure 2: Calcium fractional absorption is increased by 2.1 fold per each woman following
   amorphous calcium carbonate administration (ACC) vs. crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC)
   in fed postmenopausal women
   Pairedt-test: p < 0.01
   Figure 3: Calcium fractional absorption is increased by 1.9 fold as two separated groups
10 analyzed following amorphous calcium carbonate administration (ACC) vs. crystalline
   calcium carbonate (CCC) in fed postmenopausal women
   Results are means ± SEM. Student's t-test: *p< 0.05
   Figure 4: Calcium fractional absorption is increased by 4.6 following amorphous calcium
    carbonate administration (ACC) vs. crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC) in one fasted
15 postmenopausal woman
    Figs. 5A-5E: Three-dimensional reconstruction of a representative distal femurs and 4"
    vertebras cross sectionsfrom each treatmentgroup.
    Tubercular bone region for Sham (Fig. 5A); Crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC) (Fig. 5B);
    amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) (Fig. 5C); CCC+alendronate (ALN) (Fig. 5D); and
20  ACC+ALN (Fig. 5E). Scale bar represents 1.5mm distance.
    Figs. 6A-6D: Trabecularbone mineral density (Tb.BMD) and bone volume from total bone
    tissue volume (B V/TV) of the groups obtained by pCT.
    Fig. 6A: Th.BMD of the distal femur.
    Fig. 6B: Th.BMD of the 4th lumbar vertebra.
25  Fig. 6C: BV/TV of the distal femur.
    Fig. 6D: BV/TV of the 4th lumbar vertebra.
    Percentage represent increase from CCC treated group (control).
    Figs. 7A-7E: Three-dimensional reconstruction of a representative distal femurs and 4"'
    vertebras cross sections from each treatment group.
30  Tubercular bone region for sham (Fig. 7A); control (Fig. 7B); gastrolith (Gast) (Fig. 7C);
    amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) (Fig. 7D); and citrate (Fig. 7E). Scale bar represents
     1.5mm distance.
    Figs. 8A-8B: Trabecularbone mineral density (Tr.BMD) of the groups obtained by pCT.
    Fig. 8A: Tr.BMD of the distal femurs.

                                                     9
   Fig. 8B: Tr.BMD of the    4 th lumbar vertebrae.
   One-way ANOVA: p<0.001. Letters represent Fishers LSD post-hoc comparison.
   Figs. 9A-9B: Trabecularbone volume from total bone tissue (B V/TV) of the treatmentgroups
   obtainedby pCT.
 5 Fig. 9A: BV/TV of the distal femurs.
   Fig. 9B: BV/TV of the    4 th lumbar vertebras.
   One-way ANOVA: p<0.001. Letters represent Fishers LSD post-hoc comparison.
   Figs. 1OA-10G: Mechanicalmicroarchitecturalpropertiesof the lumbar vertebras.
   Ultimate Force (Fig. 10A); Energy to ultimate force (UF) (Fig. 10B); Toughness (Fig. 10C);
10 Energy to yield (Fig. 10D); Trabecular bone pattern factor (TBPf) (Figure 10E); Structure model
   index (SMI) (Figure 10F); Degree of anisotropy (DA) (Figure 10G).
   One-way ANOVA: p<0.01. Letters represent Fishers LSD post-hoc comparison. Bars
   represent SEM.
15 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention discloses a previously unknown use of compositions comprising stable
   amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC). The amorphous calcium carbonate based compositions
   according to the present invention were found to be superior calcium sources over commonly
   marketed calcium supplements. It has now been found that a composition comprising ACC
20 has a surprisingly high calcium bioavailability, comprising higher absorbability in the
   gastrointestinal tract and in the bones. Thus the use of ACC is beneficial in calcium
   malabsorption associated disorders, diseases and conditions (both in fed and even greater
    advantage in fasting state) and in bone loss related disorders and conditions.
   The term "treatment" as employed herein refers to the administration of ACC and
25  enhancement of calcium absorption in gastrointestinal tract and in bones.
   The terms "delaying the onset" or "prophylaxis" as employed herein refer to the
   postponement of development of the bone diseases, postponement of development of
    symptoms and/or a reduction in the severity of such symptoms that will or are expected to
    develop.
30  The term "stable ACC" is used herein to indicate that the calcium carbonate is maintained in
    the amorphous state for long periods of time, e.g., from several weeks to several years, with
    no more than 5% conversion into the crystalline form over the said period of time. The
    crystallization of the ACC is inhibited according to the invention by the addition of one or
    more stabilizer, selected from organic or inorganic ingredients such as phosphorylated amino

                                                      10
   acids, other organic acids, peptides, salts, saccharides, or lipids. Said salts may comprise, for
   example, cations selected from magnesium, potassium, strontium, and sodium, and anions
   selected from carbonate, phosphate, sulfate, chloride, bromide, fluoride, citrate, fumarate,
   malate or other organic anions; the terms anion and cation are used to simply describe the salt
 5 composition, without implying anything about the solubility or pH of the said molecules.
   The terms "stabilizer" or "stabilizing agent" as used herein are used interchangeably and refer
   to any substance that preserves calcium carbonate in the amorphous state.
   The term "calcium malabsorption" as used herein refers to abnormality in absorption of
   dietary calcium across the gastrointestinal tract. The term "bone loss" as used herein refers to
10 any decrease in bone cells or tissue, decrease in bone mass, decrease of bone minerals, or
   decrease of bone mineral density in a subject.
   The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to a sufficient amount of the compositions
   of comprising stable ACC to treat calcium malabsorption, calcium malabsorption and mineral
   bone density associated diseases, disorders and conditions and to enhance mineral bone
15  density at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical or nutritional treatment.
    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a synthetic (artificial) composition
    comprising stable ACC and an amount of a stabilizer sufficient to maintain the ACC in a non
    crystalline state. The stabilizer is selected from, but not limited to, organic acids, phosphoric
    or sulfuric esters of hydroxyl carboxylic acids and hydroxyl bearing organic compounds.
20  According to some embodiments, said stabilizer comprises at least one component selected
    from     phosphoric     or   sulfuric   esters   of   hydroxyl    carboxylic    acids,   such  as
    phosphoenolpyruvate, phosphoserine, phosphothreonine, sulfoserine or sulfothreonine and
    hydroxyl bearing organic compounds, selected from mono-, di-, tri-, oligo- and poly
    saccharides, for example, sucrose, mannose, glucose. The stabilizer comprising hydroxyl
25  bearing compound may further comprise at least one alkali hydroxide, such as sodium
    hydroxide, potassium hydroxide and the like. In some embodiments of the invention, said
    stabilizer is selected from phosphorylated amino acids and polyols. The phosphorylated acids
    may be present in oligopeptides and polypeptides. In other embodiments of the invention, the
    stabilizer is an organic acid, preferably a carboxylic acid. The carboxylic acid is preferably
30  selected from citric acid, tartaric acid or malic acid.
    In one embodiment of the invention, the ACC is stabilized by phosphoserine (P-Ser) or
    phosphothreonine (P-Thr). In another embodiment, the stable ACC comprises a combination
    of sucrose and sodium hydroxide. In still another embodiment of the invention, the ACC is
    stabilized by citric acid. In yet another embodiment of the invention, the ACC is stabilized by

                                                    11
   a combination of phosphoserine and citric acid. In a preferred embodiment of the invention,
   an artificial composition comprising stable ACC comprising traces of one or more stabilizers
   is administered to a person in need of increased or improved calcium absorption.
   In another embodiment, the present invention provides a natural composition, comprising
 5 stable ACC present in isolated crayfish gastrolith. The ground gastrolith comprises ACC,
   organic matter consisting mainly of chitin and polypeptides, and salts. The components
   present in the organic matter stabilize the ACC and prevent its crystallization.
   In one aspect, the high calcium bioavailability presented in the inventions is not related to the
    stabilizing molecule. In another aspect, the present invention claims that the high calcium
10 bioavailability is only related to the amorphous state of the calcium carbonate.
    In another aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising stable ACC,
    comprising at least one stabilizer for use in treatment of calcium malabsorption in patients
    suffering from calcium malabsorption and calcium malabsorption associated disorders,
    diseases and conditions. In another aspect, there is provided a method for the enhancement of
15  calcium gastrointestinal absorption in a subject suffering from calcium malabsorption,
    comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a composition comprising
    stable amorphous calcium carbonate, comprising at least one stabilizer.
    According to some embodiments conditions related to calcium deficiency include patients
    after bariatric or gastric surgery, patients suffering from hypoparathyroidism, vitamin D
20  deficiency, renal tubular diseases, renal failure, pancreatitis, hypoproteinemia, and
    hyperphosphatemia. According to alternative embodiments diseases involving calcium
    malabsorption include Crohn's disease, cystic fibrosis, inflammatory bowel disease, celiac
     disease, and atopic gastritis. According to further embodiments calcium malabsorption may
     encompass     subjects  with    enhanced   bone     formation   and   individuals   consuming
25   corticosteroids, proton pump inhibitors, anticonvulsants, rifampin and similar antibiotics,
     chelating agents, and antisecretory drugs.
      Reduced calcium gastrointestinal absorption may further lead to bone mineral density loss.
     In another aspect, the present invention provides compositions comprising stable ACC,
     comprising at least one stabilizer for use in increasing mineral bone density in patients
30   suffering from calcium malabsorption associated disorders, diseases and conditions. The
     present invention further provides a composition comprising stable ACC comprising at least
     one stabilizer for treatment of bone density loss in a subject suffering from calcium
     malabsorption. Enhanced calcium gastrointestinal absorption of stable ACC compared to
     other calcium supplements may delay or minimize conditions and disorders resulting from

                                                    12
    calcium deficiency in populations including postmenopausal women, and perimenopausal
    women, elderly men, children, adolescents, pregnant women, and breastfeeding women.
    In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising stable ACC
    comprising at least one stabilizer for use in enhancement of bone mineral density in bone
 5  metabolism associated disorders, diseases or conditions. According to one embodiment of the
    invention, the bone metabolism associated disorders, diseases and conditions are selected
    from oseomalacia, Paget's disease of bone, osteopenia, osteitis fibrosa cystica, Rickets,
    osteoporosis and acute alcohol consumption.         According to some embodiments, said
    composition may be administered in combination with other medications for prevention and
10  treatment of bone loss. The medications for prevention and treatment of bone loss are
    selected from bone resorption inhibitors, comprising bisphosphonates (salts of bisphosphonic
     acid), estrogen receptor modulators, androgen receptor modulators, calcitonin formulations,
     alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide formulations, ipriflavone formulations, anabolic steroid
     formulations, anti-RANKL (receptor activator of NF-kappa B ligand) antibody and the like.
15   One non-limiting example of a bisphosphonate used for prevention or treatment of bone
     mineral density loss is the bisphosphonate Alendronate. The use of a composition comprising
     ACC in combination with bone resorption inhibitors provides an additive effect on increasing
     bone mineral density. Without wishing to be bound by any specific theory, the additive effect
     provided by ACC may be attributed to the high bioavailability and bone-formation inducing
20   effect thereof. Administration of ACC in combination with bone resorption inhibitor allows
     the reduction of therapeutic doses of bone resorptive inhibitor due to the observed additive
     effect, as compared to administration of ALN in combination with crystalline calcium
      carbonate. In some embodiments, the invention provides a method for enhancing bone
     mineral density in bone metabolism associated disorders, comprising administering a
25    composition comprising stable ACC comprising at least one stabilizer in combination with
     bisphosphonates. In the context of the present invention the term combination therapy
      encompasses administration of two or more active ingredients in a single dosage form or in
      separate dosage forms. Separate dosage forms may be administered simultaneously or
      sequentially or on entirely independent separate regimens. For example, the ACC may be
 30   administered daily and the bisphosphonate may be administered less frequently.
      In some embodiments, said composition is administered in combination with lower
      therapeutical doses of bisphosphonate, compared to the dose required without calcium
      supplements or with calcium supplements other than stable ACC supplements e. In some
      embodiments, the bisphosphonate is Alendronate. In some embodiments, said composition is

                                                     13
   administered in combination with lower therapeutical doses of Alendronate, compared to the
   dose required without calcium supplements or with calcium supplements other than stable
   ACC supplements. In some embodiments, said composition in combination with ALN is used
   for enhancing bone mineral density in osteoporosis.
 5 In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising stable ACC,
   comprising at least one stabilizer for treatment of bone mineral density loss-associated
   disorders. According to one embodiment of the invention, the bone mineral density loss
   associated disorders, diseases and conditions are selected from osteomalacia, osteopenia,
   osteitis fibrosa cystica, Rickets, osteoporosis and acute alcohol consumption.
10 In still another aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising stable ACC,
   comprising at least one stabilizer for delaying the onset or prophylaxis of bone mineral
   density loss-associated disorders. According to one embodiment of the invention, the bone
   mineral density loss-associated disorders, diseases and conditions are selected from
   osteomalacia, osteopenia, osteitis fibrosa cystica, Rickets, osteoporosis and acute alcohol
15 consumption.
   According to the method of the present invention, the composition comprising stable ACC is
   particularly advantageous for use in subjects susceptible to decrease in bone mineral density
    or to the development of a bone metabolism associated disorder, such as postmenopausal
    women and elderly men. In another aspect, the compositions of the invention are
20  administered to subjects required to consume high levels of calcium such as children,
    adolescents and women during pregnancy and breastfeeding. In yet another aspect, the
    compositions of the invention are administered to subjects suffering from calcium
    malabsorption.
    In one aspect, the present invention relates to the use of compositions comprising stable ACC
25  comprising at least one stabilizer in the preparation of medicaments for treatment of calcium
    malabsorption in patients suffering from calcium malabsorption associated disorders, diseases
    and conditions.
    In a still further aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a composition comprising
    stable ACC comprising at least one stabilizer in the preparation of medicaments for
30  enhancement of bone mineral density in a bone metabolism associated disorder, disease or
    condition. In some embodiments said medicaments are used in combination with bone
    resorption inhibitors. In a yet further aspect, said compositions are used in the preparation of
    medicine for treatment of bone mineral density loss associated diseases, disorders and
    conditions. In a still further aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a composition

                                                      14
   comprising ACC in the preparation of medicaments for prophylaxis of bone mineral density
   loss associated diseases, disorders and conditions and calcium malabsorption related
   conditions. In a still further aspect, the compositions of the present invention are used for
   increasing calcium absorption in populations susceptible to the development of metabolic
 5 bone disorders, diseases and conditions. In one embodiment, the present invention relates to
   the oral administration of a composition comprising stable ACC having a superior
   gastrointestinal bioavailability when administered in a fed state. In another embodiment, the
   present invention relates to the oral administration of a composition comprising stable ACC
   in a fasting state to reach a greater efficient gastrointestinal bioavailability.
10 Evidence has been provided, supporting the notion that it is the amorphous calcium carbonate
   alone, regardless of the stabilizing molecule or mechanism, that promotes the higher
   bioavailability of calcium when administered as ACC. In an important embodiment of the
   invention, synthetic ACC has a superior gastrointestinal bioavailability when administered in
   a fed state. In another important embodiment of the invention, synthetic ACC has a superior
15 gastric bioavailability when administered in a fasting state. In a still other important
   embodiment of the invention, ACC from natural sources has a superior gastric bioavailability
   when administered in a fed state. In a further important embodiment of present invention,
   ACC from natural sources has a superior gastric bioavailability when administered in a
    fasting state. According to some embodiments, the administration of stable ACC comprising
20  at least one stabilizer to a subject in need of such treatment is performed regardless of
   whether the subject is in a fasting state or in a fed state.
   The compositions of the invention may be preferably administered orally in various oral
    forms including, but not limited to, tablets, capsules, pills, powders, granules, elixirs,
    tinctures, suspensions, syrups, emulsions and as gel form.
25  In instances in which oral administration is in the form of a tablet or capsule, the composition
    components can be combined with a non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier or
    excipients such as lactose, starch, sucrose, glucose, modified sugars, modified starches,
    methylcellulose and its derivatives, mannitol, sorbitol, and other reducing and non-reducing
    sugars, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, sodium stearyl fumarate, glyceryl behenate,
30  amorphous silica gel or other desiccant material and the like.
    The compositions of the invention may be administered in daily doses of from 0.5 to about 5
    g. According to alternative embodiments, the compositions of the invention may be
    administered in daily doses of from 1.5 to about 20 g. The compositions of the invention may
    be administered in daily doses comprising elemental calcium in a range of from 0.15 to about

                                                     15
   1.5 g. According to alternative embodiments, the compositions of the invention may typically
   be administered in daily doses comprising elemental calcium in a range of from 0.5 to about
   6 g.
   For oral administration in liquid form, the composition components can be combined with
 5 non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers such as ethanol, glycerol, water and the
   like. When desired or required, suitable binders, lubricants, disintegrating agents and coloring
   and flavoring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture.
   A particular advantage of the compositions according to the invention is their confirmed low
   toxicity and high safety for oral administration. Accordingly, the compositions of the
10 invention are, in other aspect of the invention, advantageously used as medical foods.
   The inventors have conducted experiments aiming to evaluate the bioavailability of calcium
   source comprising stable ACC. The bioavailability of calcium from ACC was evaluated both
   in terms of calcium gastrointestinal absorption and of calcium availability to bone
   mineralization process (bone absorbability). The gastrointestinal absorption of calcium in
15 generally healthy population and in population suffering or susceptible to suffering from
   calcium malabsorption was assessed. Reduced calcium gastrointestinal absorption is one of
   the causes of bone density loss. Therefore, calcium bone absorbability in populations
   suffering from calcium malabsorption was also assessed. The use of stable ACC may be
   beneficial for enhancing calcium gastrointestinal absorption and for increasing bone mineral
20  density in subjects suffering or susceptible to suffering from calcium malabsorption. Calcium
    gastrointestinal absorption was further evaluated in populations susceptible to the bone loss
   related disorders and conditions, e.g. postmenopausal women.
    The enhanced calcium availability to bone mineralization process was found to increase bone
    mineral density and to positively affect other bone parameters. As exemplified hereinbelow,
25  the effect of stable ACC comprising different stabilizers on various bone parameters was
    evaluated. The effect of ACC on bone mineral density and other bone parameters in the
    osteoporotic rat model was also evaluated. Amorphous calcium carbonate based
    compositions were also combined with bone anti-resorptive medications, such as Alendronate
    bisphosphonate and their mutual effect on bone fraction parameters was evaluated.
30  The bioavailability measurements comprised the evaluation of calcium absorption from stable
    ACC source in the gastrointestinal tract by means of serum and urine sampling, based on
    widely reported bioavailability models used for the assessment of various drugs and
    supplements, and the evaluation of the effect of calcium from stable ACC source on bone
    mineral density and other bone parameters, based on the widely reported osteoporosis

                                                         16
    prevention and treatment models, used for the assessment of various drugs and supplements.
    The bioavailability of stable ACC was evaluated in patients suffering from malabsorption,
    e.g. patients suffering from hypoparathyroidism and individuals consuming corticosteroids
    and in populations suffering from bone mineral density associated disorders. The enhanced
 5  bioavailability of calcium from the ACC source allows use of ACC for treatment and
    prophylaxis of various calcium malabsorption and metabolic bone associated diseases,
    disorders and conditions alone or in combination with standard medications for treatment of
    bone loss. Having now generally described the invention, the same will be more readily
    understood through reference to the following examples, which are provided by way of
10  illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention.
    EXAMPLES
    Trial 1: Gastrointestinal absorption of calcium from ACC source.
    The objective of the present experiment was to evaluate gastrointestinal absorption of the
15   calcium source comprising stable Amorphous Calcium Carbonate (ACC) in the rat
    radioisotope labeling model.
    Twenty-six 2 month-old male Wistar rats, weighing 240 ± 15 g, were orally administered
     with a single gelatin capsule containing either ACC (amorphous calcium carbonate) or CCC
                                                                     45
     (crystalline calcium carbonate) intrinsically labeled with        Ca, followed by measurements of
20   calcium fractional absorption in serum and calcium excretion.
     Figure 1 presents the changes in serum calcium concentration, as calculated by the
     radioactive readings normalized to the administered dose. The Cmax values in rats that
     received ACC were significantly higher (up to 40 %) than those in the CCC group (Figure 1
     and Table 1).
25
     Table 1: Pharmacokinetic parameters of calcium in the serum following oral administration
     of radioactive calcium carbonate preparations
            Compound                   Cmax (ptg/mL)          Tmax (h)           AUC,(pgxh/mL)
            CCC                         5.8 ± 0.07  a        3.0 ± 0.3  a           109.7 ± 6.4 a
            ACC                          8.1 ± 0.8 b         2.8 ± 0.2 a            134.5 ± 7.0 b
     Different superscript letters representstatisticalsignificance (p < 0.05), as determined by
     ANO VA
 30

                                                   17
   Pharmacokinetic analysis indicates that the gastrointestinal absorption of the ACC is
   significantly higher than that of CCC (area under curve, AUC, values are higher by 22.5 %
   and 20%, respectively, p < 0.05), while the time required to reach the maximal concentration
   (Tmax) did not differ between groups (Table 1).
 5 The retention values presented in Figure 1 suggest that rats that received CCC-containing
   capsules retained 48.5 ± 1.3 % of the received dose. On the other hand, rats that received
   ACC capsules retained 61.4 ± 2.0 % and 60.6 ± 2.1 % of the received dose, respectively. This
   corresponds to a significant increase in retention of 26.6 %, as compared to the retention by
   the CCC-treated group (p < 0.05).
10 Experimentaldetails
   Animals
   All animals were treated according to the Israel Animal Welfare Act under the supervision of
   the Ben-Gurion University Animal Care and Use program. Fifty-one two month-old male
   Wistar rats (Harlan-Teklad, Jerusalem, Israel), weighing 240    ± 15 g, were randomly housed
15 in 12 stainless steel cages in an environmentally-controlled room (23*C temperature, 12:12 h
   light:dark cycle). The rats were fed laboratory rat chow pellets adequate in nutrients ad
    libitum (Koffolk, Petah-Tikva, Israel) and had free access to water for 48 h. Four days before
    the beginning of the experiment, the regular diet was replaced with a low calcium diet
    containing 0.24 ± 0.05 % calcium (0.675 ± 0.05 % phosphate), specially prepared by mixing
20  two food types containing, respectively, 0.01 % calcium (0.3 % phosphate; Harlan-Teklad)
    and 1 % calcium (0.8 % phosphate; Koffolk). The two food types were separately ground in a
    mill to yield two powders which were dry mixed in a ratio of 4:1, respectively, until fine
    homogenization. The homogenized powder was extruded to form new food pellets.
    Seventeen hours prior to capsule administration, the rats were weighed and blood samples
25  were taken (baseline). The rats were then placed into individual metabolic cages and deprived
    of food and water until 3 h post-capsule administration. Three and 24h post-dosing, -10 g of
    low calcium food pellets (0.01% calcium; Harlan-Teklad) were given to each rat. Distilled
    water was allowed ad libitum starting three h post-capsule administration.
     Gelatin capsule administrationto animals
30  Each rat was lightly sedated for 30 seconds with isoflurane (Minrad) diluted 1:4 (v:v) with
    propylene glycol (BioLab). A single capsule containing a specific calcium carbonate
    preparation (i.e. CCC, ACC, or ACC-C; n=17 for each group) was administered

                                                     18
   intragastrically to each of the experimental rats using a stainless steel rat administration
   syringe (Harvard Apparatus).
   Animals blood sampling and chemical analysis
   Blood samples of 120 - 150 d were taken from each rat's tail vein 17 h prior to capsule
 5 administration (time 0) and 2, 3, 6, 10, 24 and 34 h post-administration. The blood samples
   were immediately centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3000 g using a tabletop centrifuge (Hettich
   Zentrifugen, Bach, Switzerland). Duplicate samples (30 pl) of the supernatant serum were
   transferred into plastic vials containing scintillation liquid (Zinsser Analytic, Berkshire, UK)
   and radioactivity was measured using a liquid scintillation counter (Tri-Carb 2100TR,
10 PerkinElmer, Boston, MA). Plasma radioactivity from the given dose were normalized
    according to the measured radioactivity and specific radioactive dose that each rat received
    [(serum cpm x 100) / (total cpm x sample volume)].
   Animalfeces and urine sampling and analysis)
    Feces and urine were collected during the 17 h starvation phase during the acclimation period
15  (baseline) and during the entire 34 h of the experiment to evaluate calcium. Samples of urine
    (500 pL) were transferred into plastic vials filled with scintillation liquid. Feces were dried
    overnight at 70*C in an oven. The samples were ground in a mortar until fine
    homogenization. Feces samples (200 mg) were placed into 5 ml of 1 N NaOH solution
    (Gadot, Netanya, Israel), incubated for 3 hours at 80*C and centrifuged for 10 minutes at
20  3,600 g. Duplicate samples of the supernatant (30 L) were transferred into plastic vials
    containing scintillation liquid. Radioactivity of the urine and feces samples was measured
    using a liquid scintillation counter. Retention values were calculated by subtracting the
    radioactivity measured in the feces and urine from the given dose [(intake - feces and urine
    excretion) /( intake x100%)].
25  Pharmacokineticcalculations of animal samples
    Non-compartmental analysis of an individual rat's calcium concentration versus time data
    was performed using WinNonLin 5.2 software (Pharsight, Mountain View, CA).
    Statisticalanalysis
    One-way      analysis  of    variance    (ANOVA)      was    performed   on   retention   values,
30  pharmacokinetic results and solubility results using the Statistica 6.1 software (StaSoft, Tulsa,
    OK).
    Paired t-test and student's t-test were performed using Prism 5 software.
    A p value < 0.05 was deemed significant.

                                                      19
   The results of the above trial confirmed that stable ACC has higher gastrointestinal
   absorption than CCC in an animal model.
   Trial 2: Calcium gastrointestinal absorption in hypoparathyroidism
 5 The experiment aiming to evaluate gastrointestinal bioavailability of the calcium source
   comprising stable Amorphous Calcium Carbonate (ACC) in the treatment of calcium
   malabsorption is conducted. A randomized, two phase, adaptive then crossover open-label,
   study is performed, comparing amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) supplement to
   commercially available crystalline calcium supplements (CCS) in the management of primary
10 hypoparathyroidism.
   The primary objective of the first phase of the trial is a proof of concept that treatment with
   smaller doses of elemental calcium from ACC compared to crystalline calcium supplement
   (CCS) can maintain target serum calcium (corrected for albumin) values (7.0-10.0 mg/dL).
   The secondary objective of the first stage is to evaluate the sufficient ACC dose. The further
15 secondary objective is to determine the effect of food on ACC absorption.
   The primary objective of the second phase of the trial is testing the hypothesis that treatment
   with smaller doses of elemental calcium from ACC compared to CCS can maintain target
   serum calcium (corrected for albumin) values (7.0-10.0 mg/dL). The secondary objective of
   the first stage is testing the hypothesis that treatment with smaller doses of elemental calcium
20 from ACC compared to CCS does not cause an increase in hypercalciuria in subjects with
   hypoparathyroidism. The further secondary objective is testing the hypothesis that treatment
   with smaller doses of elemental calcium from ACC compared to CCS reduces the side effects
   related with high calcium consumption.
   Selection of Study Population
25 The study population includes twenty (20) subjects with primary hypoparathyroidism, 10
    subjects for each phase.
   Investigationalproduct
   The stable amorphous calcium carbonate used in the study is a synthetic ACC stabilized by
   low concentrations of phosphoserine and citrate (less than 0.5% in the final product),
30 provided by Amorphical Ltd. Phosphorylated serine and the organic citric acid are non-toxic,
   naturally abundant and even consumed as a standalone dietary supplements with no reported
    adverse effects when taken orally.
   Table 2 summarizes the ACC chemical analysis, assessed according to the U.S.
    Pharmacopeia parameters of calcium carbonate, using Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic

                                                     20
   Emission (ICP-AE), Ultraviolet (UV) Spectroscopy, Loss on Ignition (LOI) and flame
   photometer. Unless otherwise specified, the accuracy of the measured values is ± 10%.
   Table 2: Chemical analysis of Amorphical ACC.
       Analysis                            USP requirements          ACC analysis result
       Loss On Ignition (LOI)              N/A                       14.8%
       Ethanol residues                    N/A                       0.034%
       Acid Insoluble                      Less than 0.2%            Less than 0.0002%
       Calcium                             N/A                       32.5%
       Chlorides                           N/A                       1.36%
       Sodium                              N/A                       1.85%
       Phosphorus                          N/A                       0.143%
       Sulfur                              N/A                       <0.1%
       Iron                                Less than 1,000 ppm       9.5 ppm
       Alkali metals*                      Less than 10,000 ppm      475 ppm
       Barium**                            Pass flame test           20 ppm
       Mercury                             Less than 0.5 ppm         Less than 1 ppm***
       Fluorides                           Less than 0.005%          0.001%
       Lead                                Less than 3 ppm           Less than 5ppm***
       Heavy metals                        Less than 0.002%          Trace (Less than 0.002%)
       Arsenic (total)                     Less than 3 ppm           Less than 3 ppm
                                           Less than 5%              Less than 1%
 5     Crystalline Calcium Carbonate
    *Not includingsodium.
    ** Cannot be performed accordingto the USP (wasperformed in Inductive Coupled Plasma (ICP)).
     * Interferences in the ICP measurementsprevented lower concentrationanalyses.
10  Controlproduct- standardof care
    Treatment of patients with hypoparathyroidism involves correcting the hypocalcemia by
    administering calcium and vitamin D (Cusano et al, 2012; Fong & Kahn, 2012). Oral
    supplementation is started with elemental calcium (1-2 g 3 times daily) and calcitriol (0.25-1
    ptg 2 or 3 times daily) for immediate management of postsurgical hypoparathyroidism. In
15  patients at risk of severe and/or prolonged hypocalcemia, elemental calcium is started at a
    dosage of 2 g 3 times daily and calcitriol at a dosage of 0.5 pg 3 times daily. There are
    several types of calcium supplementation. It is available with or without a prescription. All
    of them moderates nerve and muscle performance and facilitates normal cardiac function
    (Straub, 2007):
20      -   Calcium Carbonate (Tums extra strength, Cal-plus, Caltrate, Os-Cal 500) - Amongst
            all available calcium supplements' formulations, calcium carbonate is one of the most
            concentrated calcium supplements with 40% elemental calcium. Many commercially
            available preparations exist. Total daily dose of elemental calcium needs to be titrated
            to minimize the daily dose of vitamin D and to keep patients asymptomatic. Ionized

                                                       21
            calcium is absorbed best in an acidic environment; 400 mg elemental calcium equals
            1 g calcium carbonate.
        - Calcium Citrate (Citracal, Cal-Cytrate 250) - 210 mg of elemental calcium equals 1 g
            calcium citrate.
 5      - Calcium Gluconate (Kalcinate) - Available for IV use. Infuse slowly over 5-10 min;
            10 mL calcium gluconate contains approximately 90 mg elemental calcium; 1000 mg
            of calcium gluconate equals 90 mg elemental calcium.
   In the present study, patients in the control group continue to consume their regular calcium
   supplements and thus are treated with standard-of-care.
10 Dosage and administration
   Phase 1
   Eligible subjects receive ACC tablets. Each dose of the study investigational product consists
   of 50 or 200 mg of elemental calcium from ACC in each tablet.
   Phase II
15 Eligible subjects receive ACC tablets in a crossover study design. The control arm is treated
   with a standard of care (by taking their regular calcium supplementation). Each dose of the
    study investigational product consists of 50 or 200 mg of elemental calcium from ACC in
    each tablet.
   Table 3: Dose of Study Treatment
         Group                                         Treatment
       INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT                      Tablets, each containing 50 or 200 mg of
                                                     elemental calcium from ACC, for oral use.
       CONTROL PRODUCT                               Standard of care.
20
    The mechanism of action and the effect of ACC are yet to be revealed. Therefore, selection
    of the dosage and the favorable absorption conditions (fed/fasted) is based on the results of
    phase I of the study. While the final dosage has to be determined specifically for every
    patient, it is expected that it will be possible to determine a conversion factor between ACC
25  and CCS that will allow easy conversion between both formulas.
    The calcium dosage in the control arm is determined according to the known medical
    history and medication routine of each and every patient.
    The tablets administration is performed 3 times a day throughout the treatment period by the
    subject. IPs administration is documented in the Case Report Forms (CRF) in each visit to
30  the Clinical Research Center (CRC) IP Administration Records. Packs with unused tablets
    are returned to the CRC unit in visits days, counted and documented in the CRFs.
    Allocation of Subjects to Treatment

                                                    22
   Subjects are assigned to one of the treatment groups randomly according to a randomization
   list. Randomization is performed using block randomization.
   Blinding
   This is an open-label study. The subjects, the investigators and any personnel involved in
 5 subjects' assessment, monitoring, analysis and data management are not blinded to the subject
   formulation assignment. The Sponsor is responsible for preparing, dispensing and labeling
   the investigational product IP.
   Study Design
   The study consists of two phases:
10 Phase I
   Ten     (10)   subjects    previously   diagnosed    and    chronically   treated   for   primary
   hypoparathyroidism are enrolled. The daily CCS intake is gradually replaced by reduced
   amount of elemental calcium from ACC. Five (5) subjects consume the ACC before having a
   meal and the other five (5) subjects consume the ACC after having a meal. The safety and the
15  efficacy of the treatment are closely monitored throughout this phase.
   The absorption of ACC is evaluated using weekly serum calcium corrected for albumin (CA)
   value tests. Excretion of calcium in urine is tested at screening and at the end of phase I.
   Phase II - Ten (10) new subjects previously diagnosed and chronically treated for primary
    hypoparathyroidism are enrolled.
20  The subjects are randomly assigned to one of the following treatments for 6 weeks:
         1. Standard of care - The same elemental calcium formulation and dosage that was used
            routinely prior to the study.
         2. ACC - The established dosage of elemental calcium from ACC (based on the
            conversion factor and the fed/fasted conditions found in phase I of the study).
25  The two formulations are administered with the regular daily dosage of vitamin D (1-alfa
    D3).
    At the end of the treatment, each group receives the alternative formulation for another 6
    weeks.
    The superior absorption of ACC is evaluated using weekly blood tests to calculate serum CA
30  values. Excretion of calcium in urine is tested at screening and in the end of each treatment.
    The following is a detailed description of the study procedures:
    Eligible subjects are treated as follows:
    Phase I

                                                    23
   I-Day -21 (+/-17) Screening: Subjects with a diagnosed primary hypoparathyroidism (see
   section 4.1 for definitions), and who are treated with calcium and vitamin D supplementation
   at least 1 year prior to the beginning of the study and are without major renal or hepatic
   disease, are invited to the CRC. At the clinic, subjects are interviewed, their medical history
 5 and their current medication are documented and they sign an informed consent form (ICF).
   Subjects are referred to perform blood tests for serum calcium, P, creatinine and albumin
   levels. Calculation of albumin corrected calcium (CA) is performed. Subjects are instructed
   to perform 24 hour urine collection for Ca, P and creatinine. Subjects are asked to fill out a
   food and medication diary for 3 consecutive days to evaluate their daily dietary calcium
10 intake. Women of childbearing age undergo a urine pregnancy test. Eligible subjects,
   complying with all inclusion criteria and having none of the exclusion criteria are enrolled to
   the study.
    Subjects are informed by phone or on site whether they are eligible to enter the study.
   I-Day 0: Eligible subjects arrive at the CRC where they are asked about any changes in their
15 medical condition since their last visit. Blood tests are performed to define serum calcium, P
    and albumin baseline values. Calculation CA at baseline is performed.
    Subjects receive a pack of ACC tablets, each tablet containing 50 or 200 mg elemental
    calcium (according to the daily total amount of calcium supplementation, 14 day supply + 5
    spare tablets). The replacement of CCS with ACC is calculated according to the following
20  formula:
   NTDC = ITDC - [0.1 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.05 xITDC (mg ACC)]
    *ITDC - Initial total daily calcium intake (mg)
    **NTDC - New total daily calcium intake (mg)
    10% (in mg) out of the initial total daily intake of elemental calcium is replaced by 5% of
25  elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake). The daily
    intake of vitamin D remains the same.
    The calculation for the number of tablets per day is performed specifically for each subject
    (according to the daily dosage of calcium supplementation) by the doctor.
    Subjects are instructed to take the amount of ACC tablets a day, in accordance with their
30  individual calculated NTDC:
        1. Five subjects are instructed to take tablets in the morning after a meal, in midday after
            a meal and in the evening after a meal.
        2. Five subjects are instructed to take tablets in the morning before having a meal, in
            midday before having a meal and in the evening before having a meal.

                                                    24
   Subjects are instructed to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
   I-Day 3 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA
   values are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
 5 calcium doses that were instructed on I-day 0. If CA values are below 7.0 mg/dl or above
   10.0 mg/dl, changes to the calcium intake are made, according to the doctor's decision.
   I-Day 7 ( 1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed:
                 a. Conversion factor 0.5:
10 If CA = baseline, then 20% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake) of elemental
   calcium is replaced by 10% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out of the
   initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     = ITDC - [0.2 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.1 xITDC (mg ACC)]
                 b. Conversion factor 0.75:
15 If CA < baseline, then 10% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake) of elemental
   calcium is replaced by 7.5% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out of the
   initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     =  ITDC - [0.1 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.075 xITDC (mg ACC)]
    CA <7.00 mg/dl enforces end of treatment.
20               c. Conversion factor 0.25:
   If CA > baseline, then 10% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake) of elemental
    calcium is replaced by 2.5% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out of the
   initial total daily intake).
   NTDC = ITDC - [0.1 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.025 xITDC (mg ACC)]
25  Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred and changes in
    concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs
   related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle
    aches, arrhythmia, depression). Subjects receive instructions regarding the new doses of ACC
    and are reminded to take the amount of tablets a day in accordance with their individual
30  calculated NTDC), in the morning, in midday and in the evening, before or after a meal
    (based on their initial assignment). Subjects are reminded to continue their routine
   medications consumption during the trial.
   I-Day 10 (+1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA

                                                       25
   levels are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
   calcium doses that were instructed on I-day 7. If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dl or above 10.0
   mg/dl, changes to the calcium intake are be made, according to the doctor's decision.
   I-Day 14 ( 1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
 5 tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If none of
   the conversion formulas (a-c, I-Day 7) resulted in serum calcium values within the desired
   target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dL), the study is terminated.
   Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred and changes in
   concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs
10 related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle
   aches, arrhythmia, depression).
   50% of the initial daily supplementation of CCS is replaced by ACC based on the conversion
   factor found in I-day 7 (formulas a-c):
            a. Conversion factor 0.5: 50% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake)
15              of elemental calcium is replaced by 25% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg,
                calculated out of the initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     = ITDC - [0.5 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.25 xITDC (mg ACC)]
            b. Conversion factor 0.75: 50% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake)
                of elemental calcium is replaced by 37.5% of elemental calcium from ACC (in
20              mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     = ITDC - [0.5 xITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.3 75 xITDC (mg ACC)]
            c. Conversion factor 0.25: 50% (in mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake)
                of elemental calcium is replaced by 12.5% of elemental calcium from ACC (in
                mg, calculated out of the initial total daily intake).
25 NTDC = ITDC - [0.5 xJTDC (mg CCS)] + [0.125 xITDC (mg ACC)]
    Subjects receive a pack of ACC tablets, each tablet containing 50 or 200 mg elemental
    calcium (according to their individual calculated NTDC, 14 day supply + 5 spare tablets).
    Subjects receive instructions regarding the new doses of ACC and are reminded to take the
    amount of tablets a day in accordance their individual calculated NTDC, in the morning, in
30  the midday and in the evening, before or after a meal (based on their initial assignment).
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
    I-Day 21 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
    tested. Calculation of CA are performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). Subjects
    are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred and changes in concomitant

                                                     26
   medications since their last visit. Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs related with a
   change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches,
   arrhythmia, depression). If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dl, or above 10.0 mg/dl, subject is
   excluded from the study (based on the doctor's decision). If CA levels are within the desired
 5 target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dL), a complete replacement of the daily supplementation of CCS
   with ACC is performed, based on the conversion factor found in I-day 7 (formulas a-c):
            a. Conversion factor 0.5: 100% (in mg) of the elemental calcium initial total daily
               intake is replaced by 50% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out
                of the initial total daily intake).
10 NTDC = ITDC- [ITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.5 xITDC (mg ACC)]
            b. Conversion factor 0.75: 100% (in mg) of the elemental calcium initial total daily
                intake is replaced by 75% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out
                of the initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     = ITDC - [ITDC (mg CCS)] + [0. 75 xITDC (mg ACC)]
15          c. Conversion factor 0.25: 100% (in mg) of the elemental calcium initial total daily
                intake is replaced by 25% of elemental calcium from ACC (in mg, calculated out
                of the initial total daily intake).
   NTDC     = ITDC - [ITDC (mg CCS)] + [0.25 xITDC (mg ACC)]
    Subjects receive instructions regarding the new doses of ACC and are reminded to take the
20  amount of tablets a day in accordance their individual calculated NTDC, in the morning, in
    the midday and in the evening, before or after a meal (based on their initial assignment).
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
    Subjects receive a container to perform 24 hour urine collection prior to their next scheduled
    visit.
25  I-Day 27 (±1) by phone: Subjects are reminded to perform 24 hour urine collection.
    I-Day 28 (±1) - Termination of phase I: Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium,
    P and albumin levels are tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects provide the
    container of 24 hour urine collection for Ca, P and creatinine to test calciuria. Subjects are
    asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred and changes in concomitant
30  medications since their last visit. Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs related with a
    change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches,
     arrhythmia, and depression).
     Phase I results are examined before deciding whether or not to embark on the crossover
    portion of the study planned for Phase II. Phase I data is summarized, showing for each

                                                    27
   subject, by arm and overall the relationship between CA levels by amount of ACC
   replacement of CCS received.
   Phase II
   Ten (10)      new subjects previously diagnosed and chronically treated for primary
 5 hypoparathyroidism are enrolled.
   The subjects are randomly assigned to one of the following treatments for 6 weeks:
        1. Standard of care (CCS) - The same elemental calcium dosage that was used routinely
            prior to the study.
        2. ACC - The established dosage of elemental calcium from ACC (based on the
10          conversion factor and the fed/fasted conditions found in stage I of the study).
    The two formulations are administered with the regular daily dosage of vitamin D (1-alfa
    D3).
    At the end of the treatment, each group receives the alternative formulation for another 6
    weeks.
15  The superior absorption of ACC is evaluated using weekly blood tests to calculate serum CA
    values. Excretion of calcium in urine is tested at screening and in the end of each treatment.
    II-Day -21 (+/-17) Screening: Subjects with a diagnosed primary hypoparathyroidism, and
    who had been receiving calcium and vitamin D supplementation at least 1 year prior to the
    beginning of the study and are without major renal or hepatic disease, are invited to the CRC.
20  At the clinic, subjects are interviewed, their medical history and their current medication are
    documented and they sign an informed consent form (ICF). Subjects are referred to perform
    blood tests for Calcium, P and albumin levels. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are
    instructed to perform 24 hour urine collection for Ca, P and creatinine levels. Subjects are
    asked to fill out a food and medication diary for 3 consecutive days to evaluate their daily
25  dietary calcium intake. Women of childbearing age undergo a urine pregnancy test. Eligible
    subjects, complying with all inclusion criteria and having none of the exclusion criteria are
    enrolled to the study.
    Subjects are informed by phone or on site whether they are eligible to enter the study.
    II-Day 0: Eligible subjects arrive at the CRC where they are asked about any changes in their
30  medical condition since their last visit. Blood tests are performed to define serum calcium, P
    and albumin baseline values. CA values are calculated at baseline.
    Subjects are randomly assigned to one of the following treatments:
         1. Standard-of-care (CCS) - The same elemental calcium dosage that was used routinely
             prior to the study.

                                                    28
        2. ACC - The established dosage of elemental calcium from ACC (based on the
            conversion factor and the fed/fasted conditions found in stage I of the study).
   Subjects that were assigned to the ACC treatment arm, receive a container with ACC tablets,
   each tablet containing 200 mg elemental calcium (35 day supply + 5 spare tablet). Subjects
 5 assigned to the CCS treatment arm continue to take their routine calcium supplementation.
   The exact dosage of calcium supplementation is determined for each subject according the
   known medical history.
   Subjects are instructed to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
   II-Day 3 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
10 tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA
   values are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
   calcium doses that were instructed on II-day 0. If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dL or above
   10.0 mg/dL, changes to calcium intake are made, according to the doctor's decision.
   II-Day 7 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
15 tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that
   may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
   asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial
   grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression). Adjustments of ACC or CCS
   intake are performed if necessary.
20 Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to their assignment
   instructions.
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
     II-Day 10 (+1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA
25 levels are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
    calcium doses that were instructed on II-day 7. If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dL, or above
    10.0 mg/dL, changes to the calcium intake are made, according to the doctor's decision.
   II-Day 14 (+1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that
30 may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
    asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial
    grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression).
    Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to their assignment
    instructions.

                                                     29
   Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
   II-Day 21 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin are tested.
   Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that may
   have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
 5 asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial
   grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression).
   Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to the instructions.
   Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
   Subjects receive a container to perform 24 hour urine collection prior to their next scheduled
10 visit.
   II-Day 34 (±1) by phone: Subjects are reminded to perform 24 hour urine collection.
   II-Day 35 (± 1): Subjects arrive to the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects provide the container with 24 hour urine
    collection for Ca, P and creatinine to test calciuria. Subjects are asked about any side effects
15  or AEs that may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit.
    Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels
    (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression).
    Subjects previously assigned to the CCS treatment arm receive a pack of ACC tablets, each
    tablet containing 200 mg elemental calcium (35 day supply + 5 spare tablets). Subjects
20  previously assigned to the ACC treatment arm, are instructed to resume their regular CCS
    supplementation.
    The exact dosage of calcium supplementation for each subject is determined by the known
    medical history.
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
25  II-Day 38 ( 1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
    tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA
    levels are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
    calcium doses that were instructed on I-day 35. If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dl or above
    10.0 mg/dl, changes to the calcium intake are made, according to the doctor's decision.
30  II-Day 42 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
    tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that
    may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
    asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial

                                                     30
   grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression). Adjustments of ACC or CCS
   intake are performed if necessary.
   Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to their assignment
   instructions.
 5 Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
   II-Day 45 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed to exclude hypocalcemia (Ca<7.0 mg/dL). If CA
   levels are within the desired target range (7.0-10.0 mg/dl), subjects continue to take the
   calcium doses that were instructed on II-day 42. If CA levels are below 7.0 mg/dl or above
10  10.0 mg/dl, changes to the calcium intake are made, according to the doctor's decision.
    II-Day 49 (±1): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
   tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that
   may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
    asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial
15  grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression).
    Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to their assignment
    instructions.
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
     I-Day 56 (tl): Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum calcium, P and albumin levels are
20  tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that
    may have occurred and changes in concomitant medications since their last visit. Subjects are
    asked about symptoms and signs related with a change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial
    grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression).
    Subjects are reminded to take the calcium supplementation according to their assignment
25  instructions.
    Subjects are reminded to continue their routine medications consumption during the trial.
    Subjects receive a container to perform 24 hour urine collection prior to their next scheduled
    visit.
    II-Day 69 (±1) by phone: Subjects are reminded to perform 24 hour urine collection.
30  II-Day 70 (+1) - Termination of phase II: Subjects arrive at the CRC and their serum
     calcium, P and albumin levels are tested. Calculation of CA is performed. Subjects provide
    the container with 24 hour urine collection for Ca, P and creatinine to test calciuria. Subjects
     are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred and changes in concomitant
    medications since their last visit. Subjects are asked about symptoms and signs related with a

                                                         31
    change in serum calcium levels (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches,
    arrhythmia, depression).
    An unscheduled visit may be performed at any time during the study at the subject's request
    or as deemed necessary by the investigator. The date and reason for the unscheduled visit is
 5  recorded. All assessments are optional and to be conducted at the discretion of the
    investigator.
    Early discontinuation visit occurs if a subject prematurely discontinued study participation
    (for the reasons specified in Section 7.4) and is similar to the Termination Visit (Day 28 in
    phase I, Day 70 in phase II).
10  The study procedures are summarized in tables 4 and 5.
        PhaseI
        Table 4: Phase I procedure schedule.
                                                                  Day
          Assessment/      (-21)   *(-2)       0        3       7       10     14    21   27   28
          Evaluation       (121)   ( 2)      (&1)      (±1)   (i)      (*1)   (*1)  (*1) (±1) (±1)
     CRC phone call                  x                                                    x
     CRC visit               x                 x        x       x        x     x      x        x
     Serum CA test           X                 X        X       X        X     X      X        X
     Serum Albumin test      X                 X        X       X        X      X     X        X
     Serum P test            X                 X        X       X        X     X      X        X
     24h urine collection:   X                                                                 X
     Ca test
     24h urine collection:   X                                                                 X
     Creatinine test
     24h urine collection:   X                                                                 X
     P test
     Pregnancy test**        X
     Food and medication     X
     diary
     Symptoms and signs
     related with                                               X               X     X         X
     abnormal serum Ca
     levels: questionnaire
     IP supply                                 X                                X
     Adverse event                          __                                  Ongoing
     *Patientsare informed about their eligibility to participatein the study
 15   **Forwomen of childbearingage

                                       32
   Cxx
          x- X x
          XXX
          x     x     X
           x       xxX
>1     X
                   X                               -oXX
           X0 XC
                       X X Xo
              InIN
                              000
       encn
                            0            0 (U         t
             rN0
                         10         +,
                                           Cc) Ab
        u            n I         NNM            da

                                                     33
   Pre-study (screening)procedures
   The following screening assessments are performed at screening for each subject:
   -   Sign an inform consent form
   -   Subject Medical history
 5 -    Subject current medication
   -    Subject Interviews
   - Pregnancy test (for women of childbearing age)
   - Food and medication diary for 3 consecutive days
   - Compliance with inclusion/exclusion criteria
10 Pre-doseprocedures
   The following assessments are performed for each subject:
     - Subject blood test for calculation of serum CA value, P and albumin
     - 24 hours urine collection for calcium, P and creatinine
   Study tests
15 Blood tests
   Blood tests are performed for each subject in each CRC visit from day 0 and onward: Phase I:
   Day 0, 3, 7, 10, 14, 21, 28.
   Phase II: Day 0, 3, 7, 10, 14, 21, 35, 38, 42, 45, 49, 56, 70.
    24 hour urine collection tests
20  24 hour urine collection test is performed at:
    Phase I: Termination of study (Day 28)
    Phase II: Day 35 and termination of study (Day 70)
    Symptoms and signs related with hypocalcemia
    A list of questions aimed to identify symptoms and signed related with hypocalcemia is asked
25  during the following CRC visits:
    Phase I: Day 7, 14, 21, 28
    Phase II: Day 7, 14, 21, 35, 42, 49, 56, 70
    Study measures
    Blood tests - albumin corrected calcium (ca) calculation,phosphorus and albumin serum
30  levels
    Calcium and albumin:
    The initial assessment of hypocalcemia is usually based on the measurement of serum total
    calcium corrected for albumin concentration. Normal CA values range from 8.5 to 10.2
    mg/dL. In subjects with hypoparathyroidism, the desired target CA values are 7.0-10.0
35  mg/dL.

                                                      34
   The relationship between total serum calcium and albumin is defined by the following rule:
   the serum total calcium concentration falls by 0.8 mg/dL for every 1-g/dL fall in serum
   albumin concentration. This rule assumes that normal albumin equals 4.0 g/dL and normal
   calcium is 10.0 mg/dL.
 5 Calculation: Calcium (corrected, mmol/L) = Calcium (measured, mmol/L) + {(40
   albumin(g/L)) x 0.02}
   Phosphorus (P):
   The serum phosphorus test measures the amount of phosphate in the blood. Normal values
   range from 2.4 - 4.1 mg/dL.
10 24 hour urine collection tests
   For a 24-hour urine collection, all of the urine over a 24-hour time period must be collected.
   The urine sample must include the last urine, 24 hours after starting the collection.
    Calcium:
   Test results may reflect dietary intake:
15  Table 6: Calcium in urine
    Low amount of calcium in          50-150 milligrams (mg)/24-    1.25-3.75 millimoles
    diet:                             hour sample                   (mmol) per day
    Average amount of calcium         100-250 mg/24-hour sample     2.5-7.5 mmol per day
    in diet:
    High amount of calcium in         250-300 mg/24-hour sample     6.2-7.5 mmol per day
    diet:
    Urine calcium level > 300 mg/24 hours or > 4 mg/kg of weight/24 hours is considered as
    hypercalciuria.
    Creatinine:
20  A creatinine clearance test is done on a sample of urine collected over 24 hours. It is used to
    determine glomerular filtration rate, which helps to measure how well the kidney functions.
    Table 7: Creatinine in urine
    Creatinine         Men (younger than 40 years): 107-139 milliliters per minute (mL/min)
    clearance:         or 1.8-2.3 milliliters per second (mL/sec)
                       Women (younger than 40 years): 87-107 mL/min or 1.5-1.8 mL/sec
                       Creatinine clearance values normally go down with age (normal
                       values go down by 6.5 mL/min for every 10 years past the age of 20).
     * The normal adult urine calcium/creatinineratio is <220 mg/g.
25

                                                   35
   Phosphorus:
   The phosphate urine test measures the amount of phosphate in a sample of urine collected
   over 24 hours (24-hour urine test). Phosphate is a charged ion that contains the mineral
   phosphorus.
 5
   Table 8: Phosphate in urine
               Adults:            0.4-1.3 grams (g) per 24-      13-42 millimoles (mmol)
                                  hour urine sample              per day
     Calcium- and phosphate-      Less than 1.0 g per 24-hour    Less than 32 mmol per day
           restricted diet:       urine sample
   Results of a test to measure phosphate in urine are seldom useful on their own. They should
   always be interpreted along with the results of other tests. Calcium and phosphate levels are
10 often measured at the same time.
   Assessment of symptom and signs related with hypocalcemia
    Subjects are asked to answer questions for the presence of symptoms and signs related with
   hypocalcemia (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias, muscle aches, arrhythmia, and
    depression).
15  Subjects' answers are documented in the CRF.
   Safety of treatment
    Calcium, P and Albumin serum levels
    Normal CA values range from 8.5 to 10.2 mg/dL. In subjects with hypoparathyroidism, the
    desired target CA values are 7.0-10.0 mg/dL. The initial assessment of hypocalcemia is
20  usually based on the measurement of serum total calcium corrected for albumin
    concentration, according to the following formula: Calcium (corrected, mmol/L) = Calcium
    (measured, mmol/L) + {(40 - albumin(g/L)) x 0.02}.
    The serum phosphorus test measures the amount of phosphate in the blood. Normal values
    range from 2.4 - 4.1 mg/dL.
25   Urine calcium, P and creatininetests
    Urine calcium level > 300 mg/24 hours or > 4 mg/kg of weight/24 hours is considered as
    hypercalciuria.
    Normal Urine creatinine levels in men (younger than 40 years) are 107-139 milliliters per
    minute (mL/min) or 1.8-2.3 milliliters per second (mL/sec) and in women (younger than 40

                                                       36
   years) are 87-107 mL/min or 1.5-1.8 mL/sec. Creatinine clearance values normally go down
   with age (normal values go down by 6.5 mL/min for every 10 years past the age of 20).
   Urine calcium measurement is expressed in relation to creatinine.
   A normal reference interval for the urine calcium (mg/dL): urine creatinine (mg/dL) ratio is
 5 <0.14.
   Normal phosphate levels are 0.4-1.3 grams (g) per 24-hour urine sample.
   Complications
   Symptoms and signs related with hypocalcemia (tetany, facial grimacing, paresthesias,
   muscle aches, arrhythmia, depression) are documents.
10  Statisticalanalysis
    This is a two-stage prospective study in which ACC is evaluated as a replacement for CCS in
    subjects with hypoparathyroidism. Efficacy is evaluated by the degree to which smaller
    doses of ACC replacing larger doses of CCS are able to provide the supplemental calcium
    required by individuals with hypoparathyroidism. Safety is evaluated by adverse events
15  (AEs) including those related to urinary calcium excretions. Statistical plan and analysis are
    carried out by TechnoSTAT Ltd.
    Design considerations
    This is a two-phase study in which the first phase evaluates a predetermined conversion factor
    from CCS to ACC in subjects with hypoparathyroidism. During this phase progressively larger
20  proportions of CCS are replaced with ACC depending on subject response, hence the adaptive
    nature of this phase.
    If the first phase of the trial demonstrates the safety of the conversion factor, the second phase is
    initiated. The second phase comprises a crossover trial with newly recruited subjects; i.e.
    subjects who did not participate in the first phase of the trial. Each of these subjects is block
25  randomized in 1:1 ratio to CCS Control or ACC Treatment. In the second leg of the crossover
    each subject receives the alternative formulation which he or she did not receive in the first leg.
    The study duration per subject participating in phase I is 49 days from screening (day -21) until
    termination (day 28) and 91 days from screening (day -21) until termination (day 70) per subject
    participating in phase II.
30  Visits to the CRC takes place on days 0 (baseline), 3, 7, 10, 14, 21 and 28 (end-of-phase I) and
    on days 0 (baseline), 3, 7, 10, 14, 21, 35, 38, 42, 45, 49 and 70 (end-of-phase II) for phase I
    and phase II, respectively.

                                                     37
   Blood and urine tests and clinical questionnaire are performed during subjects' visits at the
   clinic.
   Analysis sets
   Safety population
 5 The safety population consists of all patients in both study stages for whom ACC or CCC
   were administered as part of trial procedures.
   Efficacy population
   The efficacy population consists of Phase II subjects with no major entry violations likely to
   affect outcome, for whom there are baseline and at least some post-treatment data on serum
10 CA levels. The degree to which an entry violation is likely to affect outcome is determined by
   a reviewer blind to outcome (i.e. blind review).
   Treatment of missing values: only observed data is used; missing data is not imputed.
   Endpoints
   Safety
15 Overall incidence of product related adverse events.
   All adverse events and serious adverse events are collected and reported.
   PrimaryEfficacy
           -   In Phase I: Change in elemental calcium doses from ACC achieving normalization in
               serum CA and urine calcium levels
20         - In Phase II: Serum CA and urine calcium levels
   Secondary Efficacy
   Secondary efficacy endpoints include:
           -   Side effects associated with calcium levels
            -  Symptoms related to hypocalcemia
25          -  Serum phosphorous levels
     Data analysis
     Overview
     Safety and subject disposition analyses are conducted on the safety population. Efficacy
     analyses are done on the efficacy population. Phase I and II results are analysed and
30   presented separately.
   The data is summarized in tables listing the mean, standard deviation median, minimum,
   maximum and number of subjects for continuous data, or in tables listing count and
   percentage for categorical data where appropriate. Tables are presented by study arm, over
   time and overall. In Phase I, study arms consist of ACC intake before or after meals. In Phase
35  II, study arms consist of CCS or ACC.

                                                      38
   All statistical analyses are performed and data appendixes are created using the SAS@
   system. The effects of noncompliance, dropouts, and possible covariates such as Age and
   Gender are assessed to determine the impact on the general applicability of results from this
   study.
 5 Subject Disposition
   Subject disposition is tabulated; the number of enrolled, exposed, prematurely terminated and
   completed subjects is summarized.
   A list of dropouts is prepared including reason for discontinuation, and time of
   discontinuation.
10 Safety
   The safety analyses are descriptive and narrative in nature, with SAE's and AE's coded using
   MedDRA and tabulated by body system, preferred term, study arm, severity and relation to
   procedure. Descriptive statistics and shift analysis tables, indicating changes between
   "normal" and "abnormal" values, are provided as appropriate for laboratory tests.
15 PrimaryEfficacy Analyses: PhaseI
   Phase I data is summarized numerically and graphically, showing for each subject, by arm
   and overall the relationship between calcium levels by amount of ACC replacement of CCS
   received. ACC and serum CA levels are described over time for each individual, by arm and
   overall, numerically, by shift tables and graphically.
20 PrimaryEfficacy Analyses: PhaseII
   Serum CA levels are summarized both numerically and graphically by arm over time and for
   differences between arms over time for parallel, paired time points (DO,D35; D3,D38;
   D7,D42; D10,D45; D14,D49; D21, D56). Differences in CA levels between arms at parallel
   time points are compared by paired t-test or Wicoxon Sign-rank test depending on the
25 distribution of differences.
   Secondary Analyses
    Side effects associated with a change is serum calcium levels as well as symptoms related to
   hypocalcemia are described by arm in both Phase I and Phase II. Serum phosphorous levels
    are described by arm over time in Phase I and Phase II, as well as by differences between
30  arms at parallel time points in Phase II. Shift tables are provided by arm for both Phases.
   Interim Analysis
   There is no formally planned interim analysis within either of the two study phases. However,
    safety data, which includes serum CA and phosphorous levels, is monitored continuously.

                                                      39
   Phase I results are examined before deciding whether or not to embark on the crossover
   portion of the study planned for Phase II.
   Data management
    Investigational data is recorded on paper CRFs. CRFs are filled for enrolled subjects only
 5  (not screening failures). Through his/her signature on the CRF, the investigator certifies that
    the data collected for each patient are accurate, complete and legible.
    All data generated in the current clinical investigation are managed according to
    TechnoSTAT standard procedures. Data and other study documentation are archived for a
    minimum of 6 years after the completion of the investigation.
10  Safety
    Definition of adverse events
    An adverse event is any untoward medical sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding),
    symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of the IPs whether or not considered
    as IP related. A new condition or the worsening of a pre-existing condition is considered an
15  AE. All abnormal findings considered to be clinically significant must be recorded as
    adverse events.
    The cases of acute medical situation (which are assessed within 48 hours from the beginning
    of the study) that are considered significant by the Principal Investigator (such as pins and
    needles, numbness around the mouth, cramps, anxiety, muscular contractions, seizures,
20   stridor, psychosis, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, constipation, stomach pain, thirst, dry
    mouth and increased urination) are documented in the Case Report Form (CRF) and the
     subject is excluded from the experiment.
     In all cases, the etiology of the AE should, as much as possible, be identified and the Sponsor
    notified by recording in the CRF.
25   The relationship of the adverse event to the IP is defined as follows:
    Table 9: The relationship of the adverse event to the IP
        Most probably      Follows a reasonable temporal sequence from study IP administration
        related:           and cannot be reasonably explained by known characteristics of the
                           patient's clinical data
        Possibly           Follows a reasonable temporal sequence from study IP administration
        related:           but could have been produced by the patient's clinical state
        Probably not       Temporal association is such that the study IP is not likely to have
        related:           had any reasonable association with the observed event.
        Not related:       No relationship to study IP is perceived.

                                                    40
   Serious adverse event (SAE) is any adverse event that:
           -   Led to death.
           -   Resulted in a life-threatening illness or injury.
           -   Resulted in permanent impairment of a body structure or body function
 5         -   Required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization.
           -   Resulted in medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment to
               body structure or body function
           - Led to fetal distress, fetal death, congenital abnormality or birth defect.
   Definitions of adverse event intensity
10 The following definitions should be used by the investigating physician to describe the
   intensity of adverse events.
    The following are the only definitions which should be used to describe adverse event
   intensity. Only one severity definition should be used for each adverse event (e.g. "mild
   moderate" is not acceptable).
15
   Table 10: Adverse Event intensity
      Intensity      Definition
      Mild           Adverse experience which is easily tolerated
      Moderate       Adverse experience sufficiently discomforting to interfere with daily
                     activity.
      Severe         Adverse experience which prevents normal daily activities.
   Abnormal laboratoryvalues
       A clinical laboratory abnormality is documented if any one of the following conditions
20     is met:
       -    The laboratory abnormality is present in a repeated test
       -    The abnormality is of a degree that requires active management (e.g. change of
            dose, discontinuation of the treatment, more frequent follow-up assessments, etc.).
      Normal laboratory values are:
25     -    Serum calcium (albumin corrected): 7.0 to 10.0 mg/dL
       -    Serum phosphorus: 2.4 - 4.1 mg/dL
       -    Urine calcium: > 300 mg/24 hours
       -    Urine creatinine: 40 to 300 mg/dl
       -    Urine phosphate: 0.4-1.3 grams (g)
30     Abnormal laboratory results that are not within the normal reference range are recorded
       and treated.

                                                    41
    Recording of adverse events
    All of the following details should be recorded in the subject's CRF for each adverse
    event:
        -    Full description of adverse event.
 5       -   Date and time of onset.
         -   Date and time of resolution.
         -   Severity of event, to be assessed by the investigating physician in accordance with
             the definitions in Section 16.2.
         -   Relationship to study IPs is assessed by the investigating physician.
10       -   Action taken (if any).
         - Outcome and details of any further follow-up.
    Anticipated side effects (adverse events)
    The following is a list of ACC investigational product possible adverse events. The list is
    based on prior experience from use of natural ACC and effects related to crystalline forms
15   of calcium consumption:
           - Belching
           - Gas
           - Constipation
20         -Nausea
           -  Vomiting
           -  Loss of appetite
           -  Increased urination
           -  Kidney damage
25         -  Confusion
           -  Irregular heart rhythm.
     Trial 3: Calcium bone absorption in corticosteroids consuming individuals
     The experiment aiming to evaluate the bioavailability of the calcium source comprising
     stable Amorphous Calcium Carbonate (ACC) for bone mineralization in the subjects
30   suffering from calcium malabsorption associated diseases, disorders and conditions is
     conducted. A multicenter prospective, randomized, parallel, double-blind, active
     controlled study is performed, comparing the effect of amorphous calcium carbonate
     (ACC) versus crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC) on bone mineral density of patients
     chronically treated with corticosteroids
 35  The primary objective of the trial is to assess the efficacy of treatment with calcium from
     ACC compared to CCC on preservation of bone mineral density in patients exposed to
     long-term treatment of corticosteroids. The secondary objective is to evaluate the effect of
     ACC compared to CCC on fractures' prevalence during the study period. The further

                                                   42
   secondary objective is to evaluate the effect of ACC compared to CCC on bone
   metabolism biomarkers. The yet further objective of the trial is to evaluate the safety
   profile of ACC in this population.
   Selection of study population
 5 The study population includes sixty (60) subjects taking continuous long-term
   corticosteroid therapy, thirty (30) subjects in each treatment group.
   Descriptionof the investigationalproduct
   The stable amorphous calcium carbonate used in the study is a synthetic ACC stabilized
   by low concentrations of phosphoserine and citrate (less than 0.5% in the final product),
10 provided by Amorphical Ltd,, as disclosed hereinabove.
   Description of the controlproduct
   The control product contained in each capsule 500 mg of crystalline calcium carbonate
    (200 +5 mg elemental calcium) and 167 mg of sucrose. Elemental calcium level in the
    control product was equal to the elemental calcium level in the treatment group in order to
15  evaluate the effect of amorphous calcium carbonate compared to crystalline calcium
    carbonate.
   Dosage and administration
    Eligible subjects have randomly received one of the two treatments. Each dose of the
    study supplement consisted of 667 mg of ACC or 500 mg CCC in each capsule.
20  Table 11: Dose of Study Treatment
       Group                        Treatment
       Investigational Product      Tablets for oral use containing 667 mg ACC (200 mg
                                    elemental calcium)
       Control Product              Tablets for oral use containing 500 mg CCC (200 mg
                                     elemental calcium) and 167 mg of sucrose.
     Selection of the dosage is based on the recommended daily intake of elemental calcium
     for subjects of age 19-50 (1000 mg/day). The calcium dosage in the control is equaled to
     the elemental calcium levels in ACC product.
25  Allocation of Subjects to Treatment
     Subjects are assigned to one of the treatment groups randomly according to a
     randomization list. Randomization to each of the two study arms is performed using block
     randomization within center.

                                                   43
   Blinding
   The oral calcium treatments administered in the clinical trial are blinded. The subjects, the
   investigators and any personnel involved in subjects' assessment, monitoring, analysis and
   data management are blinded to the subject formulation assignment, except the Sponsor
 5 who is responsible for preparing, dispensing and labeling the investigational product.
   Blinded labels are affixed to the vials prior to dosing by the un-blinded Sponsor.
   Randomizationprocedures
   The study is double blinded and therefore the CRC staff and the subject remain blinded to
   the code assignments throughout the study. Prior to administration, each subject is
10 assigned with an individual number and is treated according to the predetermined
   computer generated randomization list. A computer-generated algorithm is used to assign
   the subject into the treatment groups. The treatment compositions are prepared by the
    Sponsor and labels are affixed to the vials prior to shipping. The hospital pharmacists are
    instructed to dispense the products to the CRC according to the cohort assignment lists.
15 Study design
    Sixty (60) patients that are currently beginning long-term (>6 months) glucocorticosteroid
    treatment are randomly assigned to one of two groups (N=30). Patients in the treatment
    group receive amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) and those in the active control group
    receive crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC). Both formulations are supplemented with
20  vitamin D upon need, based on the doctor's decision. Safety parameters are evaluated
    throughout the trial.
    Patients admitting to the CRC due to various medical conditions are routinely evaluated.
    Subjects that are beginning a long-term treatment with glucocorticosteroids due to their
    medical condition are considered candidates for the trial and are invited to the CRC for
25  screening.
    Screening (Day -7) - Subjects sign an informed consent form (ICF). Chemistry and
    hematology tests are performed:       sodium, potassium, hemoglobin, sedimentation rate,
    leukocytes calcium (total, albumin-corrected), phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, creatinine,
    and albumin are measured. Also, serum PTH, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and thyroid
30  stimulating hormone (TSH) are tested. Urinary excretion of calcium and creatinine are
    measured. General health is examined by medical history and physical examinations.

                                                  44
   Eligible subjects, complying with all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria
   are enrolled to the study.
   Subjects are informed by phone or on site whether they are eligible to enter the study.
   Visit 1 (Day 0) - Eligible subjects are invited to the CRC. DEXA scan is performed at
 5 baseline. BMDs are measured for the lumbar spine (L2-4), femoral neck and whole body.
   Evidences for existing fractures are documented. Serum levels of albumin, calcium (Ca),
   phosphorus, and creatinine (Cr), as well as urinary Ca and Cr are measured. Biochemical
   markers of bone metabolism (serum osteocalcin (OCN), PlNP (total procollagen type 1 N
   terminal propeptice), bone-type alkaline phosphatase (BAP) and urinary levels of type I
10 collagen cross-linked N-telopeptide (NTX)) are measured. Subjects randomly receive
   packs of tablets, each capsule containing 200 mg elemental calcium (210 tablets for 42 day
   supply + 20 spare tablets, a total of 230 tablets) with one of the formulations (ACC or
   CCC). Subjects are instructed to take 5 capsules a day for the first 6 weeks (days 0-42), 2
   tablets in the morning and 3 tablets in the evening, after a meal. To minimize the risks for
15 calcium related side effects, subjects who take calcium regularly, are instructed to
   discontinue their calcium supplements intake throughout the trial. Subjects are advised to
   take vitamin D3 supplementation based on the doctors' decision. Subjects are asked to
   keep a daily diary to record their glucocorticoid use.
   Visit 2 (Day 42+3) - Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have
20 occurred. Subjects are asked about any fracture event that occurred since their last visit to
   the CRC. Subjects complete the TSQM questionnaire with the representative of the CRC.
    Subjects receive additional packs of tablets, each tablets containing 200 mg elemental
   calcium (a total of 210 tablets, 42 day supply + 20 spare tablets) of the same formulation
   (ACC or CCC) that has been received in the previous visit. Subjects are reminded to take 5
25 tablets a day for the next 6 weeks (days 42-84), 2 tablets in the morning and 3 tablets in
   the evening, after a meal. To minimize the risks for calcium related side effects, subjects
   who take calcium regularly, are reminded to discontinue their calcium supplements intake
   throughout the trial. Subjects are advised to take vitamin D3 supplementation based on the
    doctors' decision. Subjects are asked to keep a daily diary to record their glucocorticoid
30 use.
     Visit 3 - (Day 84+3) - DEXA scan is performed. BMDs are measured for the lumbar
    spine (L2-4), femoral neck and whole body. Pre-dose Serum levels of albumin, calcium

                                                   45
   (Ca), phosphorus, and creatinine (Cr), as well as urinary Ca and Cr are measured.
   Biochemical markers of bone metabolism are measured as well. Subjects are asked about
   any side effects or AEs that may have occurred. Subjects are asked about any fracture
   event that occurred since their last visit to the CRC. Subjects receive additional packs of
 5 tablets, each containing 200 mg elemental calcium (a total of 210 capsules, 42 day supply
   + 20 spare tablets) with the same formulation received in day 0. Subjects are instructed to
   take 5 tablets a day for the next 6 weeks (days 84-126) 2 tablets in the morning and 3
   tablets in the evening, after a meal. To minimize the risks for calcium related side effects,
   subjects who take calcium regularly, are reminded to discontinue their calcium
10 supplements intake throughout the trial. Subjects are advised to take vitamin D3
   supplementation based on the doctors' decision. Subjects are asked to keep a daily diary to
   record their glucocorticoid use.
    Visit 4 - (Day 126+3) - Subjects are asked about any side effects or AEs that may have
    occurred. Subjects are asked about any fracture event that occurred since their last visit to
15  the CRC. Subjects receive additional packs of tablets, each capsule containing 200 mg
    elemental calcium (a total of 210 tablets, 42 day supply + 12 spare tablets) of the same
    formulation (ACC or CCC) that has been received in the previous visit. Subjects are
    reminded to take 5 tablets a day for the next 6 weeks (days 126-168), 2 tablets in the
    morning and 3 tablets in the evening, after a meal. To minimize the risks for calcium
20  related side effects, subjects who take calcium regularly, are reminded to discontinue their
    calcium supplements intake throughout the trial. Subjects are advised to take vitamin D3
    supplementation based on the doctors' decision. Subjects are asked to keep a daily diary to
    record their glucocorticoid use and to bring it with them to the next visit.
     Visit 5 - (Day 168+1) - DEXA scan is performed. BMDs are measured for the lumbar
25  spine (L2-4), femoral neck and whole body. Pre-dose serum levels of albumin, calcium
    (Ca), phosphorus, and creatinine (Cr), as well as urinary Ca and Cr are measured.
    Biochemical markers of bone metabolism are measured as well. Subjects are asked about
    any fracture event that has occurred since their last visit to the CRC. Subjects complete the
    TSQM questionnaire with the representative of the CRC. Subjects are asked about any
30  side effects or AEs that may have occurred.
     Outcome measures
         -   Preservation of Bone Mineral Density (BMD) - BMD is defined by Dual Energy
             X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan. The DEXA results are presented as Z-score

                                                  46
           (comparing the results of a specific scan to other people at the same age, weight,
           ethnicity, and gender). A Z-score of less than -1.5 raises concern of factors other
           than aging as contributing to bone loss.
        -  Fracture prevalence - fracture events are documented in each visit.
 5      -  Increase in bone formation markers
        -  Reduction in bone resorption markers
        -  Assessment of calcium side effects:
   Safety analysis
   The safety analyses are descriptive and narrative in nature. The safety endpoints are
10 adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs (SAEs) whether or not related to study treatment.
   Also included are serum calcium levels and urine calcium and creatinine levels.
   Efficacy analysis
   The primary efficacy endpoint is preservation of BMD, by Z-values calculated by DEXA
   scan. Hypotheses are tested by independent groups t-test on raw values if these are
15 distributed approximately normal. Log-transform is used to normalize the data, if the data
   substantially deviates from normal. If after applying the latter the data still deviates from
   normal, the non-parametric Wilcoxon Rank-sum test is used. The trial is considered
   successful, if the Z-score is significantly smaller in Treatment relative to Control.
   The following are the study's secondary efficacy endpoints:
20       -  Reduction in fractures' frequency
         -  TSQM (Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication) domains: A 14-item
            psychometrically robust and validated questionnaire consisting of four scales: the
            effectiveness scale, the side effects scale, the convenience and the global
            satisfaction scale.
25
    Trial 4: Calcium gastrointestinal absorption in populations susceptible to the
    development of osteoporosis.
    The objective of the present study was to evaluate the gastrointestinal absorption of
    calcium from the ACC source in population susceptible to the development of bone loss
30  related disorders. The trial is a clinical study that used the dual-stable calcium isotopes
    technique performed on postmenopausal women.
    Ten postmenopausal women (demographic data in Table 12), with no more than 5 years
    from menopause were included in the study. All subjects, exhibiting BMI of 18-29, were
    apparently healthy and did not suffer from any major medical illness or metabolic bone
35  disorder. Exclusion criteria included women who, on the basis of a food diary

                                                    47
   consumption, have an estimated daily calcium intake >1100 mg through combined diet
   (from both supplements and food), vitamin D deficiency exhibited by values < 20 ng/ml in
   the serum, hypercalcemia, nephrolithiasis, inflammatory bowel disease, malabsorption,
   chronic diarrhea, use of antibiotics within the past month and women suffering from
 5 digestive, hepatic, renal, or inflammatory diseases. Women who take oral steroids,
   anticonvulsants, bisphosphonates, estrogen compounds, calcitonin, or teriparatide within
   the past 6 months were also excluded from the study. Written informed consent was
   obtained from each woman after approval of the protocol by the Ethical Committee of
    Sourasky Medical Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
10
    Table 12: Demographic data of 10 women that participated in the study
                                 Variable
                                 Age, y                55 3.2
                                 Height, cm            159.3 ± 3.7
                                 Weight, kg            66.8 + 5.1
                                              2        26.2 1.9
                                 BMI, kg/cm
                                 PTH, pg/ml            30.3 ± 13.2
                                 FSH, miu/ml           65.2 ± 29.3
                                 25-OHD, ng/ml         29.9 ± 6.7
                                    Results are means + S.D
    Fractional absorption analysis revealed that all 10 subjects showed a significant elevation
    in calcium absorption when being administered ACC instead of CCC.
15  Paired t-test analysis of the results obtained from 9 women that received the capsules after
    breakfast showed a significant elevation of fractional calcium absorption for ACC. The
    average increase in the relative absorption of calcium from ACC vs. CCC for each woman
    was 2.1 fold (p<0.01; Figure 2).
    Overall as two separated treatment groups, there was a 1.9 elevation in calcium fractional
20  absorption when women were administered with ACC compared to CCC (p<0.05; Figure
    3).
    One out of the ten women who received the capsules on an empty stomach after an
    overnight fast presented a 4.6 fold elevation in calcium fractional absorption (Figure 4).
    Experimentaldetails
25   Capsules and CaCl 2 solutionpreparationand labeling

                                                      48
   ACC (Amorphical Ltd.) was intrinsically labeled by dissolving appropriate amount of it in
   32% HCl together with     44
                                CaCO 3 (enriched to 96.1%, CMR, Moscow, Russia), after which
   it was reprecipitated back to ACC powder containing 192 mg elemental calcium (600 mg
                                                                                    44
   powder) labeled with 15 mg           44Ca  per treatment. Overall, 3 batches of     ACC were
 5 prepared and sent to magnetic sector thermal ionization spectrometry (MAT 261;
   Finnigan, Bremen, Germany) for 44:42 molar ratio analysis, and to calcium content
   measurement by atomic absorption (Analytical Research Services, Ben-Gurion University,
   Beersheva, Israel). Additional tests evaluating the amorphous content for each batch were
   performed: X-ray diffraction (XRD; The Nanotechnology Institution, Ben-Gurion
10 University), quantitative polarized spectroscopy (QPS), polarized optical microscopy
   (POM) and dryness. CCC (Zifroni Chemicals Suppliers Ltd., Rishon-Lezion, Israel) was
   intrinsically labeled by homogenizing appropriate amount of it with 44CaCO 3 (enriched to
   96%, CMR, Moscow, Russia) to reach CCC powder containing 192 mg elemental calcium
    (480 mg powder) labeled with 15 mg 44Ca per treatment. To match the volume in the ACC
15  capsules, sucrose (120 mg per treatment; FAGRON Gmbh & Co. KQ Rotterdam, The
   Netherlands) was added to each capsule. One batch of 4 4 CCC was prepared and sent to
   magnetic sector thermal ionization spectrometry (MAT 261; Finnigan, Bremen, Germany)
    for 44:42 molar ratio analyses.
    Isotopic i.v. 42
                     CaC12 solution preparation procedures were conducted by Concept for
20  Pharmacy Ltd. Kfar-Saba, Israel under the laminar flow hood to ensure sterility. The
    appropriate amount of       42
                                   CaCO 3 (enriched to 96.3%, CMR, Moscow, Russia) was
    dissolved in 37% HCl and mixed with 0.45% NaCl. The pH was adjusted with 1ON NaOH
    to 5.5. The solution was forced through a 0.22pt sterilization filter into a sterile container.
    Individual doses (1.5 mg        42
                                       Ca/dose) were transferred into sterile vials for later use.
25  Aliquots were sent for sterility and pyrogenicity testing (Aminolab, Nes-Ziona, Israel) and
    for calcium content measurement by atomic absorption (Analytical Research Services,
    Ben-Gurion University, Beersheva, Israel) before use. All of i.v. solutions in the study
    were sterile and free of pyrogens.
     Urine collection and analysis
30  Following each capsules administration, a timed 24-hour urine collection was performed
    for measurements of calcium, sodium, potassium, urea, creatinine and stable isotope
    analysis. Calcium absorption analyses were performed at Baylor College of Medicine

                                                  49
   Houston, Texas, USA, following previously published methods (Yergey et al 1994).
   Ammonium oxalate was used to precipitate calcium isotopes in the urine samples (Yergey
   et al 1980). The amount of extracted calcium was then used for calcium isotope ratio
   measurements. This amount was determined using magnetic sector thermal ionization
 5 spectrometry (MAT 261; Finnigan, Bremen, Germany).
   Pharmacokineticcalculations of human samples
   Fractional absorption (a24h) of dietary calcium was calculated as described in (Yergey et al
   1994). In brief, the ratio a24h is an arithmetically valid representation of the ratio of the
   areas under the plasma disappearance curves for the two labels.
10 Statisticalanalysis
   The statistical analysis of variance was performed as described in trial 1.
   The results of the above trial confirmed that stable ACC has higher gastrointestinal
   absorption than CCC both in human models, susceptible to the development of bone
   related disorders. Such enhanced absorption may be beneficial in cases when higher
15 calcium intake in required for maintaining bone mineral density, as the absorption of
   crystalline calcium is limited and the excess of calcium may lead to adverse effects.
   Trial 5: Preventing or delaying bone loss in bone mineral density loss associated
   disorders.
   The objective of the present trial was to evaluate availability of calcium from the ACC
20 source comprising various stabilizers (P-Ser, citric acid or sucrose), for bone
   mineralization process assessed by femoral and vertebral bone mineral density (BMD) in
   osteoporosis rat model (ovariectomy; OVX).
    In the study, four groups of rats were tested (3 ovariectomized and 1 sham). The animals
   were treated according to Table 13.
25 Table 14 presents the mean food consumption and body weight of the rats during the trial.
   A significant weight increase was observed in the three OVX groups compared to sham.
   This is despite the fact that food consumption was lower among all OVX groups compared
   to the sham group.
30

                                               50
   Table 13: Assignment of rats according to the treatment
      Group                                       Treatment
                   Standard laboratory diet containing 1%elemental calcium (Altromin
        Sham       Spezialfutter GmbH & Co, #1320P Seelenkamp, Germany) ad
                   libitum.
                                                                            Israel) enriched
     OVXACC        Low calcium diet (TD.95027, Harlan Inc, Jerusalem,
       OVX ACC     with 1%elemental calcium from synthetic ACC stabilized by
       (P-Ser)      0.0275% phosphoserine (ACCPS, SOP PSC002, Amorphical Ltd.)
                    ad libitum.
                    Low calcium diet (TD.95027, Harlan Inc, Jerusalem, Israel) enriched
                                                                                   by
        (CIT)       with 1%elemental calcium from synthetic ACC stabilized
        (CIT)       0.0275% citric acid (ACCCIT, SOP PCA001, Amorphical Ltd.) ad
                    libitum.
                    Low calcium diet (TD.95027, Harlan Inc, Jerusalem, Israel) enriched
     OVXACC         with 1%elemental calcium from synthetic ACC stabilized by
        (SUC)       sucrose and sodium hydroxide (ACC SUC, SOP SUC001,
        n=10)       Amorphical Ltd.) ad libitum.
   OVX= ovariectomy; ACC= amorphous calcium carbonate;PS=phosphoserine;CIT=citrate;
   SUC=sucrose
 5 Table 14: Mean food consumption and total body weight of the rats at the beginning
   and at the end of the experiment
                                                                  OVX
                                     Sham        ACCP-Ser ACCCIT ACCSUC
   Rat body weight (Day 0)          258 (16)       245 (15)      244 (11)          255 (14)
   Rat body weight (Day 90)         299 (29)       337 (18)      341 (16)          357 (22)
   *Weight gain (%)                   23.7a         36.lb          41.25             40.7b
    *Mean food consumption         17.2 (1.0)a    14.0 (0 .8 )b 14.5 (0 .5 )b. 15.5 (0.7)4
    Values were recordedweekly. Weight gain represents the increasedrate of weigh from
    the beginning to the end of the experiment. Values are representedas mean (SD).
    One-way ANO VA: p<0.001. Letters represents Tukey's post hoc comparison tests.
10
    As expected in this model, micro-CT scanning of the femur of the OVX groups
    revealed a significant reduction in trabecular bone mineral density (Th.BMD) and other
    morphometric parameters, i.e: bone volume/tissue volume (BV/TV), trabecular number
    (Th.N), trabecular thickness (Th.Th); and a significant elevation in trabecular
15  separation (Tb.Sp). In addition, the 3 OVX groups were significantly different from the
    sham animals in all femoral microarchitectural topology and orientation parameters,

                                                          51
        i.e.: trabecular bone factor (TBPf), structural model index (SMI) and degree of
        anisotropy (DA) (Table 15).
        Results of the 4-L vertebra micro-CT scan show that the sham group was significantly
        higher compared to all other OVX groups only in BMD, BV/TV and Tb.N parameters
 5      and significantly lower in TBPf and SMI microarchitectural parameters (Table 15).
        In contrast to the trabecular BMD, no differences between all groups were observed in
        the cortical bone BMD (Ct. BMD) of both the femur and vertebra (Table 15).
         In all parameters tested by the micro-CT, no difference was observed among the
         ACC+P-Ser, ACC+CIT and the ACC+SUC groups in both femur and vertebra (Table
10       6), indicating that the compound that stabilizes ACC by itself has no effect on BMD or
         additional bone morphometric or microarchitectural parameters.
         Table 15: Morphometric and microarchitectural topology & orientation parameters
         studied by micro-CT
                                                Sham                             OVX
                                                             ACC+P-Ser         ACC+CIT         ACC+SUC
           (A)        *Tb. BMD, g/cm3          305 (43)a       120 (26)b        112 (20)b        116 (27)
          Femur       Ct. BMD,   g/cm3         775 (79)a      771 (32)a         761 (84)a       743 (55)a
                      "Tb.BV/TV, %             55 (7.5)a       22 (3 .7 )b       21 (3.6)b       22(3.6)b
                       Tb. N, mm7             4.5 (0.3)"      2.0 (0.3)"        2 .0 (0 3 )b    2.1(0.3) b
                      *Tb. Sp, tm              145 (15) a      583 (67)b       621 (125)        613 (92)
                      *Tb.Th, pm               121 (1)a         109 (6)T         105 ( 6 )b         104  (6)b
                      'TBPf, rm-'            -11.4 (4.0) a    5.20 (1.6)b      5.99 (1.7)b      4.60 (1.7)b
                      *SMI                   -0.84 (0.8)a     1.40 (0.1)"      1.46 (0.2)"      1.32 (0.2)"
                      *DA                     1.46(0.1)a      1 .6 4 (0. 2 )b  1 .82 (0 .2 )b   1 .6 1 (0. 2 )b
           (B)        *Tb. BMD, g/cm3          235 (41)a       107 (37)b         124 (39)b       130(29)b
           Vertebra   Ct. BMD, g/cm3           652 (50)a       687 (35)a        663 (41)a        669 (48)a
                      7Tb. BV/TV, %            42 (6.6)"       22(5.1)"          2 4 ( 5 .4 )b   25 (5.3)b
                      *Tb. N,mm-1              3.6(0.5)'       2.1 (0.4)b       2.1 (0.9)b       2.2 (0.4)b
                      Tb. Sp, pim              221 (34) a      335 (53)a        297 (48)a        333 (57)"
                      Tb. Th, pm                117 (5)a         105 (7)a        107 (10)a         111 (6)a
                       *TBPf, mnff           -0.99 (3.5)a     7.04 (2.5)b      5.85 (2.8)b      5.73 (1.7)b
                       *SMI                   0.41 (0.5)a     1.51 (0.3 )b      1.56 (0.7)b     1.40 (0.2)"
                       DA                     2.03 (0.3)a     2.64 (0.7)a       2.36(0.4)a      2.13 (0.4)a
15 (A)Distalfemur metaphysis. (B) 4'hlumbar vertebra.
   Trabecularbone mineral density (Tb.BMD), corticalBMD (Ct. BMD), Trabecularbone volume/tissue volume
   (ib. B V/TV), Trabecularnumber (Th.N), trabecularseparation(Tb.Sp), trabecularthickness (Tb. Th),
   Trabecularbone patternfactor (TBP), structure model index (SMI), degree of anisotropy(DA).
   Values correspondto means (+SD).
20 One-way ANOVA:*p<0.001. Letters represents Tukey's post-hoc comparison tests.

                                                  52
   Experimentaldetails
   Animals
   Forty 16-17 weeks old female Sprague Dawley rats (Harlan Inc., Jerusalem, Israel) with
   an average body weight of 247±14 g were group-housed in 14 cages (2-3 rats/cage) and
 5 acclimated under controlled room conditions (21+2"C and 12-hours dark-light cycle).
   During 7 days acclimation, rats were fed with standard laboratory diet containing 1%
   elemental calcium (#2018SC Rat chow, Harlan Inc. Jerusalem, Israel) and de-ionized
   water ad-libitum.
   Following the 7 days acclimation period, rats were anesthetized using intraperitoneal (IP)
10 injection of anesthetic solution (0.1ml/100g) containing Ketamine (Fort Dodge AH Ltd.
   Overland Park, USA) and Xylazine (EuroVet AH Ltd. Bladel, UK).
   Rats were randomly assigned and operated according to their assigned four groups: Sham
    (sham-Ovariectomized; fed with standard laboratory diet containing 1%elemental calcium
    from CCC) and three other groups were ovariectomized (OVX) using a bilateral dorsal
15  approach according to Lasota and Danowska-Klonowska (2004) Rocz Akad Med
    Bialymst 49 Suppl 1:129-131, and divided to OVX-ACC+PS, OVX-ACC+CIT and OVX
    ACC+SUC. Following operation, rats were provided a 7 days recovery period under the
    same conditions as the acclimation period, standard laboratory diet ad-libitum and de
    ionized water containing 1.5 ml/400ml Dipyrone (Vitamed Ltd, Binyamina, Israel), and 1
20  mg/kg Enrofloxacin (Buyer Ltd. Leverkusen, Germany).
    Experimentaltreatment
    At the end of the recovery period the rats were group-housed (2 rats/cage) according to the
    group assignment, under the same controlled room conditions as described above. The
     assigned food pellets (described in Table 13) and de-ionized water were provided ad
25   libitum during the entire treatment period (90 days). Food consumption and body weight
    were recorded weekly (described in Tablel4). For dynamic histomorphometric analysis
     fluorochrom dye Calcein (20 mg/kg body mass; Sigma-Aldrich, Israel) was IP injected to
     all rats at days 76 and 86. On day 90, rats were individually housed in metabolic cages
     and deprived from food and water for 18h. Urine was collected from each metabolic
30   funnel and was stored at -80*C for future analysis of bone resorption biochemical marker
     at end of the experiment (Time 90). Immediately after urine sampling, serum samples
     were extracted for evaluation of formation biochemical marker of day 90. All rats were

                                                      53
   sacrificed by CO 2 . Right femurs and      4 th lumbar vertebras were dissected, wrapped with
   gaze pads soaked with saline buffer and kept in -80"C for measurement of bone micro-CT
   scan. The    5 th lumbar vertebras were stored in the same conditions as the right femurs for
   mechanical testing. Right tibias were dissected and placed immediately for 24h at 4*C in
 5 3.7% formaldehyde solution (F1l636, Sigma-Aldrich, Israel) for structural and dynamic
   histomorphometric measurements.
   Micro-computedtomography (pCT) scanning
   Trabecular and cortical bone microarchitecture of right femurs and         4 th lumbar vertebrae
   were analyzed in a piCT scanner (Skyscan 1174, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
10 Calibration of the scanner for bone mineral density (BMD) was performed according to
   manufacture instructions using a designated rat phantom rod with densities of 0.25 and
   0.75 g/cm 3 (Skyscan, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
   Prior to scan analysis, femurs and      4 th  lumbar vertebrae were removed from -80"C and
   placed in a plastic (according to the manufacture guidance). The distal region of each
15 femur was scanned for trabecular and cortical bone parameters at an isotropic resolution of
   13.8 tm. Reconstruction was carried out employing a modified algorithm using the
   Skyscan Nrecon software (ver. 1.6.4, Skyscan). Volume of interest (VOI) was set to 0.8
   mm below growth plate, and extended distally for 1.5 mm. Trabecular and cortical
   segments within the VOI were extracted by depicting ellipsoid contours every ~5 slices
20 using the CT analysis software provided with the scanner (ver. 1.11 Skyscan). Trabecular
   and cortical BMD, bone volume (BV/TV, %), trabecular number (Th.N), trabecular
   thickness (Th.Th, tm), trabecular separation (Th.Sp, pm) along with the micro
   architectural parameters of trabecular bone pattern factor (TBPf) and structure model
   index (SMI) were calculated automatically by the CT analyzer software (ver. 1.11
25  Skyscan).
   The   4 th lumbar vertebra from each rat was scanned in a 13.8 Pam isotropic resolution and
   VOI was set to cover 1.25 mm thick cross section from the center of the vertebral body for
    evaluation of the trabecular and cortical parameters in the same procedure as described
    above for the femurs.

                                                  54
   Trial 6: Increasing bone mineral density in metabolic bone related disorders
   The inventors have conducted a study aiming to evaluate the effects of Amorphous
   Calcium Carbonate (ACC) on bone mineral density and bone fraction in metabolic bone
   disorders, and specifically osteoporosis as presented in the ovariectomized (OVX) rat
   model wherein the ACC is administered in combination with a standard medication for
 5 osteoporosis. In the present trial, five groups of rats were tested (4 OVX and 1 sham).
   Following operation, all rats were left untreated (fed with standard laboratory diet) to
   develop osteopenia for a period of 2 months. At the end of the induction period, the
   animals were treated with special food mixtures in the form of pellets from two different
   calcium sources: amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) or crystalline calcium carbonate
10 (CCC) (Table 16). Pellets from the two mixtures contained ~1% elemental calcium as
   confirmed by atomic absorption apparatus (Varian AA240, Palo Alto, CA, USA) with no
   added vitamin D, except for the amounts found in the original food pellets (22 IU vitamin
   D/g). In addition, the animals were i.v injected (3 times/week) with either saline or 2 tg/kg
   alendronate (ALN) according to their group assignment, as described in Table 16.
15    Table 16: Assignment of rats according to the treatment
                Group                                    Treatment
     Sham                   Low calcium diet (TDK95027, Harlan Inc.) containing 1% elemental
                            calcium from CCC (Socal@ Precipitated Calcium Carbonate) ad libitum
                 Sham       and subcutaneous injection of saline (0.9% NaCl, 100pd/100g b.w) 3
                            times\week.
     OVX                    Low calcium diet (TDK95027, Harlan Inc.) containing 1% elemental
                            calcium from CCC (Socal@ Precipitated Calcium Carbonate), ad libitum
                  CCC       and subcutaneous injection of saline (0.9% NaCl, 100tl/100g b.w) 3
                            times\week.
                            Low calcium diet (TDK95027, Harlan Inc.) containing 1% elemental
                            calcium from synthetic amorphous calcium carbonate [ACC (1%PS &
                 ACC        2% Citrate) provided by Mr. Oren Meiron, Amorphical] ad libitum and
                            subcutaneous injection of saline (0.9% NaCl, 100pl/100g b.w) 3
                            times\week.
                            Low calcium diet (TDK95027, Harlan Inc.) containing 1% elemental
                            calcium from CCC (Socal@ Precipitated Calcium Carbonate) ad libitum
              CCC+ALN       and subcutaneous injection of alendronate (2ptg/kg as1 00pl/100g b.w) 3
                            times\week.
                            Low calcium diet (TDK95027, Harlan Inc.) containing 1% elemental
                            calcium from synthetic amorphous calcium carbonate [ACC (1%PS &
              ACC+ALN       2% Citrate) provided by Mr. Oren Meiron, Amorphical] ad libitum, and
                            subcutaneous injection of alendronate (2pg/kg as 100pl/100g b.w) 3
                            times\week.
   OVX= ovariectomy; CCC= crystalline calcium carbonate;ACC= amorphous calcium carbonate;
   ALN= alendronate;PS=phosphoserine

                                                   55
   Table 17 presents the mean food consumption and body weight of the rats during the trial.
   A significant weight increase was observed in all OVX rats compared to sham. This is
   despite the fact that food consumption was similar among all groups.
 5
   Table 17: Mean food consumption and total body weight of the rats
                                                                     OVX
                                 Sham          CCC           ACC       CCC+ALN ACC+ALN
     Rat body weight            258 (16)      244 (18)      240 (21)     243 (14)   244 (16)
     (Day 0)
     Rat body weight            289 (14)      326 (19)      323 (26)     325 (15)   327 (17)
     (Day 60)
     Rat body weight            319 (18)      359(23)       360 (36)     353 (18)    355 (29)
     (Day 180)
     Weight gain (%)              24.5a         47.5          50.3          4645.4
     Mean food consumption 12.7 (0.73)       12.9 (0.34)   12.7 (0.82)  12.7 (0.72) 13.3 (1.4)
     (g/day)
    Values were recorded weekly. Weight gain represents the increased rate of weigh from the
   beginning to the end of the experiment. Values are representedas mean (SD). One-way ANOVA:
   p <0.05. Letters representsFisher-LSDpost hoc comparisontests.
10
   A micro-CT (pCT) three-dimensional schematic microarchitecture reconstruction of a
   representative distal femur and 4th vertebra from each group is presented in Figure 5. The
   reconstruction of the femoral trabecular metaphysis as well as the vertebral body enables
    differentiation of three distinct groups: the first group comprising the Sham with the
15  highest observed trabecular bone region (Fig. 5A), the second group comprising the OVX
    CCC with the lowest trabecular bone region (Fig. 5B) in comparison to all other groups, a
    third group comprising OVX-ACC and OVX-CCC+ALN with a modest increase in
    trabecular bone region in comparison to the CCC (Figs. 5C and 5D) and a fourth group
    comprising OVX-ACC+ALN with an additive increase in trabecular bone region
20  compared to the third group (Figure 5E).
    The differences between the four groups observed are also reflected in the trabecular bone
    mineral density (BMD) and in the morphometric analysis of the femur metaphysis and 4 th
    lumbar vertebra presented in Fig. 6 and Table 18.
    As illustrated in Fig. 6A-B, the trabecular femoral BMD of the Sham group was
25  significantly higher compared to all four OVX groups. Within the OVX groups, the
    trabecular femoral and vertebral BMD of the ACC treated group (Figs. 6A-B) were higher
    in comparison to the trabecular BMD of the CCC by 22% and 39%, respectively. The

                                                     56
   trabecular femoral and vertebral BMD of the CCC+ALN treated group were higher in
   comparison to the trabecular BMD of the CCC by 49% and 72%, respectively. The
   trabecular femoral and vertebral BMD of the ACC+ALN treated group were higher in
   comparison to the trabecular BMD of the CCC by 75% and 105%, respectively, and the
 5 addition of ACC to ALN instead of CCC increased the BMD by 26% and 33% in the
    femur and vertebra respectively, representing an additive positive effect on BMD values
    for ACC in combination with ALN.
    In contrast to the trabecular BMD, no differences between all groups were observed in the
    cortical bone BMD (Ct. BMD) of both the femur and vertebra (Table 18).
10
    Table 18: Morphometric microarchitectural analysis obtained by ICT scanning
                                      Sham                                 OVX
                                                     CCC          ACC         CCC+ALN      ACC+ALN
      (A)        Tb. N, mm  1       4.1(0.7)        1.5(0.3)    1.7(0.1)        2.3(0.3)    2.5(0.3)
      Femur      Tb. Sp, Lm         167 (41)       682(93)      584 (95)        360 (64)    323 (47)
                 Tb. Th, pm          111(9)         110(10)      112(7)          102(11)      105(7)
                 Ct. BMD,   g/cm3   750 (32)        756 (30)    750 (67)        741 (58)     771 (27)
                 TBPf, nmm          -7.0(6.4)      7.6(1.7)     6.1(1.0)        7.3(1.8)     6.3(1.2)
                 SMI                0.12(0.2)      1.66 (0.2)   1.50(0.1)       1.63 (0.2)  1.55 (0.1)
       (B)       Tb. N, mm-1        3.60 (0.7)     1.75 (0.5)  2.05 (0.7)       2.54 (0.3)  2.73 (0.3)
       Vertebra  Tb. Sp, ptm         199 (38)       374(87)    352 (101)         268 (42)    251 (37)
                 Tb. Th, pm          110 (17)      98.4(5.3)     107(13)         100(11)     109 (13)
                 Ct. BMD, g/cm 3    750 (32)       756 (30)     750 (67)         741 (58)    771 (27)
                 TBPf, mm-   1      -0.7(5.8)       8.5(3.2)    6.8(2.3)         4.8(1.8)    4.4(1.9)
                 SMI                0.61 (0.8)     1.62 (0.3)   1.56 (0.2)      1.28 (0.2)  1.22 (0.3)
      (A) Distalfemurs metaphysis. (B) 4* lumbar vertebras. Tb.N represents number of trabeculas
     within mm' area, Tb.Sp represents the mean distance between trabeculas,Tb.Th represents mean
     thickness of the trabeculas, TBPf represents trabecular bone pattern factor and SMI represents
15   structuralmodel index. Values are representedas mean (SD.
     Morphometric analysis of the distal femur metaphysis and        4 th vertebral body exhibited a
     significant decrease in the trabecular bone fraction (BV/TV) in all ovariectomized groups
     in comparison to the Sham. Within the femurs and the vertebras of the OVX groups, ACC
20   presented a significantly higher trabecular bone fraction in comparison to the CCC group
     by 34% and 23%, respectively. Similar results were also obtained for CCC+ALN group,
     which presented an increase of 37% in the femur and 46% in the vertebra in comparison to
     CCC. ACC in combination with ALN resulted in an increase of 56% in the femur and
     71% in the vertebra in comparison to CCC, and in an increase of 19% and 25% in the

                                                    57
    femur and vertebra, respectively, in comparison to ALN+CCC group, again representing
    an additive effect on increase in BV/TV values for ACC in combination with ALN (Fig.
    6C-D).
    A significant decrease in the trabecular number (Th.N) in all ovariectomized groups in
 5  comparison to the Sham was also observed in both the femur and vertebra. Within the
    femurs and vertebras of the OVX groups, ACC presented a higher trabecular number in
    comparison to the CCC group by an average of 17%. Higher results were obtained for
     CCC+ALN group, which presented an increase of 50% on average, in the femur vertebra
     in comparison to CCC. ACC in combination with ALN resulted in an average increase of
10   62% in the femur and vertebra in comparison to CCC, and in an average increase of 13%
     in the femur and vertebra, in comparison to ALN+CCC group, representing an additive
     effect on increase in Tb.N values for ACC in combination with ALN (Table 18).
     A significant increase in the trabecular separation (Th.Sp) in all ovariectomized groups in
     comparison to the Sham was observed in both the femur and vertebra. Within the femurs
15   and vertebras of the OVX groups, ACC presented lower separation number in comparison
     to the CCC group by an average of 11%. Lower results were obtained for CCC+ALN
      group, which presented a decrease of 38% on average, in the femur and vertebra in
      comparison to CCC. ACC in combination with ALN resulted in a similar decrease of 54%
      in the femur and vertebra in comparison to CCC, and in an averaged decrease of 16% in
20    the femur and vertebra, in comparison to ALN+CCC group, further supporting the
      additive effect of ACC in combination with ALN (Table 18).
      Analysis of the trabecular thickness (Th.Th) reveled no changes among all study groups in
      the femur, and only slight changes in the vertebra, manifested by an increase of only 12%
      in trabecular thickness in the Sham group compared to CCC, an increase of 9% in the
25    ACC group compared to CCC group, only 2% increase following ALN treatment in
      comparison to CCC alone and a small additive effect of ACC in combination with ALN
      reflected by an increase of 11% in Th.Th values, similar to the Sham group (Table 18).
      Microarchitectural analysis of topology and orientation parameters: trabecular bone
      pattern factor (TBPf) and structural model index (SMI) revealed that ovariectomy
 30    intervention resulted in an increase in TBPf and SMI values in both femur and vertebra. In
       the femur ACC treatment resulted in a greater decrease in TBPf and SMI values than
       CCC+ALN which had only a slight effect on these parameters in this region. Yet, in the

                                                  58
   vertebra, ACC treatment resulted in a smaller decrease in TBPf and SMI values compared
   to CCC+ALN. ACC+ALN treatment resulted in an additive averaged decrease of 12% in
   the femur and 37% in the vertebra for TBPf and SMI values in comparison to CCC
   treatment (Table 18).
 5 Experimental details
   Animals
   Fifty three 16 weeks old female Sprague Dawley rats (Harlan Inc., Jerusalem, Israel) with
   an average body weight of 246±17 g were group-housed in 26 cages (2-3 rats/cage) and
   acclimated under controlled room conditions (21±2C and 12-hours dark-light cycle).
10 During 7 days acclimation, rats were fed with standard laboratory diet containing 1%
    elemental calcium (#2018SC Rat chow, Harlan Inc. Jerusalem, Israel) and de-ionized
   water ad-libitum.
    For the administration of the different calcium sources, special food pellets were prepared.
    Low calcium rodent pellets containing 0.02% calcium (Rat chow #TD95027 Harlan Inc.,
15  Jerusalem, Israel) was finely grounded and separately mixed with two different calcium
    sources. A CCC mix containing 1%elemental calcium from crystalline calcium carbonate
    (Socal* Precipitated Calcium Carbonate), and an ACC mix containing 1% elemental
    calcium from stable amorphous calcium carbonate (containing 1%phosphoserine and 2%
    Citrate; Amorphical Ltd., Beer-Sheva, Israel). Every mix was separately pelleted and kept
20  in a sealed bag at room temperature.
    Following the 7 days acclimation period, rats were anesthetized by intraperitoneal (IP)
    injection of anesthetic solution (0.1ml/100g) containing Ketamine (Fort Dodge AH Ltd.
    Overland Park, USA) and Xylazine (EuroVet AH Ltd. Bladel, UK).
    Rats were randomly assigned and operated according to their assigned five groups: Sham
25  (sham-ovariectomized; n=9), and four other groups were ovariectomized (OVX) by a
    bilateral dorsal approach according to Lasota and Danowska-Klonowska (2004) Rocz
    Akad Med Bialymst 49 Suppl 1:129-131, and divided to OVX-CCC (n=10), OVX-ACC
    (n=10), OVX-CCC+ALN (n=12) and OVX-ACC+ALN (n=12). Following operation, rats
    were provided a 3 days recovery period through which they were treated with de-ionized
30  water containing 1.5 ml/400ml Dipyrone (Vitamed Ltd, Binyamina, Israel), and 1 mg/kg
    Enrofloxacin (Buyer Ltd. Leverkusen, Germany). The animals were left untreated under

                                                     59
   the same conditions as the acclimation period, standard laboratory diet ad-libitum for 2
   months to develop Osteopenia.
   Following 2 months, rats started treatment according to their assignment as described in
   Table 16 for a period of 4 months. The assigned supplemental pellets and de-ionized water
 5 were provided ad-libitum during the entire treatment period. Food consumption and body
   weight were recorded weekly (Table 17). At the end of the treatment period, all rats were
    sacrificed by CO 2 . Right femurs and    4 th lumbar vertebras were dissected, wrapped with
    gaze pads soaked with saline buffer and kept in -80"C for measurement of bone micro-CT
    scan.
10 Micro-computed tomography (uCT) scanning
    Trabecular and cortical bone microarchitecture of right femurs and       4 th lumbar vertebras
    were analyzed in a piCT scanner (Skyscan 1174, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
    Calibration of the scanner for bone mineral density (BMD) was performed according to
    manufacture instructions using a designated rat phantom rod with densities of 0.25 and
15  0.75 g/cm 3 (Skyscan, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
    Prior to scan analysis, femurs and    4 th   lumbar vertebrae were removed from -800C and
    placed in a plastic (according to the manufacture guidance). The distal region of each
    femur was scanned for trabecular and cortical bone parameters at an isotropic resolution of
    13.8 gm. Reconstruction was carried out employing a modified algorithm using the
20  Skyscan Nrecon software (ver. 1.6.4, Skyscan). Volume of interest (VOI) was set to 0.8
    mm below growth plate, and extended distally for 1.5 mm. Trabecular and cortical
    segments within the VOI were extracted by depicting ellipsoid contours every ~5 slices
    using the CTan analysis software provided with the scanner (ver. 1.11 Skyscan).
    Trabecular and cortical BMD, bone volume (BV/TV, %), trabecular number (Th.N),
25  trabecular thickness (Tb.Th, ptm), trabecular separation (Th.Sp, ptm) along with the micro
    architectural parameters of trabecular bone pattern factor (TBPf) and structure model
    index (SMI) were calculated automatically by the CT analyzer software (ver. 1.11
     Skyscan).
    The   4 th lumbar vertebra from each rat was scanned in a 13.8 ptm isotropic resolution and
30  VOI was set to cover 1.25 mm thick cross section from the center of the vertebral body for
     evaluation of the trabecular and cortical parameters in the same procedure as described
     above for the femurs.

                                                  60
   The results of the above trial confirmed that stable ACC has higher effect on bone mineral
   density and other bone parameters that CCC. Moreover, the administration of ACC in
   combination with standard medication for treatment of bone loss resulted in additive effect
   compared to CCC, allowing the decrease of bisphosphonate dosage and confirming that
 5 highly bioavailable ACC can be used for increasing bone mineral density and treating
   metabolic bone disorders, diseases and conditions alone or together with the conservative
   medications.
   Trial 7: Preventing or delaying the onset of metabolic bone disorders
   The inventors have conducted a study aiming to evaluate the effect calcium from stable
   Amorphous Calcium Carbonate (ACC) compared to crystalline calcium carbonate (CCC),
10 on the prevention of bone metabolic disorders and specifically osteoporosis as presented in
   the ovariectomized (OVX) rat model.
   In the study, five groups of rats were tested (4 ovariectomized and 1 sham). The OVX
   animals were fed with special food mixtures in the form of pellets from four different
   calcium sources: commercial crystalline calcium carbonate served as control (mix A),
15 natural ACC (Gastrolith powder) (mix B), synthetic ACC (comprising trace amounts of
   phospho-serine) (mix C), and commercial crystalline calcium citrate (mix D). Sham group
   was administrated with the same food as the control. Pellets from all four mixtures
    contained -0.5% elemental calcium as confirmed by atomic absorption apparatus (Varian
    AA240, Palo Alto, CA, USA) and described in Table 19 with no added vitamin D, except
20  for the amounts found in the original food pellets (22 IU vitamin D/g).
    Table 19: Elemental calcium content (% in weight) of the calcium source and specialized
    pellets as was measured by atomic absorption
                                         Carbonate       Gastrolith    ACC        Citrate
                                           (Mix A)        (Mix B)     (Mix C)     (Mix D)
         % Ca2 in the calcium source        34.54           28.1        33.0        18.3
         % Ca2 in the pellets                0.54           0.54        0.53       0.55
25

                                                     61
   The source of the calcium was obtained from: commercial crystalline CaCO 3 (Carbonate),
   gastrolith powder from the Australian crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus (Gastrolith),
   synthetic stable amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) and calcium citrate from a
   commercial supplement (Citrate). Values are representedas mean.
 5 Table 20 presents the mean food consumption and body weight of the rats during the trial.
   A significant weight increase was observed in all OVX rats compared to sham. This is
   despite the fact that food consumption was similar among all groups.
       Table 20: Mean food consumption and total body weight of the rats at the beginning
10     and at the end of the experiment
                                                                       OVX
                            Sham          Control          Gastrolith           ACC         Citrate
     Rat body weight       253 (3.5)      249 (3.3)          249 (5.2)         251 (4)     253 (4.7)
     (Day 0)
     Rat body weight       310 (8.3)      345 (5.8)          370 (6.4)        359 (4.2)    354 (5.6)
     (Day 90)
     Weight gain             22.5a          38.5b              48.5b             43b          40
     (%)__                                    _    _      __     _       _
     Mean food            15.2 (0.07)    15.2 (0.07)       15.2 (0.07)       15.1 (0.02)  15.2 (0.05)
     consumption                                        III
    Values were   recorded  weekly.  Weight gain  represents    the increased rate of weigh from the
    beginning to the end of the experiment. Values are  represented     as mean (SD). One-way ANOVA:
   p<0.05. Letters representsFisher-LSDpost hoc comparison         tests.
15  A RCT three-dimensional schematic microarchitecture reconstruction of a representative
    distal femur and 4th vertebra from each group is presented in Figure 7. The reconstruction
    of the femoral trabecular metaphysis as well as the vertebral body enables differentiation
    of three distinct groups: the first group comprising the Sham with the highest observed
    trabecular bone region (Fig. 7A), the second group comprising the OVX Control and
20  Citrate with the lowest trabecular bone region (Figs. 7B and 7E) in comparison to the
    Sham, and a third group comprising OVX Gast and ACC with a modest decrease in
    trabecular bone region in comparison to the Sham (Figs. 7C and 7D).
    The differences between the three groups observed are also reflected in the trabecular bone
    mineral density (BMD) and in the morphometric analysis of the femur metaphysis and 4 th
25  lumbar vertebra presented in Fig. 8, Fig. 9 and Table 21.

                                                    62
   As illustrated in Fig. 8A, the trabecular femoral BMD of the Sham group was significantly
   higher compared to all four OVX groups: the Control, Gast, ACC and Citrate with
   significant differences of 64%, 45%, 50% and 63%, respectively. Comparable values were
   also obtained in the trabecular vertebral BMD, presented in Fig. 8B, of the Sham group
 5 compared to all four OVX groups. Within the OVX groups, the trabecular femoral and
   vertebral BMD of Gast and ACC (Figs. 8A and 8B) were significantly higher in
   comparison to the trabecular BMD of the Control by 56% and 38% in the femur and 38%
   and 32% in the vertebra, respectively. No significant differences were observed in the
   trabecular femoral and vertebral BMD of the Citrate in comparison to the Control.
10 Comparison between the Gast and ACC groups revealed statistical differences of 13% in
   favor of Gast over the ACC in the trabecular femoral BMD and no difference in the
   trabecular vertebral BMD.
   In contrast to the trabecular BMD, no significant differences between all groups were
    observed in the cortical bone BMD (Ct. BMD) of both the femur and vertebra (Table 21).
15
    Table 21: Morphometric analysis and cortical bone mineral density (Ct.BMD) obtained
    by ptCT scanning
                                                                        OVX
                                    Sham       Control      Gastrolith         ACC         Citrate
    (A)        **Tb. N, mm-1      6.1a(0.9)    2.2b (0. 6 )  3.5c (0.6)     3.3c (0.5)    2.4b (0.5)
    Femur        Tb. Sp, pm       111a (28)    248            158c (46)     209d (74)    226d (7
                 Tb. Th, m       31.5a (5.3)  29.0 (0.8)     33.6a 3.5)    30.9c      .4 29.1 (2.0)
               Ct. BMD,            963 (51)    980 (57)       983 (62)       952 (53)     970 (53)
                 cm3
    (B)        **Tb. N, mm       3.98a (0.67)   7 6         2.29c (0.25)  2.24c (0.34)   1.59b(0.22)
    Vertebra   **Tb. Sp, pim       153a (28)   254b (74)      1974 (54)     2 2 9 ' (36)  262b (60)
                Tb. Th, pm        84.6 (7.3)   87.5 (6.4)    83.8 (20.3)    93.5 (6.9)    86.6 (8.5)
               Ct. BMD,           933 (55)     950 (50)       959 (56)      961 (57)      943 (68)
               g/cm
                    3
    (A) Distalfemurs metaphysis. (B) 4"' lumbar vertebras. Tb.N represents number of trabeculas
    within mm-1 area, Tb.Sp represents the mean distance between trabeculas, Tb.Th represents mean
20  thickness of the trabeculas. One-way ANOVA:*p<0.05, **p<0.01. Letters representsFisher-LSD
    post hoc comparison tests.
    Morphometric analysis of the distal femur metaphysis and 4 th vertebral body (Fig. 9 and
    Table 21) exhibited a significant decrease in the trabecular bone fraction (BV/TV) and its
    number (Tb.N) in all ovariectomized groups in comparison to the Sham. The Control
25  group was significantly lower by 65% on average in the distal femur (Fig. 9A and Table

                                                 63
   21A) and by 60% in the vertebra (Fig. 3B and Table 3B) in comparison to the Sham.
   Whereas the average of the OVX Gast and ACC groups in the distal femur was lower by
   only 41% and 49% in comparison to the Sham, and lower in 40% and 41% in the vertebra,
   respectively. Within the femurs of the OVX groups, Gast and ACC presented a
 5 significantly higher trabecular bone fraction and trabecular number in comparison to the
   Control by an average of 65% and 49%, respectively. Similar results were also obtained in
   the lumbar vertebra of the Gast and ACC groups with a higher average of 48% and 47% in
   comparison to Control, respectively. No significant differences were observed in the
   trabecular bone fraction and its number between the Citrate and the Control.
10 Comparison between the femurs of Gast and ACC groups revealed a significant difference
    in bone fraction, trabecular thickness and trabecular separation. According to the results
   presented in Fig. 9A and Table 21A, the femurs of Gast group exhibited a significant
    higher bone fraction of 16%, a higher trabecular thickness of 9% and a lower trabecular
    separation of 24% in comparison to ACC. A significantly higher trabecular thickness of
15  12% was also observed in the vertebra of Gast in comparison to ACC but no significant
    differences were observed in the rest of the morphometric parameters between Gast and
    ACC (Fig. 9B and Table 21B).
    The differences between the groups in the microarchitecture structure are further
    emphasized in the un-decalcified structural histomorphometric analysis of the proximal
20  tibia, presented in Table 22A. According to the results presented in Table 22A, all OVX
    groups, namely the Control, Gast, ACC and Citrate presented significantly lower
    trabecular bone fraction and condensed trabeculas values compared to the Sham (with an
    average of 55%, 19%, 32% and 55%, respectively). Moreover, the trabecular separation
    was significantly higher in all OVX groups in comparison to Sham (Table 22A) by 130%
25  for the Control, 30% for Gast, 60% for ACC and 148% for Citrate. Within the OVX
    groups, Gast and ACC presented a significantly higher trabecular bone fraction and
    trabecular number with an average of 80% and 50%, and a lower trabecular separation of
     44% and 31%, in comparison to Control, respectively. The Citrate group presented a
    higher significant trabecular thickness of 13% compared to Control. Comparison of
30   structural histomorphometric parameters between Gast and ACC groups revealed a
     significant difference in bone fraction, trabecular number and trabecular separation.
     According to Table 22A, Gast group presented higher bone fraction and trabecular number

                                                   64
   of 19% and 21%, in comparison to ACC and a lower trabecular separation value of 20% in
   comparison to ACC, respectively.
   Table 22: Histomorphometric analysis of un-decalcified sections from the proximal tibias
                                                                        OVX
                                           Sham       Control  Gastrolith    ACC      Citrate
     (A)         *BV/TV, %                  28.5a      12.8b       23c       19.4d      12.86
     Structural                             (4.1)       (2.1)     (3.3)      (2.8       (1.4)
                 *Tb. N, mm-1                5.6"        2.5b      4.5c       3.7        2.3b
                                            (0.6)       (0.5)     (0.4)       (0.8)     (0.3)
                   Tb. Sp, [Lm               128a       296"       166c       205       318b
                                             (25)        (44)      (15)       (43)       (42)
                   *Tb.Th, Lm               51.2ab      47. a    51.6""      54.8b        53b
                                             (6.2)      (6.0)     (7.1)       (7.7)     (9.9)
     (B)                          2
                  **BFR/BS, pm pm/day       0.145a     0.164a    0.214b      0.206     0.159a
     Dynamic                               (0.026)     0.021)   (0.025)     (0.027)   (0.019)
                   MS/BS, %                  8.04a      8.31a                1 1.09b    8.25a
                                            (1.53)     (1.42)    (1.36)      (1.18)    (1.44)
                 MAR,     mnn/day             1.26       1.30      1.34        1.29      1.40
                                            (0.26)     (0.19)    (0.25)      (0.21     (0.20)
       (A) Structuralparameters were analyzedfrom 4 pm stained sections (MacNeal). (B) Dynamic
 5     parameterswere analyzedfrom un-decalcifiedsections double-labeledwith calceinfluorescent
       dye. All values were calculated using the BIOQUANT Image software analysis (Bioquant
       OSTEO, ver. 7.20.10). One-way ANOVA: *p<0.05, **p<0.01, Letters represents Fisher-LSD
       post hoc comparison tests.
10 The results of the dynamic histomorphometry analysis are presented in Table 22B.
   According to the results, no significant differences were observed in the bone formation
    rate to bone surface (BFR/BS) and mineralizing surface to bone surface (MS/BS) of the
    OVX Control and Citrate groups in comparison to Sham. On the other hand, bone
    formation rate of the OVX Gast and ACC were 53% and 50% higher, in comparison to
15  Sham, and MS/BS of the OVX Gast and ACC presented similar elevations of 44% and
    38%, respectively compared to the sham. Within the OVX groups, Gast and ACC
    presented a significant higher bone formation rate of 38% and 35%, and significant higher
    MS/BS of 40% and 33%, in comparison to Control, respectively. The OVX Citrate group
    presented no significant difference from to the Control but a statistical lower bone
20  formation rate of 28% from Gast and 26% from ACC. MS/BS of the OVX Citrate group
    was similar to that of the Control and significantly lower by 29% and 26% from the Gast
    and ACC groups, respectively.

                                                  65
   Mineral apposition rate (MAR) revealed no significant differences in all OVX groups
   compared to Sham, and no differences of the OVX Gast, ACC and Citrate in comparison
   to Control. EIA kit assessment of bone turnover by serum osteocalcin (OC) formation
   marker and urine deoxypyridinoline (DPD) resorption marker of each group at the end of
 5 the experiment (day 90) are presented in Table 23. Both markers were evaluated for
   baseline prior to randomization (at day 0, data not shown).
   Table 23: Assessment of serum osteocalcin (OC) formation marker and urine
    deoxypyridinoline (DPD) resorption marker for each group at day 90
                                                                  OVX
                            Sham
                                         Control       Gastrolith         ACC          Citrate
       *DPD                 13.75a        36.65be       29.823           2 2 . 59 ad    43.55
      (nmol/mmol Cr)        (5.44)        (31.16)        (16.56)         (11.09)       (22.97)
        OC (ng/ml)        10.0a (4.8)   14.8a(6.4)     14.72a (8.7)     12.7a(6.8)    15.7a (8.4)
10  One-way ANOVA: *p<0.05
    At day 90, significant higher DPD levels were observed in all OVX groups compared to
    the Sham, except for the ACC group that presented a non-significant difference from the
    Sham, and a significant lower DPD level from the Control (39%), and Citrate (48%)
15  groups. The Gast group presented lower level from the Control (19%) and higher DPD
    level from the ACC (32%) groups. DPD levels from Gast were not statistically lower than
    the Citrate but presented a difference of 31%. In the serum OC marker, no significant
     changes were observed between any of the groups.
     The results from the mechanical strength analysis of the  5 th lumbar vertebra are presented
20   in Figure 10. According to the results, the mechanical strength properties of the OVX
     Control, Gast and Citrate were significantly lower in comparison to Sham by an average of
     41%, 40% and 40%, respectively. Whereas, the mechanical strength values of the ACC
     group were significantly lower by an average of 17% in comparison to the Sham. These
     differences were statistically significant in most parameters evaluated, except for the
25   ultimate force parameter which was not statistically different (Figure 10D). Within the
     OVX groups, ACC group presented significantly higher values in comparison to the
     Control in every tested parameter: ultimate force (Figure 10A), energy to ultimate force

                                                   66
    (Figure 10B), toughness (Figure 10C) and energy to yield (Figure 10D) by an average of
    37%, 49%, 29% and 65%, respectively. These differences are also reflected in the in the
    higher values of OVX ACC in comparison to the Gast and Citrate groups with an average
    of 42% and 37%, respectively. The OVX Gast and Citrate groups did not present any
 5  statistical difference to the Control or between them in any of the mechanical strength
    parameters tested.
    Micro-CT analysis of the 4th-lumbar vertebra showed that the trabecular bone pattern
     factor (TBPf) is far lower (91% on average) in the sham group than in the OVX-control,
     OVX-gastrolith and OVX-citrate groups. The TBPf of the sham group was, however,
10   lower (61%) than what was measured for the OVX-ACC group. Within the OVX groups,
     the TBPf of the OVX-ACC groups was significantly lower than that of the OVX-control,
     OVX-citrate and OVX-gastrolith groups by an average of 33% (Figure 10E; p< 0.001).
     Structural model index (SMI) evaluation points to the same trend, being significantly
     lower in the sham group, compared to the OVX-control, OVX-gastrolith and OVX-citrate
15    groups (43% on average). The SMI of the sham group was, however, lower (30%) than
     what was measured for the OVX-ACC group. Here, values obtained with the OVX-ACC
      group were significantly lower that what was measured for the OVX-control and OVX
      citrate groups (14% on average). At the same time, SMI values obtained with the OVX
      ACC group were reduced relative to the index measured with the OVX-gastrolith group
20    (Figure 10F; p< 0.001). The last micro-architectural parameter measured, namely the
      degree of anisotropy (DA), was lower in the sham group, compared to the OVX-control,
      OVX-gastrolith and OVX-citrate groups, by 22% on average. No significant differences in
      DA was observed between the sham and OVX-ACC groups, or among all OVX groups,
      although OVX-ACC showed lower values that measured with the other OVX groups
25    (Figure 10G; p< 0.001).
      Experimental details
      Animals
       One hundred and one 16-17 weeks old female Sprague Dawley rats (Harlan Inc.,
       Jerusalem, Israel) with an average body weight of 250±16 g were group-housed in 33
 30    cages (~3 rats/cage) and acclimated under controlled room conditions (21 2*C and 12
       hours dark-light cycle). During 7 days acclimation, rats were fed with standard laboratory
       diet containing 1% elemental calcium (#2018SC Rat chow, Harlan Inc. Jerusalem, Israel)

                                                  67
    and de-ionized water ad-libitum. Following the 7 days acclimation period, rats were
    housed individually in metabolic cages and deprived from food and water for 18h. Urine
    was collected from each metabolic funnel and was stored at -80*C for future analysis of
    bone resorption biochemical marker at baseline (time 0).
 5  For the administration of the different calcium sources, special food pellets containing
    were prepared. Low calcium rodent pellets containing 0.02% calcium (Rat chow
    #TD95027 Harlan Inc., Jerusalem, Israel) was finely grounded and separately mixed with
    four different calcium sources. A control mix containing calcium carbonate from a
    commercial supplement (mix A), Gast mix containing gastrolith powder harvested from
10  the Australian crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus(mix B) (Ben's farm, Beer Tzofar, Israel),
    ACC mix containing stable amorphous calcium carbonate and P-serine (P-Ser) (mix C)
     (Batch #ETS001, Amorphical Ltd., Beer-sheva, Israel) and the Citrate mix containing
     calcium citrate from a commercial supplement (mix D). Every mix was separately pelleted
     and kept in a sealed bag at room temperature.
15   Immediately after urine sampling, rats were anesthetized using intraperitoneal (IP)
     injection of anesthetic solution (0.1ml/100g) containing Ketamine (Fort Dodge AH Ltd.
     Overland Park, USA) and Xylazine (EuroVet AH Ltd. Bladel, UK). Blood was sampled
     from rat's tail (approximately 180pil) and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3000g using a
     tabletop centrifuge (Hettich Zentrifugen, Bach, Switzerland) for serum extraction. Serum
20   samples were stored at -80*C for future analysis of bone formation biochemical marker at
     baseline (Time 0).
     Rats were randomly assigned and operated according to their assigned five groups: Sham
      (sham-Ovariectomized) fed with mix A, and four other groups were ovariectomized
      (OVX) using a bilateral dorsal approach according to Lasota and Danowska-Klonowska
25    (2004) Rocz Akad Med Bialymst 49 Suppl 1:129-131, and divided to OVX Control (fed
      with mix A), OVX Gast (fed with mix B), OVX ACC (fed with mix C) and OVX Citrate
      (fed with mix D). Following operation, rats were provided a 7 days recovery period under
      the same conditions as the acclimation period, standard laboratory diet ad-libitum and de
      ionized water containing 1.5 ml/400ml Dipyrone (Vitamed Ltd, Binyamina, Israel), and 1
 30   mg/kg Enrofloxacin (Buyer Ltd. Leverkusen, Germany).
      Experimental treatment

                                                   68
   At the end of the recovery period the rats were group-housed in 47 cages (2 rats/cage)
   according to the group assignment, under the same controlled room conditions as
   described above. The assigned supplemental pellets and de-ionized water were provided
   ad-libitum during the entire treatment period (90 days). Food consumption and body
 5 weight were recorded weekly (Table 2). For dynamic histomorphometric analysis
   fluorochrom dye Calcein (20 mg/kg body mass; Sigma-Aldrich, Israel) was IP injected to
   all rats at days 76 and 86. On day 90, rats were individually housed in metabolic cages
   and deprived from food and water for 18h. Urine was collected from each metabolic
   funnel and was stored at -80'C for future analysis of bone resorption biochemical marker
10 at end of the experiment (Time 90). Immediately after urine sampling, serum samples
   were extracted for evaluation of formation biochemical marker of day 90 and stored in the
    same manner as described at day 0. All rats were sacrificed by CO 2 .Right femurs and 4 th
    lumbar vertebras were dissected, wrapped with gaze pads soaked with saline buffer and
    kept in -80"C for measurement of bone micro-CT scan. The 5 th lumbar vertebras were
15  stored in the same conditions as the right femurs for mechanical testing. Right tibias were
    dissected and placed immediately for 24h at 4'C in 3.7% formaldehyde solution (F1636,
    Sigma-Aldrich, Israel) for structural and dynamic histomorphometric measurements.
    Micro-computedtomography (pCT)scanning
    Trabecular and cortical bone microarchitecture of right femurs and     4 th lumbar vertebras
20  were analyzed using a ptCT scanner (Skyscan 1174, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
    Calibration of the scanner for bone mineral density (BMD) was performed according to
    manufacture instructions using a designated rat phantom rod with densities of 0.25 and
    0.75 g/cm 3 (Skyscan, Kartuizersweg Kontich, Belgium).
    Prior to scan analysis, femurs and      4 th lumbar vertebrae were removed from -80*C,
25  transferred to new gauze pads soaked with 70% ethanol and placed in a plastic vial filled
     with 70% ethanol (according to the manufacture guidance). The distal region of each
     femur was scanned for trabecular and cortical bone parameters at an isotropic resolution of
     13.8 ptm. Reconstruction was carried out employing a modified algorithm using the
     Skyscan Nrecon software (ver. 1.6.4, Skyscan). Volume of interest (VOI) was set to 0.5
30   mm below growth plate, and extended distally for 1.5 mm. Trabecular and cortical
     segments within the VOI were extracted by depicting ellipsoid contours every -5 slices
     using the CTan analysis software provided with the scanner (ver. 1.11 Skyscan).

                                                  69
   Trabecular and cortical BMD, bone volume (BV/TV, %), trabecular number (Th.N),
   trabecular thickness (Th.Th, pm), and trabecular separation (Th.Sp, gm) were calculated
   automatically by the CTan analyzer software (ver. 1.11 Skyscan).
   The   4 th lumbar vertebra from each rat was scanned in a 13.8 pm isotropic resolution and
 5 VOI was set to cover 2.0 mm thick cross section from the center of the vertebral body.
   Trabecular and cortical bone parameters were evaluated in the vertebral body, set to cover
   a VOI of a 2-mm thick cross-section, starting 0.14 mm below the cranial growth plate. In
    addition to the same trabecular and cortical bone parameters as studied for the distal
    femur, the topology parameters: i.e, trabecular bone pattern factor (TBPf) and structural
10 model index (SMI); and the trabecular orientation parameter, degree of anisotropy (DA)
    were also measured in the vertebral body.
     Histomorphometry
    Right tibias were removed from the formaldehyde solution and dehydrated through an
    ethanol gradient, cleared using xylene (24250521, Bio-Lab Ltd. Haifa, Israel), and
15  infiltrated with 80% methylmethacrylate (MMA; M5599, Sigma Aldrich, Rehovot, Israel)
    + 20% dibutyl phthalate (DBP; 61-5062, Merck Ltd, Hohenbrunn, Germany) for 3 days at
    4*C. Specimens were then transferred to MMA + DBP + Benozoyl peroxide (617008,
    Merck Ltd, Hohenbrunn, Germany) solution for another 6 days infiltration at 4*C.
    Following infiltration procedure, specimens were embedded in MMA + DBP + 2.5%
20  Benozoyl peroxide under a temperature gradient (from 38*C to 50*C over a period of 4
    days). Mid-sagittal (4 tm) un-decalcified sections from each specimen were cut using a
    Lecia RM 2025 microtome (Lecia Instruments Ltd, Petach Tikva, Israel) connected to
    tungsten carbide knifes (Disposable blade; TC65, Rhenium Inc. Bet-Nekufa, Israel). Most
     sections were stained with McNeal's tetrachrome for structural histomorphometry. The
25   remaining sections were left unstained for dynamic histomorphometry.
     Measurement of both structural and dynamic histomorphometry of the proximal tibia
     metaphisyes were obtained using a semi-automatic analysis system (Bioquant OSTEO,
     ver. 7.20.10, BIOQUANT Image Analysis Corporation Nashville, USA) which is
     connected to a microscope (Nikon Optiphot 2, Kingston, England) equipped with
30   fluorescent light source.
     Histomorphometric parameters such as bone volume (BV/TV, %), trabecular number
     (Th.N), trabecular thickness (Th.Th, ptm), trabecular separation (Th.Sp, jpm), bone

                                                  70
   formation rate/bone sample (BFR/BS), mineralizing surface/bone surface (MS/BS) and
   mineral apposition rate (MAR) were calculated using the BIOQUANT Image software
   analysis (Bioquant OSTEO, ver. 7.20.10).
   Evaluationof bone turnover biochemical markers
 5 Serum Osteocalcin (OC) concentration was determined by EIA kit (#BT-490, Biomedical
   Technologies Inc. Stoughtone, USA) following a 1:10 serum dilution.
   Urinary Deoxypyridinoline (DPD) concentration was determined by commercial EIA kit
   (#8007, Qudiel Inc. San Diego, USA) following a 1:50 dilution. DPD levels were
   normalized to Creatinine levels (#8009, Qudiel Inc. San Diego, USA).
10 Mechanicalstrength of the 5 ' lumbar vertebra
   Mechanical properties (Ultimate force, Energy to ultimate force, Toughness and Energy to
   yield) were obtained from the compression tests of         5 th lumbar vertebral body (L5).
    Calculation of the material properties were performed by measuring the height of the
    vertebral body and the average of caudal and cranial diameters using a caliper. Cross
15  sectional area (CSA) and bone volume (BV) were obtained by ptCT scanning that covered
    the entire bone including both trabecular and cortical shell.
    StatisticalAnalysis
    Results are expressed herein as means +SEM. One-way ANOVA and Fisher-LSD post hoc
    comparison tests were performed using STATISTICA 6.1 software (StaSoft, Tulsa, OK).
20  Ap value < 0.05 was deemed significant.
    The results of the above trial confirmed that stable ACC has higher effect on bone mineral
    density and other bone parameters that CCC in study group susceptible to the development
    of osteoporosis. The superior bioavailability of ACC allows the use thereof for preventing
    or delaying the onset of metabolic bone disorders, diseases and conditions.
25  Although embodiments of the invention have been described by way of illustration, it will
    be understood that the invention may be carried out with many variations, modifications,
    and adaptations, without exceeding the scope of the claims.

                                              71
CLAIMS
1.  A method of increasing calcium gastrointestinal (GI) absorption in a subject
    susceptible to development of a bone metabolism associated disorder, said method
    comprises administering to said subject a composition comprising stable amorphous
    calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer, wherein the GI absorption
    of calcium from said composition is at least 1.9 times higher than from a
    corresponding composition comprising an equivalent dose of crystalline calcium
    carbonate.
2.  A method according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a postmenopausal woman.
3.  A method of enhancing a bone mineral density in a subject suffering from a bone
    metabolism associated disorder, disease or condition, wherein the method comprises
    administering an effective amount of a composition comprising stable amorphous
    calcium carbonate (ACC) comprising at least one stabilizer, in combination with a
    bisphosphonate, wherein the bisphosphonate is administered in a dose lower than the
    standard therapeutic dose.
4.  The method according to claim 3, wherein the bisphosphonate is selected from
    Alendronate, Risedronate, Tiludronate, Ibandronate, Zolendronate, Pamidronate,
    Etidronate, and salts and esters thereof.
5.  The method according to claim 4, wherein the bisphosphonate is Alendronate.
6.  The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said stabilizer is selected
    from the group consisting of organic acids, phosphoric or sulfuric esters of hydroxy
    carboxylic acids hydroxyl bearing organic compounds, and one or more carboxylic
    acids.
7.  The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer comprises at least one
    component selected from phosphoric esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids and hydroxyl
    bearing organic compounds.
8.   The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer is a hydroxyl bearing
    organic compound selected from mono-, di-, tri-, oligo- and poly-saccharides.

                                               72
9.  The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer comprises hydroxyl bearing
    organic compounds, further combined with at least one alkali hydroxide.
10. The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer is a carboxylic acid or a
    plurality of carboxylic acids.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein said one or more carboxylic acids are
    selected from citric acid, tartaric acid or malic acid.
12. The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer comprises at least one
    compound selected from the group consisting of phosphorylated amino acids,
    phosphorylated peptides, chitin together with at least one peptide, and polyol together
    with alkaline hydroxide.
13. The method according to claim 6, wherein said stabilizer comprises at least one
    component selected from phosphorylated amino acids and polyols.
14. The method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the phosphorylated amino acids are
    present in oligopeptides or polypeptides.
15. The method according to any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein phosphorylated amino
    acids are selected from phosphoserine and phosphothreonine.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
