                                        ABSTRACT
        A system, method and media for providing a simplified, personalized tax
interview to a user preparing a tax return for a taxpayer by determining which portions of
a full tax interview are relevant to the return being prepared and then presenting only
those relevant portions to the user. To make this determination, one or more prototypes
(each representing one or more underlying characteristics associated with the return
that inform the relevant portions of the tax interview) are determined for the return
based on information already known before the tax interview is presented and may be
updated based on information entered during the tax interview.

400
       INGEST PRESCREEN         402
              DATA
    DETERMINE APPLICABLE        404
          PROTOTYPES
                                406
      PRESENT RELEVANT
        PORTIONS OF TAX
           INTERVIEW
      RECEIVE RESPONSES         408
           FROM USER
      UPDATE APPLICABLE         410
          PROTOTYPES
                        41 2
          ADDITIONAL         YES
        PORTIONS OF TAX
          INTERVI EW?
                  NO
     PREPARE TAX RETURN         414
     BASED ON RESPONSES
           FIG. 4

                               SIMPLIFIED TAX INTERVIEW
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This non-provisional patent application shares certain subject matter with
earlier-filed U.S. Patent Application No. 14/549,276, filed November 20, 2014, and
entitled "SIMPLIFIED SCREENING FOR PREDICTING ERRORS IN TAX RETURNS,"
and earlier-filed U.S. Patent Application No. 14/134,846, filed December 19, 2013, and
entitled "METHOD, SYSTEM, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR PREDICTING TAX
LIABILITIES AND BENEFITS." The identified earlier-filed patent applications are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety into the present application.
BACKGROUND
1.      Field
[0002]       Embodiments of the invention generally relate to acquiring tax data for a
taxpayer as part of the process of preparing and filing a tax return with a government
tax authority and, more particularly, to using information gathered from prior tax returns,
imported tax forms, and unstructured data associated with the user to determine
portions of a tax interview relevant to the taxpayer's tax circumstances and present only
those relevant portions of the tax interview to the user without presenting the full tax
interview.
2.      Related Art
[0003]      Traditionally, preparing a tax return by or on behalf of a taxpayer has been a
laborious task. Because the same basic return (with minor variations) serves for all
taxpayers, it must necessarily be comprehensive to address the various sources of
income, deductions, and credits that any taxpayer might claim. To reduce the
                                               1

complexity and burden of preparing an individual tax return, tax-preparation services
such as H&R Block@ provide a tax interview at the beginning of the process of
preparing the return so that categories of questions and entries that are not relevant to
the individual taxpayer can be omitted. However, even with such a tax interview, the
process of preparing a return remains burdensome, and abbreviating a tax interview too
far runs the risk that one or more relevant categories of questions will be skipped, either
due to the taxpayer misunderstanding the interview question, or forgetting one or more
items of tax data that could make it relevant to them. Such an omission could lead to an
overpayment of taxes, or an underpayment (resulting in back taxes and penalties when
the error is discovered). Accordingly, there is a need for a simplified tax interview
process that determines which questions are relevant to a particular return and presents
only those questions to the preparer without presenting the full tax interview.
SUMMARY
[0004]     Embodiments of the invention address the above problem by applying an
analysis of a large volume of completed tax returns to data from the taxpayer's past
returns and imported tax form data to accurately determine which prototypes (each of
which represents one or more underlying characteristics associated with the return that
inform the relevant portions of the tax interview) apply to a return to predict which
categories of questions are relevant to the preparation of a particular return. In a first
embodiment, the invention includes a system for presenting a simplified tax interview to
a taxpayer, comprising a data store storing a plurality of tax returns, a typecasting
engine comprising a classifier operable to determine a prototype for a tax return being
classified based on values of a plurality of indicator variables associated with prescreen
                                              2

data for the tax return being classified, a data import engine, operable to import tax data
for the taxpayer for a prior tax return, download one or more tax forms corresponding to
the taxpayer, and based at least on the tax data and the tax forms, determine one or
more values for the indicator variables for the tax return being classified, and a user
interface engine operable to present a portion of a full tax interview to the taxpayer
without presenting the full tax interview, wherein the portion is selected based on the
prototype determined by the classifier and is personalized to the taxpayer's tax data.
[0005]     In a second embodiment, the invention includes a method of presenting a
simplified tax interview to a taxpayer, comprising the steps of importing prescreen data
associated with a tax return for the taxpayer, comparing said prescreen data to a
plurality of indicator variables, identifying at least one prototype based on said
comparing, identifying a first portion of a full tax interview based on the at least
prototype, and without presenting a full tax interview, presenting the identified first
portion of the full tax interview to the taxpayer.
[0006]     In a third embodiment, the invention includes one or more computer-readable
media storing computer-executable instructions which, when executed by computer
perform a method of determining a simplified tax interview for a taxpayer, the method
comprising the steps of importing tax data relating to a plurality of previously prepared
tax returns from a data store storing said tax data, applying cluster analysis to said tax
data to generate a plurality of clusters, each of said clusters including a plurality of
previously prepared tax returns, based on said clusters, determining a plurality of
prototypes,    for each      prototype,   determining one   or more    indicator variables
                                                3

corresponding to said prototype, and storing said prototypes and said indicator variables
in a prototype data store.
[0007]      This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified
form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not
intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor
is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects
and advantages of the current invention will be apparent from the following detailed
description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIGURES
[0008]      Embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to
the attached drawing figures, wherein:
[0009]      FIG. 1 depicts an exemplary hardware platform that can form one element of
certain embodiments of the invention;
[0010]      FIG. 2 depicts a system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention;
[0011]      FIG. 3 depicts a flowchart illustrating the operation of one embodiment of the
invention; and
[0012]      FIG. 4 depicts a flowchart illustrating the operation of another embodiment of
the present invention.
[0013]      The drawing figures do not limit the invention to the specific embodiments
disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis
instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.
                                               4

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]     The subject matter of embodiments of the invention is described in detail
below to meet statutory requirements; however, the description itself is not intended to
limit the scope of claims. Rather, the claimed subject matter might be embodied in other
ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in
this document, in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Minor variations
from the description below will be obvious to one skilled in the art, and are intended to
be captured within the scope of the claimed invention. Terms should not be interpreted
as implying any particular ordering of various steps described unless the order of
individual steps is explicitly described.
[0015]     The following detailed description of embodiments of the invention references
the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention
can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in
sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other
embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the
scope of the invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in
a limiting sense. The scope of embodiments of the invention is defined only by the
appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are
entitled.
[0016]      In this description, references to "one embodiment," "an embodiment," or
"embodiments" mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at
least one embodiment of the technology. Separate reference to "one embodiment" "an
embodiment", or "embodiments" in this description do not necessarily refer to the same
                                             5

embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and/or except as will
be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example, a
feature, structure, or act described in one embodiment may also be included in other
embodiments, but is not necessarily included. Thus, the technology can include a
variety of combinations and/or integrations of the embodiments described herein.
OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT FOR EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0017]     Turning first to FIG. 1, an exemplary hardware platform that can form one
element of certain embodiments of the invention is depicted. Computer 102 can be a
desktop computer, a laptop computer, a server computer, a mobile device such as a
smartphone or tablet, or any other form factor of general- or special-purpose computing
device. Depicted with computer 102 are several components, for illustrative purposes.
In some embodiments, certain components may be arranged differently or absent.
Additional components may also be present. Included in computer 102 is system bus
104, whereby other components of computer 102 can communicate with each other. In
certain embodiments, there may be multiple busses or components may communicate
with each other directly. Connected to system bus 104 is central processing unit (CPU)
106. Also attached to system bus 104 are one or more random-access memory (RAM)
modules. Also attached to system bus 104 is graphics card 110. In some embodiments,
graphics card 104 may not be a physically separate card, but rather may be integrated
into the motherboard or the CPU 106. In some embodiments, graphics card 110 has a
separate graphics-processing unit (GPU)         112, which can be used for graphics
processing or for general purpose computing (GPGPU). Also on graphics card 110 is
GPU memory 114. Connected (directly or indirectly) to graphics card 110 is display 116
                                            6

for user interaction. In some embodiments no display is present, while in others it is
integrated into computer 102. Similarly, peripherals such as keyboard 118 and mouse
120 are connected to system bus 104. Like display 116, these peripherals may be
integrated into computer 102 or absent. Also connected to system bus 104 is local
storage 122, which may be any form of computer-readable media, and may be internally
installed in computer 102 or externally and removeably attached.
[0018]      Computer-readable     media include both volatile and nonvolatile media,
removable and nonremovable media, and contemplate media readable by a database.
For example, computer-readable media include (but are not limited to) RAM, ROM,
EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile discs
(DVD), holographic media or other optical disc storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic
tape, magnetic disk storage, and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies
can store data temporarily or permanently. However, unless explicitly specified
otherwise, the term "computer-readable media" should not be construed to include
physical, but transitory, forms of signal transmission such as radio broadcasts, electrical
signals through a wire, or light pulses through a fiber-optic cable. Examples of stored
information include computer-useable instructions, data structures, program modules,
and other data representations.
[0019]      Finally, network interface card (NIC) 124 is also attached to system bus 104
and allows computer 102 to communicate over a network such as network 126. NIC 124
can be any form of network interface known in the art, such as Ethernet, ATM, fiber,
Bluetooth, or Wi-Fi (i.e., the IEEE 802.11 family of standards). NIC 124 connects
computer 102 to local network 126, which may also include one or more other
                                              7

computers, such as computer 128, and network storage, such as data store 130.
Generally, a data store such as data store 130 may be any repository from which
information can be stored and retrieved as needed. Examples of data stores include
relational or object oriented databases, spreadsheets, file systems, flat files, directory
services such as LDAP and Active Directory, or email storage systems. A data store
may be accessible via a complex API (such as, for example, Structured Query
Language), a simple API providing only read, write and seek operations, or any level of
complexity in between. Some data stores may additionally provide management
functions for data sets stored therein such as backup or versioning. Data stores can be
local to a single computer such as computer 128, accessible on a local network such as
local network 126, or remotely accessible over Internet 132. Local network 126 is in turn
connected to Internet 132, which connects many networks such as local network 126,
remote network 134 or directly attached computers such as computer 136. In some
embodiments, computer 102 can itself be directly connected to Internet 132.
OPERATION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0020]     At a high level, embodiments of the invention provide a system, method and
media for providing a simplified, personalized tax interview to a user preparing a tax
return for a taxpayer by determining which portions of a full tax interview are relevant to
the tax return being prepared and then presenting only those relevant portions to the
user without presenting the full tax interview. To make this determination, one or more
prototypes are determined for the taxpayer's tax return based on information either
already known before the tax interview is presented or gathered during presentation of
the tax interview. As discussed in detail below, a prototype is one or more underlying
                                             8

characteristics associated with a tax return that informs the relevant portions of the
personalized tax interview. These prototypes can be automatically generated by data
mining prior tax returns or manually added based on tax professional subject-matter
expertise, as also discussed further below.
[0021]     In general, a full tax interview is the complete set of questions (and
corresponding responses by the user), which would be needed to complete a tax return
for a returning user. Of course, the invention is not limited to use by returning users,
new users may provide the basic demographic and profile information when using the
system for the first time. For an individual taxpayer, many questions of a full tax
interview are irrelevant to the taxpayer's tax situation. As an example, if the taxpayer
has no dependents, then it is irrelevant to ask the taxpayer if there are childcare
expenses for the Child and Dependent Care Credit offered by the IRS. In this case, the
full tax interview is shortened because the taxpayer is not asked about childcare
expenses. However, in other embodiments of the invention, the personalized tax
interview may be specific to received tax data items. For example, and as discussed in
detail below, if the taxpayer has unemployment income, this information may be used to
trigger asking the taxpayer about any job-hunting expenses. Therefore, embodiments of
the invention advantageously personalize the full tax interview presented to the client
based on the prototypes relevant to the taxpayer's tax situation.
[0022]     It should be appreciated that the tax situation and tax data items discussed
herein relate to a particular taxpayer, although a user of the invention may be the
taxpayer or a third party operating on behalf of the taxpayer, such as a professional tax
preparer ("tax professional") or an authorized agent of the taxpayer. Therefore, use of
                                            9

the term "taxpayer" herein is intended to encompass either or both of the taxpayer and
any third party operating on behalf of the taxpayer. Additionally, a taxpayer may
comprise an individual filing singly, a couple filing jointly, a business, or a self-employed
filer. Furthermore, the term "full tax interview," as used herein, is the complete set of
questions (and corresponding responses by the user), which would be needed to
complete a tax return for a returning user. Thus demographic or other profile (such as
the taxpayer's address) would not be a part of the full tax interview, but questions
related to that information (such as "Has your address changed in the past year?")
might be.
Identification of Prototypes and Classification of Returns By Typecasting Engine
[0023]      To present a personalized tax interview to the taxpayer that is specific to the
taxpayer's tax situation but that also insures no required questions or information is
omitted from the tax interview, embodiments of the invention include a typecasting
engine that statistically analyzes a large volume of previously filed tax returns from a
plurality of disparate taxpayers. The typecasting engine broadly comprises a statistical
analyzer 204, a prototype data store 208, and a classifier 210. The goal of the
typecasting engine is to identify prototypes that, when relevant to an individual taxpayer
or tax return, would inform or otherwise change the presented tax interview so as to
personalize the interview. The typecasting engine then stores the identified prototypes
in the prototype data store for retrieval during generation and presentation of a
particular personalized tax interview to a taxpayer, as discussed below.
[0024]      As briefly noted above, a prototype is one or more underlying characteristics
of a tax return that informs, influences, or otherwise causes a change to the presented
                                             10

tax interview relative to a full tax interview. Thus, each prototype may reflect a rule
indicating when certain portions of the full tax interview should or should not be
presented to the user. Each prototype has an associated set of indicator variables
(corresponding to items of tax data) that determine which returns fall into that prototype.
As a high-level example, one prototype might be "Roth-ineligible" (i.e., a tax return for a
taxpayer whose income is such that no contributions to a Roth IRA are available). The
corresponding indicator variables would then include the taxpayer's filing status (e.g.,
married filing jointly, single, head of household, etc.) and modified adjusted gross
income (AGI). Thus, the indicator variables are specific types of items of tax data (e.g.,
filing status or AGI); the item of tax data itself is the quantitative value associated with
the indicator variable for a particular tax return (e.g., married filing jointly or an AGI of
$150,000); and the prototype is the underlying characteristic associated with the tax
return that would inform whether certain tax interview questions or requests for
information are or are not presented (e.g., whether or not the taxpayer is "Roth
ineligible"). It should further be appreciated that items of tax data are not limited to
information entered on a tax form; rather, they include any information used in the
course of preparing the return, and can be derived from other items of tax data.
[0025]      Embodiments of the invention then use the values of these indicator variables
for a given tax return to determine whether the prototype applies to that return. In the
above example, classifier would determine that the Roth-ineligible prototype applies to
the return being classified if the filing status is single and the modified AGI is greater
than $129,000. If the system knows that this prototype applies to the return being
                                              11

prepared, then it can personalize the tax interview by forgoing asking the taxpayer
about Roth IRA contributions.
[0026]      As the previous example illustrates, some prototypes (and the associated
indicator variables and portions of the tax interview) may result directly from the tax
code. In other cases, the prototypes, indicator variables, and interview portions may be
semantically linked without being imposed by the tax code. For example, an indicator
variable of a rural zip code may be associated with a "farmer" prototype that means
questions about farm income should be included in the interview. Still other prototypes
may not have such a direct, semantic connection between the indicator variable and the
relevant portions of the interview. For example, a particular income level in combination
with a particular number of dependents may indicate that questions about self
employment should be considered in the interview. These examples are purely
illustrative and are not intended to be limiting. A person of skill in the art will appreciate
that a single indicator variable may be associated with multiple prototypes and vice
versa.
[0027]      When embodied as a system, the invention includes components for storing
and analyzing a large volume of previously filed tax returns to generate a number of
prototypes and determine indicator variables corresponding to each prototype. Such
embodiments of the invention further include components for importing tax data
associated with the taxpayer from prior returns or from downloaded tax forms, and for
analyzing the tax data to determine which prototype or prototypes satisfy the return
being prepared. Such embodiments of the invention also include user interface
components for presenting only the appropriate portions of the tax interview to the user
                                              12

once the appropriate prototype or prototypes have been identified. Turning now to FIG.
2, a system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention is depicted. A data
store 202 stores a number of previously prepared tax returns. In embodiments of the
invention, the stored previously prepared tax returns are for a plurality of different
taxpayers. These returns may be for prior tax years or for the current year. More recent
returns may be preferentially used to provide more accurate classifications in light of
changing tax law. In some embodiments, responses to tax interviews may be stored in
association with the previously prepared tax returns. In some embodiments, the
previously prepared tax returns may be anonymized to protect taxpayer privacy. These
returns serve as input to statistical analyzer 204 of typecasting engine 206. As noted
above, typecasting engine 206 broadly comprises statistical analyzer 204, prototype
data store 208, and classifier 210. A person of skill in the art will appreciate that many
different arrangements and distributions of these components is possible within the
scope of the invention.
[0028]     Typecasting engine 206 generally performs two functions: a first function is to
populate the prototype data store 208 with prototypes identified by statistical analyzer
204; and a second function is to personalize a tax interview for an individual taxpayer by
classifying using classifier 210 the taxpayer's tax return according to prototypes
associated with the tax return. Discussing now the first general function of the
typecasting engine 206, the purpose of statistical analyzer 204 is to determine
prototypes for returns and indicator variables associated with those prototypes. A
person of skill in the art will appreciate that such a calculation, particularly on a large
data set, is only possible with the aid of computer-assisted statistical techniques such
                                             13

as multivariate analysis and/or cluster analysis. As described above, each prototype can
be thought of as a rule for determining when a portion of the tax interview should or
should not be presented, and the indicator variables can be thought of as the factors on
which the rule is based. Statistical analyzer 204 automatically infers these rules and
factors based on historical return data and other sources.
[0029]     In particular and in one embodiment, a cluster analysis technique such as
density-based clustering can be employed. In general, cluster analysis is the study of
how to group a set of objects in such a way that similar objects are placed in the same
group. These categories need not be known a priori, or even have any semantic
meaning associated with them. Here, the objects are the completed tax returns stored in
data store 202, and the resulting clusters become the prototypes. Density-based
clustering defines clusters to be areas of higher density in a higher-dimension space
representing the various features of the objects. Thus, clusters in this application will
contain tax returns that share many similar features. As such, the portions of the tax
interview that are relevant will be common among the returns in a cluster.
[0030]     In another embodiment, a different technique performed by statistical
analyzer 204 for       identifying prototypes is biclustering.     Biclustering  allows the
simultaneous clustering of the dependent and independent variables of a data set. In
this way, a set of dependent variables (here, tax-data items) that exhibit similar behavior
across a set of independent variables (here, for example, stored responses to interview
questions) can be identified, and vice versa. These biclusters can then be used to
predict the interview questions that will be relevant for a given set of prescreen data.
                                              14

[0031]     Other techniques can also be used by statistical analyzer 204 to predict the
interview questions that are relevant for a given indicator variable or combination of
variables. For example, the presence of a given tax form may be determined to reliably
correlate to the filing of a particular schedule that requires asking some interview
question(s). Additionally, it will be appreciated that, as additional tax returns are added
to data store 202, the set of prototypes and indicator variables can be refined by re
analyzing the larger data set to improve accuracy. Accordingly, statistical processor 204
may regularly re-calculate the prototypes and indicator variables based on the most
current data.
[0032]     Based on the output of statistical analyzer 204, data store 208 is populated
with a set of prototypes and indicator variables. Table 1 below is a non-inclusive list of
examples of the indicator variables for a selection of prototypes and the corresponding
portions of the tax interview associated with those prototypes.
            Values for Indicator Variables                   Corresponding Interview
                                                                        Portion
 Rural zip code with deductible expenses but no Prompt for farm income
 farm income
 Homeowner claiming mortgage interest deduction           Prompt for       cash    charitable
                                                          deductions
 Filing a regular 1040 (non-EZ, non-A)                    Prompt for cash item expense
                                                          deductions
 Household income above a threshold                       Prompt for charitable deductions
 Paid locality tax and live in a different state          Prompt for vacation days
 Taxpayer or spouse is over age 65                        Prompt     for    social   security
                                                          income.
 Taxpayer is head of household and doesn't have           Prompt for alimony income
                                               15

 any earned income
 Returning taxpayer has a new address vs. prior         Prompt for moving expenses
 year                                                   and/or noncash donations
 Taxpayer is a noncustodial parent                      Prompt for alimony payments.
 Taxpayer lives in a non-tax state                      Prompt for sales tax deduction
 Taxpayer lives in a location impacted by a major       Prompt for casualty loss
 natural tragedy (storm, tornado, hurricane)
 Taxpayer has unemployment income                       Prompt for job-hunting expenses
 Taxpayer had a W-2 withholding for a different state   Prompt for a credit for taxes paid
                                                       to another state
 Taxpayer has a dependent that is over age 19           Prompt   for   tuition  and   fees
                                                       and/or education credit
                                         Table 1
[0033]     The combined set of prototypes and indicator variables is stored in data store
208 for subsequent use by classifier 210. In some embodiments, the portions of the tax
interview relevant to the prototypes are also stored in data store 208. In other
embodiments, they are stored separately and can be determined based on the
prototype or prototypes determined by classifier 210.
[0034]     In some embodiments, data store 208 may be further augmented by
empirically determined prototypes and indicator variables. For example, if statistical
analyzer 204 did not generate the "farmer" prototype described above (perhaps due to a
small number of previous returns that matched the prototype), it could be manually
added to the database after statistical analyzer 204 has analyzed the returns in data
store 202 but before classifier 210 determines prototypes based on prescreen data.
[0035]     Discussing now the second general function of the typecasting engine 206,
classifier 210 broadly determines which prototypes apply to a particular taxpayer's tax
                                            16

return. Regardless of the statistical analysis technique used by statistical analyzer 204,
classifier 210 can assign each return to soft clusters, representing a likelihood that the
return belongs to a given cluster. If the likelihood that a return falls into a particular
cluster is above a given threshold, then the corresponding prototype can be assigned to
that return. In some embodiments, this implies that at most one prototype can be
assigned to a given return. In other embodiments, the threshold is such that a plurality
of clusters have likelihoods that fall above the threshold for the return, and as such, a
plurality of prototypes are assigned to the return and a plurality of portions of the
interview are presented to the user. As such, the threshold for assigning a prototype to
a return becomes a parameter that can be used to adjust the trade-off between
presenting the user with too many questions in the tax interview and potentially omitting
a relevant question.
[0036]      Classifier 210 begins by ingesting the prescreen data for the return being
classified using a data import engine component. It is the function of data import engine
to interface with the wide variety of systems from which it can be retrieved. For
example, the data import engine may interface with the storage for user profiles, various
tax form providers including financial institutions, financial service providers, etc. and/or
a historical tax return data store. The data import engine communicates with these
internal and external components to retrieve the raw prescreen data and convert it into
a standard form useable by classifier 210. In some embodiments, this conversion takes
the form of determining the values associated with various indicator variables.
Prescreen data can be derived from the user's profile, which contains basic
demographic information about the user that is less likely to change from year to year.
                                             17

Examples of information that may be contained in the user's profile include the user's
name, taxpayer identification number, date of birth,          marital status, dependent
information, and so forth. In some embodiments, a user is prompted for updates to the
profile information they have previously entered during the prescreen process. In some
such embodiments, a user may specify that certain profile items will not change and
should not be prompted for updates in the future. For example, once a user reaches a
certain age, they may decide that their dependent information will never again change.
Additionally, some profile items such as date of birth and taxpayer identification number
may always be unchanging and never require updates. Profile items may also be
imported from prior year tax returns 212, as may be the case if the user has not
previously created a profile. Changes in profile data items may be relevant in
themselves. For example, a change in address as compared to the prior tax reporting
period may indicate that the return satisfies a "recently moved" prototype so that the
interview should include questions relating to moving expenses. In some embodiments,
data import engine can obtain prescreen data from financial institution systems and
financial services providers by providing a login screen for the taxpayer's account, and
then automatically importing account information if the login is successful.
[0037]      Prescreen information may also come from tax forms 214 for the current tax
reporting period that have been imported from one or more tax form providers. In some
embodiments, classifier 210 includes a dedicated submodule for importing tax forms
from a variety of tax form providers, including payroll processors, banks, investment
companies, government tax authorities, and other sources. Such imported forms include
prescreen information both in the form of the actual tax data as well as additional
                                           18

demographic information about the taxpayer. For example, a wage statement (such as
a W-2 in the United States) may include information including the taxpayer's full name
and address in addition to the income information. Prescreen information may also be
inferred based on other prescreen information alone or in combination with external
data sources. For example, to determine the "farmer" prototype describe above, the
taxpayer's zip code (as entered by the user or imported from a tax form such as a W-2)
must be combined with a list of zip codes that have been determined to be rural.
Similarly, to determine whether the "natural disaster" prototype is applicable, the zip
code must be combined with a list of zip codes in which natural disasters have occurred
in the prior tax reporting period.
[0038]      In addition, the immediate source for tax data items may itself be another
source of prescreen data. For example, a wage statement (such as a W-2 statement in
the United States) that can be automatically imported or downloaded from a payroll
processor may cause the return to satisfy different prototypes from the same wage
statement manually entered by the user, and a hand-written wage statement may cause
the return to satisfy a third set of prototypes, even if all three wage statements contain
the same wage data.
[0039]      In some embodiments, additional prescreen data can be imported from other
sources. Classifier 210 may interface with one or more ways of tracking tax data
throughout the year in order to import additional tax and prescreen data. As a first
example, financial management software may track charitable donations or business
expenses. As another example, a tax preparation service may provide a smartphone
application for tracking tax-relevant receipts and/or cash payments as they arise over
                                              19

the course of tax year. This data may be gathered in structured or unstructured form.
The former case requires more effort by the taxpayer as it is entered, but less effort
during the tax preparation process.
[0040]     Once all the prescreen data has been entered, imported, and/or inferred,
classifier 210 determines which, if any, prototypes apply to the current return. The
precise operation of classifier 210 will depend on the type of analysis techniques used
by statistical analyzer 204. In general, each type of analysis technique will have a
corresponding classifier to determine to which, if any, clusters the current return
belongs. As described above, the classifier may use either hard clustering or soft
clustering. For further discussion, the reader is referred to a text covering cluster
analysis and classification such as Cluster Analysis, Fifth Edition by Everitt, et al., which
is hereby incorporated by reference.
[0041]     Once classifier 210 has determined the set of prototypes that apply to the
current return, the corresponding portions of the tax interview can be presented to the
user via user interface engine 216 without presenting the full tax interview. In some
embodiments, user interface engine 216 presents a standard minimum set of interview
questions in addition to the questions corresponding to the prototypes identified for the
return being classified. In other embodiments, the minimal questions are included in the
set of questions associated with each prototype. In still other embodiments, prototypes
remove questions from a standard set of questions. Once the user uses user interface
engine 216 to provide responses to the set of questions provided in the interview, a tax
preparation engine 218, as is known in the art, can use the responses in combination
with the collected prescreen data to complete the tax return. However, where a
                                            20

conventional tax return preparation engine would require the user's responses to the full
tax interview, the tax preparation engine 218 used by embodiments of the invention can
prepare an accurate return without presenting the full tax interview to the user, based on
the output of classifier 210.
[0042]      When embodied as a method, embodiments of the invention include methods
for generating prototypes based on prior tax returns and classifying a return being
prepared based on those prototypes in order to present only the relevant portions of a
tax interview. In the former case, the method can includes steps of importing a plurality
of previously prepared returns, importing tax interview responses corresponding to
those returns, analyzing the imported returns and responses for similarities, generating
prototypes based on the statistical analysis and augmenting the generated prototypes
with additional, known prototypes. In the latter case, the method can include steps of
ingesting prescreen data, determining the applicable prototypes, presenting only the
relevant portions of the tax interview to the user, and preparing the tax return based on
the prescreen data and the user's responses.
Generation of the Prototype Data Store
[0043]      Turning now to FIG. 3, a flowchart illustrating the operation of one
embodiment of the invention is depicted, and referred to generally by reference numeral
300. Initially, at step 302, a plurality of previously prepared tax returns 202 is imported
by statistical analyzer 204. In some embodiments, tax returns 202 are actual tax returns
that have been previously prepared prior to filing. In other embodiments, returns 202 are
specially prepared training data representing typical taxpayer profiles. In still other
embodiments, tax returns 202 represent a mix of actual and synthetic returns. In some
such embodiments, synthetic returns are weighted more heavily by statistical analyzer
                                               21

204 than actual returns. In other embodiments, they are weighted less heavily or
equally.
[0044]      Processing then proceeds to step 304 where the responses to the tax
interview that correspond to each of returns 202 are imported by statistical analyzer
304. For those embodiments where part or all of tax returns 202 are synthetic, the tax
interview responses may also be synthetic. For those embodiments where tax returns
202 are actual returns, the corresponding tax interview questions may be the actual
responses for those tax returns, they may be automatically generated based on the
corresponding returns, or they may be manually entered based on the corresponding
returns. In other embodiments, no tax interview questions are imported at this step,
rather, interview questions are identified with particular entries or sets of entries in tax
returns 202. In such embodiments, once the returns are clustered based on the various
entries they contain, returns being prepared are classified into the appropriate clusters
and then the questions appropriate to the common values in those clusters are
presented.
[0045]      Next, at step 306, statistical analyzer 204 analyzes the imported data. In
some embodiments, statistical analyzer 204 uses some form of cluster analysis. One of
skill in the art will appreciate that many different clustering algorithms are possible and
may be employed in various embodiments of the invention. For example, density-based
clustering techniques such as DBSCAN and OPTICS may be appropriate where tax
interview response data is not available, while biclustering techniques such as SAMBA
and FABIA may be appropriate where response data is available as well. Other cluster
analysis and non-cluster analysis techniques, now known or later discovered, may also
                                              22

be used to generate the prototypes and indicator variables, and are considered to be
within the scope of the invention.
[0046]      At step 308, based on the analysis performed at step 306, statistical analyzer
204 generates and stores prototypes and the corresponding indicators in prototype data
store 208. The representation of the information stored will, of course, depend on the
precise statistical analysis technique used. In some embodiments, the prototypes will be
information useable to determine a set of interview questions to present to the user. In
other embodiments, the prototypes will be the interview questions themselves. In still
other embodiments, the prototypes will contain information identifying a cluster or
clusters of returns, which can be used to determine the relevant interview questions to
present to the user as described above. The indicator variables are broadly one or more
pieces of prescreen data common to the returns falling into the cluster corresponding to
the associated prototype. In some embodiments, these indicator variables are binary
variables; in other embodiments, they are continuous variables. This data store can
subsequently be used by classifier 210 to determine the appropriate prototype or
prototypes for the return being prepared, as described below.
[0047]      Processing then proceeds to step 310, where prototype data store 208 is, in
some embodiments, augmented with additional prototypes and indicator variables. In
some embodiments, these additional prototypes are added where the prior returns
falling into the prototype are too varied to automatically generate a robust set of
indicator variables. In other embodiments, the additional prototypes may be sufficiently
rare that the set of prior returns 202 does not include enough returns to accurately
categorize them. In still other embodiments, the additional prototypes may be
                                            23

considered sufficiently important that it is considered worthwhile to specially create a set
of indicator variables for them. In yet other embodiments, all known prototypes are used
to augment data store 208, regardless of whether a similar prototype has been
generated by statistical analyzer 204, so as to offer the most complete set of interview
questions for each return.
[0048]     Finally, at step 312, one or more portions of the tax interview are determined
that are relevant to each of the prototypes. For those embodiments where tax interview
responses are imported for each of prior returns 202, this may be a separate
commonality analysis for the sets of responses in the cluster corresponding to the
prototype. If biclustering is used to analyze the prior return data, the relevant questions
may be automatically generated as a part of that analysis. In some embodiments, the
relevant portions of the tax interview are instead determined during the process of
preparing a return, as discussed below.
Classification of Tax Returns
[0049]     Turning now to FIG. 4, a flowchart illustrating the operation of another
embodiment of the present invention is depicted, and referred to generally by reference
numeral 400. By contrast to method 300, which describes the population of prototype
data store 208, method 400 broadly describes the use of prototype data store 208 to
determine and present the appropriate set of interview questions to a user. In some
embodiments, method 300 is performed in conjunction with method 400; for example,
method 300 may be performed immediately before method 400 every time method 300
is performed. In other embodiments, method 300 is performed periodically (such as
daily, weekly, or monthly) to update prototype data store 208, and each of the
                                              24

executions of method 400 uses the most recently updated version of prototype data
store 208. In still other embodiments, data store 208 is updated annually based on the
returns filed for the previous tax period.
[0050]      Method 400 begins at step 402, where prescreen data for the tax return being
prepared is ingested. As described above, prescreen data for a given return can take a
variety of forms, including information extracted from imported tax forms, stored
demographic data from prior year tax returns 212, information imported from an
associated user account, information recorded by the user over the course of the tax
year, and so forth. In some embodiments, prescreen data may presented to the user for
confirmation; for example, the address may be extracted from the return for the previous
tax reporting period, and presented to the user for updating if necessary. In some
cases, the user may also provide context for the prescreen data; for example, if the user
made use of a smartphone application to capture images of tax-relevant receipts over
the course of the tax reporting period, these images may be ingested together with the
other prescreen data, and presented to the user to categorize as, for example, a
business expense or charitable contribution.
[0051]      Processing then continues at step 404, where classifier 210 determines the
applicable prototypes for the return. Broadly speaking, where prototypes are rules for
determining when a portion of the full tax interview should or should not be presented,
the classifier 210 applies each of these rules to the tax return being prepared to
generate the simplified, personalized tax interview. The details of how the classification
is performed may vary depending on the algorithms used by statistical analyzer 204.
For example, if statistical analyzer 204 uses a density-based clustering algorithm, the
                                            25

return being classified may be given a score for each cluster based on its proximity to
the centroid or border of that cluster. Then, any prototypes associated with cluster
scores above (or below) a particular threshold are determined to be relevant to the
return being prepared. In those embodiments where only a single prototype is
associated with each return, the prototype associated with the nearest cluster (i.e. the
one with the highest or lowest score) to the return being classified is determined to the
applicable prototype for that return. Alternatively, boundaries (either overlapping or
mutually exclusive) can be determined for each cluster and the return can be associated
with each cluster whose boundaries contain it. In some embodiments, a return being
classified may not satisfy the criteria for belonging to any clusters. In such cases, no
prototypes or a default prototype may be associated with the return. Once the
prototypes associated with the return have been determined, processing proceeds to
step 406.
[0052]     At step 406, the relevant portions of the tax interview are determined and
presented to the user by user interface engine 216. Broadly, each portion of the tax
interview includes one or more questions designed to elicit information from the user to
complete the tax return being prepared. It is an object of embodiments of the invention
to present the user with a minimal set of questions while still eliciting all information
needed to correctly prepare the return, without presenting a full tax interview. In some
embodiments, one or more portions of the tax interview are identified with each cluster
with which a return can be associated; those portions identified with the clusters
associated with the return being prepared are presented to the user. In other
embodiments, each cluster has a relevancy score for each portion of the tax interview;
                                            26

the respective relevancy scores for each cluster associated with the return being
prepared are summed and any portions of the tax interview where the total score
exceeds a predetermined threshold are presented to the user by user interface engine
216.
[0053]     . As part of this process, at step 408, the user provides responses via user
interface engine 216 to each question presented in the tax interview. In some
embodiments, user interface engine 216 may also present default answers to each
question in the interview portion based on the prescreen data and prior returns 202
which can be affirmed or corrected by the user. In some embodiments, the user may
select an option to receive additional help regarding the question being presented by
user interface engine 216. Any method of presenting questions and receiving responses
may be utilized by user interface engine 216 to carry out steps 406 and 408.
[0054]     As the user enters additional tax data items at step 408, classifier 210 may
update the set of applicable prototypes at step 410 and determine that the return being
prepared satisfies additional prototypes, or that previously identified prototypes are no
longer satisfied. As discussed above, the applicable set of prototypes depends of the
values included in prescreen data for the relevant indicator variables. Values entered by
the user in response to interview questions can provide additional values for indicator
variables which could alter the applicability of certain prototypes. Furthermore, the user
may correct certain imported prescreen values during the interview process, and this
may implicate additional prototypes not previously identified as applicable, or cause
prototypes previously identified as applicable to be no longer considered applicable.
When this occurs, the tax interview being presented to the user may change, and
                                             27

additional portions of the full tax interview may be presented to the user. Alternatively,
portions of the tax interview previously identified to be presented to the user may be
removed from consideration and no longer presented. For example, if the return being
prepared was previously identified as satisfying the "Roth-ineligible" prototype described
above based on a previously stored filing status of "single" and a modified AGI
determined based on imported tax forms, questions regarding Roth contributions would
be removed from the presented tax interview. However, if the user indicates that the
current filing status should instead be "married filing jointly" during the tax interview, this
may cause re-classification of the return such that the questions regarding Roth
contributions are now presented. If tax data items are entered by the user cause the
return to satisfy a prototype that it did not previously satisfy, the presented portions of
the interview may similarly change.
[0055]      Next, at decision 412, it is determined whether any relevant portions of the full
tax interview remain to be presented to the user based on the updated set of applicable
prototypes. In some embodiments, step 410 updating applicable prototypes is carried
out after each portion of the tax interview is presented to the user so as to present the
most accurate personalized tax interview to the user, and accordingly decision 412 will
be made for each portion of the tax interview presented. In other embodiments, step
410 and decision 412 are only reached after all previously determined portions of the
tax interview have been presented to the user to determine of more portions need to be
presented. If more portions of the tax interview remain to be presented to the user,
processing returns to step 406; otherwise, processing continues at step 414.
                                               28

[0056]      Finally, at step 414, the tax return preparation engine competes the return
based on the prescreen data, including the collected prescreen data, and the user's
responses to the tax interview, as discussed above. In some embodiments, tax
preparation engine 218 can also check the completed return for consistency against the
completed returns corresponding to the determined prototypes, and any inconsistencies
flagged for the user's review. For example, if the taxpayer's return is determined to
match the "farmer" prototype described above, and if the prior returns used to generate
that prototype all reported estimated tax payments while the return being prepared does
not indicate that estimated tax payments were made, this inconsistency may be
reported to the user for potential correction. In some embodiments, once the return has
been prepared, it is added to prior returns 202 for use in future iterations of method 300.
Once the return has been prepared, it can be presented to the user for review and filing.
[0057]      Many different arrangements of the various components depicted, as well as
components not shown, are possible without departing from the scope of the claims
below. Embodiments of the invention have been described with the intent to be
illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to
readers of this disclosure after and because of reading it. Alternative means of
implementing the aforementioned can be completed without departing from the scope of
the claims below. Certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be
employed      without   reference  to other features    and    subcombinations     and  are
contemplated within the scope of the claims. Although the invention has been described
with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the attached drawing figures, it is noted
                                             29

that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from
the scope of the invention as recited in the claims.
[0058]    Having thus described various embodiments of the invention, what is claimed
as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent includes the following:
                                             30

CLAIMS:
1.      A system for presenting a simplified tax interview to a taxpayer, comprising:
a data store storing a plurality of tax returns;
a typecasting engine comprising:
        a classifier operable to determine a prototype for a tax return being classified
                based on values of a plurality of indicator variables associated with
                prescreen data for the tax return being classified;
a data import engine, operable to:
         import tax data for the taxpayer for a prior tax return;
        download one or more tax forms corresponding to the taxpayer; and
         based at least on the tax data and the tax forms, determine one or more values
                for the indicator variables for the tax return being classified; and
a user interface engine operable to present a portion of a full tax interview to the
        taxpayer without presenting the full tax interview, wherein the portion is selected
         based on the prototype determined by the classifier and is personalized to the
        taxpayer's tax data.
2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the typecasting engine further comprises a
statistical analyzer operable to analyze the plurality of tax returns and identify the
plurality of indicator variables and corresponding prototypes.
3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the indicator variables include the taxpayer's zip
code.
                                                31

4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the indicator variables include a deduction
claimed by the taxpayer.
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the indicator variables include a source of income
for the taxpayer.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the indicator variables include dependent
information for a taxpayer.
7.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a tax return preparation engine;
wherein the user interface engine is further operable to receive responses from the
        taxpayer to the presented portion of the full tax interview; and
wherein the tax return preparation engine is operable to prepare the tax return based on
        the imported tax data, tax forms, and received responses.
8.      The system of claim 1, wherein the statistical analyzer uses cluster analysis to
analyze the plurality of tax returns and identify the plurality of indicator variables and
corresponding prototypes.
9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface engine presents a plurality of
portions of the full tax interview to the taxpayer without presenting the full tax interview,
                                              32

and wherein the plurality of portions are selected based on a plurality of prototypes
determined by the classifier.
                                          33

10.     A method of presenting a simplified tax interview to a taxpayer, comprising the
steps of:
importing prescreen data associated with a tax return for the taxpayer;
comparing said prescreen data to a plurality of indicator variables;
identifying at least one prototype based on said comparing;
identifying a first portion of a full tax interview based on the at least prototype; and
without presenting a full tax interview, presenting the identified first portion of the full tax
        interview to the taxpayer.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the steps of comparing prescreen data and
identifying at least one prototype are performed by a typecasting engine including:
         a statistical analyzer operable to analyze a plurality of tax returns; and
        a classifier based on an analysis of the plurality of tax returns.
12.     The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of:
receiving responses from the user to the identified portion of the full tax interview;
preparing the tax return based on the prescreen data and the received responses.
13.     The method of claim 10, wherein the prescreen data includes data imported from
the taxpayer's return for a previous tax year.
14.     The method of claim 10, wherein the prescreen data includes one or more
imported tax forms for the taxpayer.
                                                  34

15.     The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of:
receiving a second prototype from the typecasting engine based on the prescreen data;
identifying a second portion of the full tax interview based on the prototype;
without presenting the full tax interview, presenting the identified second portion of the
        full tax interview to the taxpayer.
16.     The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of:
identifying a question in the first portion of the full tax interview as a question previously
        answered and flagged as permanent by the taxpayer;
removing the question from the first portion of the full tax interview prior to presenting it
        to the taxpayer.
                                               35

17.     One or more computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions
which, when executed by computer perform a method of determining a simplified tax
interview for a taxpayer, the method comprising the steps of:
importing tax data relating to a plurality of previously prepared tax returns from a data
        store storing said tax data;
applying cluster analysis to said tax data to generate a plurality of clusters, each of said
        clusters including a plurality of previously prepared tax returns;
based on said clusters, determining a plurality of prototypes;
for each prototype, determining one or more indicator variables corresponding to said
        prototype; and
storing said prototypes and said indicator variables in a prototype data store.
18.     The media of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises steps of:
importing tax interview responses corresponding to each of said previously prepared tax
        returns;
based at least in part on said tax interview responses, determining a relevant portion of
        a full tax interview corresponding to each of said prototypes.
19.     The media of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises the step of
augmenting said prototype data store with an additional prototype and corresponding
indicator variable not based on one of said plurality of generated clusters.
                                               36

20.   The media of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises the steps of:
determining that one or more prototypes apply to a tax return being prepared;
presenting, to a user, one or more portions of a full tax interview corresponding to the
      prototypes without presenting a full tax interview.
                                            37

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 08     2016
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 08     2016
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 08     2016
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 08     2016
           <removed-date>

