    SPRINKLER WITH MODULAR COMPONENTS AND POP-UP DEFLECTOR
                                           Abstract
        A sprinkler includes a pop-up deflector plate that is engageable with a brake assembly
in an extended position. A brake module is secured to a sprinkler body and includes a rotatable
connector coupled with the brake assembly. The pop-up deflector plate is disposed adjacent
the nozzle and engages the rotatable connector in the extended position.

                    1/18
                             14
10           36
                         40
                                -12
          42             A46
       44
202
                                           24
                                          28
                                       18
                  26
                                    16
    50
                Fig. 1

 SPRINKLER WITH MODULAR COMPONENTS AND POP-UP DEFLECTOR
BACKGROUND
[0001]          The invention relates to a modular industrial sprinkler including a pop-up
deflector and, more particularly, to a selectively configurable sprinkler assembly with a
pop-up deflector that is operable as a rotator or a spinner.
[0002]          Industrial sprinklers with exposed nozzles may be prone to clogging due
to debris that may collect in or around the nozzle. Blocked nozzles detrimentally affect
sprinkler patterns and are time-consuming to clean and maintain. Debris may similarly
collect around a spinning deflector plate, which can slow or jam the deflector plate.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0003]          It would thus be desirable to provide a sprinkler assembly including a pop
up deflector that protects the nozzle during periods of non-use.            It would also be
desirable to incorporate the pop-up deflector in a rotator assembly, including a brake or
the like, to better control sprinkler patterns during use. It would still further be desirable
for a sprinkler assembly to be constructed using modular components that are selectively
configurable to achieve different characteristics for a sprinkler assembly.
[0004]          In an exemplary embodiment, a sprinkler includes a pop-up deflector plate
that is engageable with a brake assembly in an extended position. A brake module is
secured to a sprinkler body and includes a rotatable connector coupled with the brake
assembly. A nozzle module is cooperable with the sprinkler body and includes a nozzle,
and the deflector plate is cooperable with the nozzle module and is disposed adjacent
the nozzle. The deflector plate is displaceable in the nozzle module between a retracted
position and the extended position. The deflector plate includes a stream deflector
surface and a torque shaft, where the torque shaft is engaged with the rotatable connector
in the extended position.
[0005]          The torque shaft may be engaged with the rotatable connector in the
retracted position. The rotatable connector may include a channel with a cross-sectional
shape, where the torque shaft may be shaped corresponding to the cross-sectional shape
to engage the channel and to transfer torque between the deflector plate and the rotatable
connector. In some embodiments, the cross-sectional shape may be square, and the
                                               1

torque shaft may be shaped to fit in the square shape. The cross-sectional shape may
contain ridges, where the torque shaft may be provided with splines engageable with the
ridges.
[0006]         The nozzle module may include a nozzle top coupled with a nozzle base,
where the deflector plate may be displaceable between the retracted position and the
extended position in the nozzle top.       The nozzle module may be connected to the
sprinkler body in a snap fit. The rotatable connector may be positioned so as to act as a
stop limit for the deflector plate in the extended position.
[0007]         In some embodiments, the torque shaft may be tapered such that the torque
shaft is disengaged from the rotatable connector in the retracted position.
[0008]         The sprinkler may also include a base unit to which the nozzle module
can be secured. The base unit has connecting structure connectable with a source of
water under pressure.
[0009]         In a hanging rotator embodiment, the sprinkler may be provided with a
spring acting between the rotatable connector and the deflector plate that biases the
deflector plate toward the retracted position.
[0010]         The deflector plate may include a breakaway diffuser tab.
[0011]         The brake module, the nozzle module and the deflector plate may be
modular components. In this context, the sprinkler may include a plurality of brake
modules with varying braking characteristics, a plurality of nozzle modules with varying
flow characteristics, and a plurality of deflector plates with varying stream disbursement
characteristics, where the pluralities of brake modules, nozzle modules and deflector
plates may be selectively and independently attachable to the sprinkler body.
[0012]         In another exemplary embodiment, a sprinkler assembly includes a
plurality of interchangeable modular components. The sprinkler assembly includes a
sprinkler body including        couplers   for securing the      interchangeable   modular
components. The plurality of interchangeable components include a plurality of brake
modules each securable to the sprinkler body, a plurality of nozzle modules each
securable to the sprinkler body, and a plurality of deflector plates each cooperable with
the plurality of nozzle modules and disposed adjacent the nozzle. The plurality of brake
modules respectively have varying braking characteristics from no braking to maximum
                                              2

braking, where each of the brake modules includes a rotatable connector. Each of the
plurality of nozzle modules includes a nozzle having a nozzle size, where the respective
nozzle sizes of the plurality of nozzle modules reflect varying flow characteristics. The
deflector plates are each displaceable in the respective nozzle module between a
retracted position and an extended position, and the deflector plates each include a
stream deflector surface and a torque shaft.       The torque shaft is engaged with the
rotatable connector in the extended position.
[0013]         In some embodiments, the sprinkler assembly includes a jewel cup
bearing mounted in the rotatable connector and a ball bearing disposed at a distal end of
the torque shaft and engaged with the jewel cup bearing with the deflector plate in the
extended position.
[0014]         In yet another exemplary embodiment, a sprinkler includes a sprinkler
body; a brake module secured to the sprinkler body and including a rotatable connector
coupled with a brake assembly; a nozzle; and a pop-up deflector plate disposed adjacent
the nozzle and engaging the rotatable connector in an extended position.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]         These and other aspects and advantages will be described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0016]         FIGS. 1 and 2 are sectional views of a sprinkler assembly according to
one embodiment;
[0017]         FIGS. 3 and 4 show the sprinkler assembly of FIGS. 1 and 2 with the
deflector plate in an extended and a retracted position, respectively;
[0018]         FIGS. 5-8 show a sprinkler assembly including available variations by
virtue of the modular construction of the sprinkler assembly;
[0019]         FIGS. 9-12 show a spinner variation of the sprinkler assembly;
[0020]         FIGS. 13-16 show a hanging rotator version of the assembly; and
[0021]         FIGS. 17 and 18 show a sprinkler assembly incorporating a short radius
break-off tab for limiting a throw/disbursement range of the sprinkler.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022]         The sprinkler of the described embodiments results in a lower cost pop
up sprinkler that is configurable either as a rotator (i.e., incorporating a brake to control
                                              3

rotation speed) or a spinner (i.e., freely rotating).     The sprinkler includes modular
components so that the nozzle, deflector and brake functions can be varied according to
user specifications. In a rotator configuration, the pop-up deflector plate is engageable
in an extended position with a brake assembly.         The brake module is secured to a
sprinkler body and includes a rotatable connector coupled with the brake assembly. The
pop-up deflector plate is disposed adjacent the nozzle and engages the rotatable
connector in the extended position. With the modular construction, the brake assembly
can be interchanged with a spinner assembly. Additionally, the nozzle module may or
may not be provided with flow control structure and similarly may be interchanged with
an alternative nozzle module. Still further, the deflector plate can be interchanged with
alternative deflector plates to reflect desired sprinkler patterns.
[0023]         FIGS. 1-4 show an exemplary configuration. The sprinkler includes a
sprinkler body 10 that serves as connecting structure for the modular components of an
assembled sprinkler. The sprinkler body 10 includes a first compartment 12 for securing
a brake module 14 and a second compartment 16 for securing a nozzle module 18. The
nozzle module 18 may be connected to the sprinkler body 10 in a snap fit. Sprinkler
body arms 20 extend between the first and second compartments 12, 16.
[0024]         The nozzle module 18 includes a nozzle top 22 engaged with a nozzle
base 24. In some embodiments, the nozzle top 22 is coupled with the nozzle base 24 in
a snap fit. The nozzle base 24 may include an integrated nozzle 26 through which a
stream of water is emitted. A flow washer 28 may be included to provide flow control
from the nozzle 26.
[0025]         A deflector plate 30 is cooperable with the nozzle module 18 and is
disposed adjacent the nozzle 26. The water stream flowing through the nozzle 26 is
directed to the deflector plate 30, which is provided with a stream deflector surface 32
for turning and distributing the water stream. The stream deflector surface 32 is shaped
to cause the deflector plate 30 to rotate when impacted with the water stream from the
nozzle 26. The deflector plate 30 is displaceable in the nozzle module 18 between a
retracted position (shown in FIGS. 2 and 4) and an extended position (shown in FIGS.
1 and 3). The deflector plate 30 also includes a torque shaft 34 extending from a side
of the deflector plate 30 opposite from the side facing the nozzle 26.
                                              4

[0026]         The brake module 14 is secured in the first compartment 12 and includes
a shaft 36 coupled with a rotatable connector 38. The brake module can be of any type
suitable for the intended purpose. In some embodiments, the brake module is a viscous
brake assembly including a rotor attached to the shaft 36 and disposed in a pool of
viscous fluid 42. The rotor 40 and viscous fluid 42 serve to resist rotation of the shaft
36. The viscous brake assembly may also include a bearing 44 in which the shaft 36 is
rotatable, and a seal 46 and retainer 48 to enclose and secure the assembly. Other types
of brake assemblies may be incorporated into the brake module 14.
[0027]          With continued reference to FIGS. 1 and 3, the torque shaft 34 is engaged
with the rotatable connector 38 in the extended position. The engagement between the
torque shaft 34 and the rotatable connector 38 enables a mutual torque exchange
between the torque shaft 34 and the rotatable connector 38.            That is, the rotatable
connector 38 may include a channel with a cross-sectional shape, where the torque shaft
34 is shaped corresponding to the cross-sectional shape to engage the channel and to
transfer torque between the deflector plate 30 and the rotatable connector 38. In the
embodiment shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, the cross-sectional shape includes ridges, where
the torque shaft 34 includes splines that are engageable with the ridges. In FIGS. 3 and
4, the cross-sectional shape is square, and the torque shaft 34 is shaped to fit in the
square shape. Any combination of cross-sectional shapes and torque shaft shapes may
be utilized, and the invention is not necessarily meant to be limited to the illustrated
variations. Other shapes and/or connection types may be used to achieve the intended
functionality.
[0028]         In some embodiments, the torque shaft 34 is engaged with the rotatable
connector 38 in both the extended position and the retracted position. With such an
engagement, the deflector plate 30 and the rotatable connector 38 are coupled before a
water stream is emitted through the nozzle 26. In alternative embodiments, the torque
shaft 34 is detached from the connector 38 in the retracted position (see the discussion
below with reference to FIGS. 5-8). As a consequence, the deflector plate 30 begins to
rotate freely at start-up until the torque shaft 34 engages the rotatable connector 38. This
configuration may be desirable when a strong brake is utilized for a particular
application.   The spinning deflector plate can provide some momentum and kinetic
                                                5

energy before engaging the rotatable connector 38 to overcome a potentially difficult
start.
[0029]         With continued reference to FIGS. 1 and 2, the deflector plate 30 is
displaceable between the retracted position and the extended position in the nozzle top
22. As shown, the rotatable connector 38 is positioned so as to act as a stop limit for
the deflector plate 30 in the extended position. That is, the pop-up range of the deflector
plate 30 is defined by the seat on the nozzle top 22 on which the deflector plate 30 is
engaged in the retracted position (see FIG. 2) and the depth of the rotatable connector
38 in which the torque shaft 34 is disposed in the extended position (see FIG. 1). The
deflector plate 30 may thus be simply placed in the nozzle top 22 during assembly
without requiring an active connection.
[0030]         To assemble the sprinkler, the nozzle module 18 may be snapped into the
second compartment 16 of the sprinkler body 10, and the deflector plate 30 is set in the
nozzle top 22. The brake module 14 may be secured in the first compartment 12 using
any suitable connector such as a quarter-turn lock. This known type of lock is useful
for connecting plastic pieces and utilizes tabs and ridges to secure parts with a quarter
turn or twist lock. The brake module 14 is installed such that the rotatable connector 38
is engaged or aligned with the torque shaft 34.
[0031]         A similar quarter-turn lock or the like may be used to secure the assembly
on a base unit 50. The base unit 50 includes connecting structure connectable with a
source of water under pressure. In some embodiments, the base unit 50 includes a stake
adapter or the like connectable via a quarter-turn lock. Alternatively, the base unit 50
may be threaded using a threaded Acme connector or may be press fit and glued.
[0032]         In use, before a water stream flows through the nozzle 26, the deflector
plate 30 is disposed in its retracted position as shown in FIGS. 2 and 4 by gravity. When
water flows through the nozzle 26, the water stream impacts the stream deflector surface
32 and displaces the deflector plate 30 from the retracted position to the extended
position as shown in FIGS. 1 and 3. The emitting stream also causes the deflector plate
30 to rotate by virtue of the shape of the stream deflector surface 32. In the extended
position, the deflector plate 30 is prevented from freely rotating by the engagement
between the torque shaft 34 and the rotatable connector 38, which in turn is coupled
                                               6

with the brake module 14. The amount of braking can be controlled depending on the
intended application by interchanging one brake module with another. An alternative
brake module may include a fluid with lower viscosity or no brake at all (resulting in a
spinner configuration).
[00331         FIGS. 5-8 illustrate variations on the sprinkler assembly. In the illustrated
variation, the torque shaft 34 is tapered such that the torque shaft 34 is disengaged from
the rotatable connector 38 in the retracted position. The variation shown in FIGS. 5-8
also includes an alternative nozzle base 24 and standard nozzle 26 without the flow
control washer 28 shown in FIG. 1.
[0034]         FIGS. 9-12 show a variation where the brake module 14 is replaced with
a spinner module 114. In this variation, the deflector plate 30 is freely rotatable. As
shown in FIG. 10, the spinner module 114 may include a jewel cup bearing 52 mounted
in the rotatable connector 38 and/or a ball bearing 54 disposed at a distal end of the
torque shaft 34 and engaged with the jewel cup bearing 52 with the deflector plate in
the extended position. The bearings 52, 54 may be usable together or separately. The
bearings 52, 54 can reduce wear and extend the life of the sprinkler in the spinner
configuration. The variation shown in FIGS. 9-12 includes a threaded Acme adapter as
the base unit 50.
[0035]         FIGS. 13-16 show a variation adapted for use as a hanging rotator. In this
variation, the base unit 50 is top-mounted as shown. The nozzle module is shown with
a flow control nozzle 26 and a flow control washer 28. A spring 56 is disposed over the
torque shaft 34 and acts between the rotatable connector 38 and the deflector plate 30.
The spring 56 biases the deflector plate 30 toward the retracted position as shown in
FIGS. 14 and 16. A spring constant is selected so that the water stream emitted from
the nozzle 26 impacts the deflector plate 30 and extends the deflector plate 30 from the
retracted position to the extended position against the force of the spring 56. When the
stream is turned off, the spring 56 draws the deflector plate 30 back to the retracted
position. In this embodiment, it may be desirable to use a brake module with a reduced
braking force (e.g., by using a fluid with a lower viscosity) so that the deflector plate 30
rotates faster during use. The faster rotation may be desirable in the hanging variation
so that the sprinkler may maintain its center.
                                              7

[0036]         In some embodiments, it may be desirable to incorporate a breakaway
diffuser tab on the deflector plate 30 as shown in FIGS. 17 and 18. The diffuser tab 58
serves to keep the water disbursement closer to the sprinkler for smaller vegetation or
the like. As the vegetation grows, the breakaway diffuser tab 58 can be readily removed
from the deflector plate 30. Alternatively, due to the modular construction of the
sprinkler, the deflector plate 30 can be readily interchanged with a different deflector
plate.
[0037]         The modular construction of the described sprinkler facilitates assembly
of the sprinkler into the numerous described variations as may be suitable for different
intended functionalities. Thus, the assembly may include a plurality of brake modules
with varying braking characteristics, a plurality of nozzle modules with varying flow
characteristics, and a plurality of deflector plates with varying stream disbursement
characteristics. The pluralities of brake modules, nozzle modules and/or deflector plates
may be selectively and independently attachable to the sprinkler body. The varying
braking characteristics extend from no braking to maximum braking as described. The
nozzle modules may include nozzles having varying sizes to reflect the varying flow
characteristics.
[0038]         The sprinkler according to the described embodiments incorporates a pop
up deflector plate in a rotator assembly. Additionally, the modular construction enables
the use of multiple variations according to intended functionality.
While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered
to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that the
invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on the contrary, is
intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within
the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
                                             8

CLAIMS
         1.      A sprinkler comprising:
        a sprinkler body;
        a brake module secured to the sprinkler body and including a rotatable connector
coupled with a brake assembly;
        a nozzle module cooperable with the sprinkler body and including a nozzle; and
        a deflector plate cooperable with the nozzle module and disposed adjacent the nozzle,
the deflector plate being displaceable in the nozzle module between a retracted position and an
extended position, the deflector plate including a stream deflector surface and a torque shaft,
wherein the torque shaft is engaged with the rotatable connector in the extended position.
        2.       A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the torque shaft is engaged with the
rotatable connector in the retracted position.
        3.       A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the rotatable connector includes a
channel with a cross-sectional shape, and wherein the torque shaft is shaped corresponding to
the cross-sectional shape to engage the channel and to transfer torque between the deflector
plate and the rotatable connector.
        4.       A sprinkler according to claim 3, wherein the cross-sectional shape is square,
and wherein the torque shaft is shaped to fit in the square shape.
        5.       A sprinkler according to claim 3, wherein the cross-sectional shape comprises
ridges, and wherein the torque shaft comprises splines that are engageable with the ridges.
        6.       A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the nozzle module comprises a nozzle
top coupled with a nozzle base, and wherein the deflector plate is displaceable between the
retracted position and the extended position in the nozzle top.
        7.       A sprinkler according to claim 6, wherein the nozzle module is connected to the
sprinkler body in a snap fit.
        8.       A sprinkler according to claim 6, wherein the rotatable connector is positioned
so as to act as a stop limit for the deflector plate in the extended position.
        9.       A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the torque shaft is tapered such that
the torque shaft is disengaged from the rotatable connector in the retracted position.
        10.      A sprinkler according to claim 1, further comprising a base unit to which the
nozzle module is secured, the base unit having connecting structure connectable with a source
of water under pressure.
                                                   9

        11.     A sprinkler according to claim 1, further comprising a spring acting between
the rotatable connector and the deflector plate, the spring biasing the deflector plate toward the
retracted position.
         12.    A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the deflector plate comprises a
breakaway diffuser tab.
        13.     A sprinkler according to claim 1, wherein the brake module, the nozzle module
and the deflector plate are modular components.
         14.    A sprinkler according to claim 13, comprising a plurality of brake modules with
varying braking characteristics, a plurality of nozzle modules with varying flow characteristics,
and a plurality of deflector plates with varying stream disbursement characteristics, wherein
the pluralities of brake modules, nozzle modules and deflector plates are selectively and
independently attachable to the sprinkler body.
        15.     A sprinkler assembly including a plurality of interchangeable modular
components, the sprinkler assembly comprising:
        a sprinkler body including compartments for securing the interchangeable modular
components;
        the plurality of interchangeable components comprising:
        a plurality of brake modules each securable to the sprinkler body, the plurality of brake
modules respectively having varying braking characteristics from no braking to maximum
braking, each of the brake modules including a rotatable connector;
        a plurality of nozzle modules each securable to the sprinkler body, each of the plurality
of nozzle modules including a nozzle having a nozzle size, wherein the respective nozzle sizes
of the plurality of nozzle modules reflect varying flow characteristics; and
        a plurality of deflector plates each cooperable with the plurality of nozzle modules and
disposed adjacent the nozzle, the deflector plates each being displaceable in the respective
nozzle module between a retracted position and an extended position, the deflector plates each
including a stream deflector surface and a torque shaft, wherein the torque shaft is engaged
with the rotatable connector in the extended position.
        16.     A sprinkler assembly according to claim 15, wherein at least one of the brake
modules comprises a brake assembly to which the rotatable connector is coupled.
        17.     A sprinkler assembly according to claim 15, further comprising a jewel cup
bearing mounted in the rotatable connector and a ball bearing disposed at a distal end of the
torque shaft and engaged with the jewel cup bearing with the deflector plate in the extended
position.
                                                 10

         18.     A sprinkler assembly according to claim 15, wherein each of the rotatable
connectors includes a channel with a cross-sectional shape, and wherein each of the torque
shafts is shaped corresponding to the cross-sectional shape to engage the channel and to transfer
torque between the deflector plate and the rotatable connector.
         19.     A sprinkler comprising:
        a sprinkler body;
        a brake module secured to the sprinkler body and including a rotatable connector
coupled with a brake assembly;
        a nozzle; and
        a pop-up deflector plate disposed in a path of a stream emitted from the nozzle and
engaging the rotatable connector in an extended position.
        20.      A sprinkler according to claim 19, further comprising a nozzle module secured
to the sprinkler body and including a nozzle base containing the nozzle and a nozzle top in
which the pop-up deflector plate is displaceable to and from the extended position.
        21.      A sprinkler according to claim 20, wherein the rotatable connector is positioned
so as to act as a stop limit for the deflector plate in the extended position.
                                                  11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
