ABSTRACT
A multifunction alert pole including an upstanding pole body anchored to a surface, at least one
image capture device in order to capture at least one image and relay the captured image to a
remote location, an audio system to allow audio announcements to be issued through the pole, at
least one light, at least one intercom apparatus to allow two-way communication between the
multifunction alert pole and a remote location; and at least one alert/emergency actuator to
trigger activation of emergency functionality of the multifunction alert pole.

MULTI FUNCTION ALERT POLE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to public security and monitoring devices and
particularly to a multifunction pillar or pole that can be used as an emergency device as well as a
monitoring device.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       Millions of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras are installed in streets and
businesses throughout the world with the stated goal of reducing crime and increasing public
safety.
[0003]       CCTV cameras also have the potential of creating unintended effects, good and bad.
The "halo effect" refers to the potential for greater security in areas outside the view of cameras;
this could be offset by the "displacement effect," which pushes antisocial activity to other parts
of the city. Cameras could also promote a false sense of security and lead citizens to take fewer
precautions, or they could also cause more crimes to be reported, and thus lead to a perceived
increase in crime.
[0004]       Whilst CCTV cameras can provide real time monitoring, the cameras themselves do
not provide the public with any emergency access or communication with emergency services
and the like. Also, for the most part, CCTV cameras are mounted in inaccessible positions.
CCTV cameras are mainly directed to proactive protection rather than providing a system that is
reactive to public danger situations.
[0005]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0006]       The present invention is directed to a multifunction alert pole, which may at least
partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer
with a useful or commercial choice.
[00071       With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
multifunction alert pole including an upstanding pole body anchored to a surface, at least one

image capture device in order to capture at least one image and relay the captured image to a
remote location, an audio system to allow audio announcements to be issued through the pole, at
least one light, at least one intercom apparatus to allow two-way communication between the
multifunction alert pole and a remote location; and at least one alert/emergency actuator to
trigger activation of emergency functionality of the multifunction alert pole.
[0008]       The multifunction alert pole of the present invention will preferably be provided in
public locations or relative to public areas in order to allow a member of the public to obtain
emergency assistance or to alert third parties of an emergency situation. It is preferred that the
multifunction alert pole will be monitored by a public body responsible for the public location
and/or emergency services.
[0009]       The multifunction alert pole will typically be provided with branding information or
advertising information and/or will be provided with information/advertising about the particular
location and/or the public body responsible for administering the pole, nearby attractions and the
like.
[0010]       It is preferred that the multifunction alert pole be provided in a form in which
tampering with the multifunction alert pole is discouraged. It is particularly preferred that the
multifunction alert pole of the present invention be provided with one or more anti-graffiti
coatings or applications applied thereto in order to maintain the image of the multifunction alert
pole.
[0011]       The multifunction alert pole of the present invention will normally be monitored
by/connected to a remote, control room from which at least one operator can monitor the
function of the alert pole and/or the environs in which the alert pole is provided and/or
communicate or otherwise render assistance or advice to persons near the pole.
[0012]       The multifunction alert pole of the present invention includes an upstanding pole
body anchored to a surface. The pole body may be anchored to the surface using any mechanism
but preferably, the pole body will be anchored substantially permanently relative to the surface
and will resist attempts for removal of the pole or other vandalism attempts. The upstanding pole
body is generally provided with appropriate connections, preferably internally to connect a
power source to the pole and/or one or more communications pathways to connect the pole and
components of the pole to one or more remote locations.
[0013]       Preferably, the pole body will be connected to mains power in order to allow mains
or grid power to be used to power components of the pole which will normally be electrically

powered. The pole may include one or more backup power supplies. The pole may include one
or more batteries which may be removable and/or rechargeable. The pole may be connected to a
renewable power supply such as solar power and at least one photovoltaic cell may be provided
in association with the pole in order to provide power to the pole and/ or the batteries. The pole
may include one or more low-voltage or extra low voltage components and may operate on a low
voltage power supply or have a low voltage backup supply or source should the mains power be
unavailable for any reason.
[0014]        The body of the pole will generally be manufactured from a robust material and of
course, a particularly preferred material will be one or more metals. It is particularly preferred
for the present invention that the body manufactured from aluminium due to its light weight and
relatively low-cost and also its robustness in protection of the components and weather resistance
given that the pole will normally be in exposed locations.
[0015]        The pole body may be manufactured from a number of members joined together or
alternatively, a substantially unitary pole may be used. Given that the pole will be in public
areas, it is preferred that the pole be aesthetically pleasing as well as functional and for that
reason, the pole body will normally be manufactured in a hollow box form but with an arcuate
shape, curving from bottom to top.
[0016]        The pole body will generally have an internal volume within which the components
of the pole are provided except clearly for the external components of the pole. Generally, the
operational or functional components driving or controlling the external components will be
provided within the pole body for protection. One or more internal cavities may be provided for
any one or more of the components.
[00171        One or more internal cavities may be provided to allow the storage of items for
public use. It is preferred that any internal cavity storing an item for public use will preferably
have an access door or similar controlled from the remote location such that the operator at the
remote location can open the access door similar as required, to allow a member of the public
access to one or more internal cavities and their contents. For example, it is anticipated that the
pole may include a cavity that includes a first aid kit which can be remotely opened or unlocked
by the operator in times of emergency. Other equipment that may be provided in the pole may
include a drinking fountain or water provision apparatus or even a deployable firehose for
example. Still further, useful implements (such as a compass and/or flare for example) and/or
information (advertising information or maps or the like) may be provided within one or more
internal cavities within pole again which can be remotely unlocked door opened by an operator if

required.
[0018]       Any remotely activated compartment will typically be provided with a release
mechanism. It is preferred that any door or similar provided with a remote release mechanism
will typically have an auto lock functionality when the compartment is closed. Generally, any
one or more internal cavities or remotely activated compartments will be provided in the lower
portion of the pole in order to be accessible by people of all ages and abilities.
[0019]       In a preferred configuration, the multifunction alert pole of the present invention will
be tall in order to give good visibility for the at least one image capture device and the audio
system as well as to provide high visibility of the pole by members of the public should they
require emergency or alert activity. In a particularly preferred configuration, the pole will likely
be at least 3 m tall and preferably around 5 m tall. Given this preferred height, it is important
that the pole be robust and anchored in location securely.
[0020]       It is also preferred that the external surface of the pole be smooth in order to
discourage people climbing the pole and/or to make it very difficult for those without specialist
equipment to climb the pole.
[0021]       The multifunction alert pole of the present invention also includes at least one image
capture device in order to capture at least one image and relay the captured image to a remote
location. In a particularly preferred format, the at least one image capture device will be or
include at least one camera, and preferably more than one camera will be provided. It is
particularly preferred that at least one of the cameras provided is capable of capturing video
footage, preferably in real time and also preferably in adverse conditions such as low light and
inclement weather.
[0022]       It is particularly preferred that at least 2 cameras are provided, a first camera will
typically be a fixed camera that provides a panoramic view and captures the panoramic view in
real time. More than one fixed camera may be provided in order to give substantially a 3600
viewing angle around the pole. The fixed camera will normally record or capture video
continuously and transmit the captured video preferably substantially in real time to a remote
location where the video can be monitored and/or stored. Each of the cameras may be dome
cameras, provided with a hemispheric dome cover for protection.
[0023]       In a particularly preferred embodiment, there may be a difference in the quality of
video captured when the pole and/or fixed camera is operating in normal operating mode and
when the pole and/or fixed video camera is operating in emergency or alert mode. According to

one particularly preferred embodiment, the video camera will record in 1080p resolution at
approximately 10 frames per second in normal mode but this will preferably lift to
approximately 25 frames per second when the emergency or alert mode has been triggered
through use of the alert/emergency actuator on the pole. It is preferred that the switch in mode is
actuated by the alert button and no action is preferably required on the part of the operator
monitoring the feed to change the recording mode or quality.
[0024]        There will preferably also be at least one controllable camera which is preferably
enabled upon activation of the emergency or alert mode. Once the alert/emergency mode has
been actuated, the at least one controllable camera will be initialised in order to, preferably
immediately, commence the capture of video. It is preferred that the recording parameters and/or
orientation of the at least one controllable camera is controlled via instructions given from the
operator in the control room but that the recording is initiated upon the activation of the
emergency or alert mode. The operator will preferably have absolute control over the
controllable camera in terms of a variety of parameters in relation to the at least one controllable
camera including the direction of camera, the resolution of the camera, the zoom of the camera
and the like, in order that the operator can view the area surrounding the pole as required.
[0025]        The multifunction alert pole of the present invention also includes an audio system to
allow audio announcements to be issued through the pole. Preferably, at least one announcement
speaker or similar will be provided relative to the pole in order to allow announcements to be
made via the pole. The audio system will preferably be controlled by the operator from the
remote location and indeed, the announcements may be pre-recorded announcements and/or the
operator in the remote location may make announcements via the pole from the remote location.
It is envisaged that the audio system of the pole of the present invention will be used for verbal
announcements. It is preferred that the audio system is capable of providing an audible alarm.
Preferably, the audible alarm may be sounded when the emergency/alert mode is actuated. The
audible alarm may be controlled by the operator from the remote location.
[00261        The multifunction alert pole of the present invention also includes at least one light.
An identification light may be provided in order to allow members of the public to more easily
identify the pole and its position. The identification light may operate continuously or have low
light/light threshold activation.
[00271        It is also preferred that a flashing or strobe light or function is provided. The
identification light referred to earlier may be provided with the flashing or strobe functionality or
a separate flashing or strobe light may be provided. It is preferred that the flashing or strobe light

or function will flash when the alert or emergency mode has been triggered.
[00281         The light or lights may be of any colour but preferably, a red light or particularly a
blue light is preferred as these tend to be internationally recognised, even for non-native
language speakers. It is particularly preferred that any light or lights are provided relative to an
upper section of the pole in order to keep the lights out of easy access for members of the public
and also to provide better coverage.
[0029]         The one or more lights may be provided as high-intensity or high lumen power
lights. It is particularly preferred that any flashing or strobe light or function may be high
intensity in order to be easily visible, even in daylight.
[0030]         One or more additional lights may be provided in order to allow illumination of an
area as required. It is particularly preferred that the operator at the remote location may have
control of one or more additional lights to illuminate areas as required. One or more additional
lights may have low light or light threshold activation. Preferably, any one or more additional
lights provided for visibility will be actuated once the alert or emergency mode has been
triggered and preferably upon actuation of the alert/emergency mode.
[0031]         The external components such as any cameras, lights and the audio system are
preferably located at an upper location on the pole in order to keep these components out of
reach. Given that the pole will be approximately 5 m high in a preferred embodiment, mounting
the external components relative to an upper portion of the pole will make these very difficult to
reach without specialist equipment.
[0032]         The multifunction alert pole of the present invention also includes at least one
alert/emergency actuator to trigger activation of emergency functionality of the multifunction
alert pole. More than one may be provided.
[0033]         Preferably, the at least one emergency/alert actuator is provided at a user height and
preferably, a height that can be accessed by children and people in wheelchairs as well as adults.
A preferred height is between 1.2 to 1.5 m from the ground surface.
[0034]         The alert/emergency actuator may include a 2 part actuation as this may minimise the
chance that the actuator is accidentally triggered. For example, the actuator may be provided
with a cover and may require the cover to be lifted and then the actuator actuated in order to
trigger the alert/emergency mode. Alternatively, the actuator can be recessed into the surface of
the pole and/or a surround.

[00351        Preferably, the alert/emergency actuator will actuate the emergency functionality of
the pole as explained above. For example, the alert/emergency actuator will typically cause an
alert light (the identification light) to be lit or to enter emergency functionality (flashing or
strobe), as well as actuating the at least one controllable camera and also preferably actuate an
intercom to allow two-way communication between the person who triggered the
alert/emergency function on the multifunction alert pole and the operator at the remote location.
[0036]        The multifunction alert pole of the present invention also includes at least one
intercom apparatus to allow two-way communication between the multifunction alert pole and a
remote location. Normally, the actuation of the alert/emergency actuator will open a channel
immediately to an operator at a remote location. The operator at the remote location may be able
to open a channel at any time to the alert pole. The intercom apparatus will typically allow two
way communication. The intercom apparatus may allow the operator to connect a person at the
alert pole to emergency services to allow communication between the person at the alert pole and
the emergency services.
[00371        Triggering the alert/emergency mode using the actuator may automatically connect a
person to emergency services, but preferably not. In the preferred embodiment, the actuator may
automatically connect to the operator at the remote location at a first instance.
[0038]        Other functionality may be provided by the alert pole for example, the alert pole may
be provided with communications apparatus allowing the formation of a Wi-Fi hotspot within a
particular proximity from the alert pole. Additional functionality such as the Wi-Fi hotspot may
be actuated by the operator at the remote location.
[0039]        The multifunction alert pole of the present invention will therefore allow both
monitoring of a public space and also a mechanism through which one or more person can obtain
advice and/or assistance. Any one or more of the components can be provided with a mixture of
components suited to the situation and particularly, the operator controlled locked compartments
can be provided with any one or more of a number of useful apparatus or influence that can be
used during emergency situations either by the person triggering the emergency or alert and/or
any responders.
[0040]        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0041]        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common

general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0042]        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0043]        Figure 1 is a schematic front elevation view of a multifunction alert pole according to
a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0044]        Figure 2 is a detailed view of the internal components of the poll illustrated in Figure
1.
[0045]        Figure 3 is a schematic view of the components and functionality of the poll
illustrated in Figure 1 within a system for monitoring a public area using a multifunction alert
pole.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0046]       According to a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, a
multifunction alert pole 10 is provided.
[00471        The multifunction alert pole 10 illustrated in the accompanying Figures includes an
upstanding pole body 11 anchored to a surface via an enlarged base flange 17, a monitoring
camera 12 in order to capture video and relay the captured video to a remote location, an audio
system including a speaker 13 to allow audio announcements to be issued through the pole 10, at
least one light 14, an intercom 15 to allow two-way communication between the multifunction
alert pole 10 and a remote location; and at least one alert/emergency actuator 16 to trigger
activation of emergency functionality of the multifunction alert pole 10.
[0048]        The multifunction alert pole of the present invention will preferably be provided in
public locations or relative to public areas in order to allow a member of the public to obtain
emergency assistance or to alert third parties of an emergency situation. It is preferred that the
multifunction alert pole will be monitored by a public body responsible for the public location
and/or emergency services.

[00491       The multifunction alert pole 10 is normally monitored/connected to a remote, control
room through a converter 18, and from which at least one operator can monitor and control via a
controller 19 the function of the alert pole and/or the environs in which the alert pole is provided.
[0050]       The pole body 11 is anchored to the surface using an enlarged radial base flange 17
substantially permanently and will resist attempts for removal of the pole 10 or other vandalism
attempts. The upstanding pole body 11 is generally provided with appropriate connections,
internally to connect mains power 20 to the pole and/or one or more communications pathways
21 to connect the pole 10 and components of the pole to one or more remote locations.
[0051]       As illustrated, the pole body is connected to mains power 20 in order to allow grid
power to be used to power internal components of the pole. The pole may include one or more
backup power supplies such as an onboard 48V power supply 22.
[0052]       The body 11 of the pole 10 will generally be manufactured from a robust material
and it is particularly preferred that the body 11 manufactured from aluminium due to its
lightweight and relatively low-cost but its robustness in protection of the components and also
weather resistance given that the pole will normally be in exposed locations.
[0053]       Given that the pole 10 will be in public areas, it is preferred that the pole be
aesthetically pleasing as well as functional and for that reason, the pole body 11 will normally be
manufactured in a hollow box form but with an arcuate shape, curving from bottom to top.
[0054]       The pole body 11 will generally have an internal volume within which the
components of the pole are provided except clearly for the external components of the pole 10.
Generally, the operational or functional components driving or controlling the external
components will be provided within the pole body for protection. One or more internal cavities
may be provided for any one or more of the components.
[0055]       In a preferred configuration, the multifunction alert pole of the present invention will
be tall, preferably around 5 m tall, in order to give good visibility for the cameras and the audio
system as well as to provide high visibility of the pole 10 by members of the public should they
require emergency or alert activity.
[0056]       It is also preferred that the external surface of the pole be smooth in order to
discourage people climbing the pole and/or to make it very difficult for those without specialist
equipment to climb the pole.

                                                     IV
[00571       It is particularly preferred that at least 2 cameras are provided, a first monitoring
camera 12 providing a panoramic view and captures the panoramic view in real time and
substantially all of the time. More than one monitoring camera 12may be provided in order to
give substantially a 3600 viewing angle around the pole. The fixed monitoring camera 12 will
normally record or capture video continuously and transmit the captured video, substantially in
real time to a remote location where the video can be monitored and/or stored.
[0058]       In a particularly preferred embodiment, there may be a difference in the quality of
video captured when the pole 10 and/or monitoring camera 12 is operating in normal operating
mode and when the pole and/or fixed monitoring camera 12 is operating in emergency or alert
mode. According to one particularly preferred embodiment, the monitoring camera 12will record
in 1080p at approximately 10 frames per second in normal mode but this will preferably lift to
approximately 25 frames per second when the emergency or alert mode has been triggered
through use of the alert/emergency button 16 on the pole 10. It is preferred that the switch in
mode is actuated by the alert button 16 and no action is preferably required on the part of the
operator monitoring the feed.
[0059]       There will preferably also be a controllable alert camera 23 which is enabled upon
activation of the emergency or alert mode. Once the alert/emergency mode has been actuated,
the alert camera 23 commences the capture of video. It is preferred that the alert camera 23 is
controlled via instructions given from the operator in the control room. The operator will
normally have absolute control over the alert camera 23 in terms of a variety of parameters in
relation to the alert camera 23 including the direction of camera, the resolution of the camera, the
zoom of the camera and the like in order that the operator can view the area surrounding the pole
as required.
[0060]       The monitoring camera and alert camera will normally both be controlled using
CCTV software 26 or similar.
[0061]       Preferably, an announcements speaker 13 is provided relative to the pole 10 in order
to allow announcements to be made via the pole. The audio system will preferably be controlled
by the operator from the remote location and indeed, the announcements may be pre-recorded
announcements and/or the operator in the remote location, may make announcements via the
pole from the remote location. It is envisaged that the audio system of the pole of the present
invention will be used for verbal announcements. It is preferred that the audio system is capable
of providing an audible alarm. Preferably, the audible alarm may be sounded when the
emergency/alert mode is actuated. The audible alarm may be controlled by the operator from the

remote location.
[0062]       An identification light 14 is provided in order to allow members of the public to
more easily identify the pole and its position. The identification light 14 may operate
continuously or have a low light/light threshold activation.
[0063]       The identification light 14 may be provided with a flash or strobe functionality to
flash when the alert or emergency mode has been triggered.
[0064]       The identification light 14 may be of any colour but preferably, a blue or red light is
preferred. It is particularly preferred that the light 14 is provided relative to an upper section of
the pole 10 in order to keep the lights out of easy access for members of the public and also to
provide better coverage.
[0065]       The light of the illustrated embodiment is provided as high-intensity or high lumen
power light in order to be easily visible, even in daylight.
[0066]       As illustrated, the external components such as any cameras 12, 23, light 14 and the
audio speaker 13 are located at an upper location on the pole 10 in order to keep these
components out of reach. Given that the pole will be approximately 5 m high in a preferred
embodiment, mounting the external components relative to an upper portion of the pole 10 will
make these very difficult to reach without specialist equipment.
[00671       Preferably, the emergency/alert actuator button 16 is provided at a useable height and
preferably, a height that can be accessed by children and people in wheelchairs as well as adults.
A preferred height is between 1.2 to 1.5 m from the ground surface.
[0068]       The alert/emergency actuator button 16 may include a 2 part actuation as this may
minimise the chance that the actuator is triggered and/or prevent tampering. For example, the
actuator may be provided with a cover and may require the cover to be lifted and then the
actuator actuated in order to trigger the alert/emergency mode. Alternatively, the actuator can be
recessed into the surface of the pole and/or a surround.
[0069]       Preferably, the alert/emergency actuator button 16 will actuate the emergency
functionality of the pole as explained above. For example, the alert/emergency actuator will
typically cause the light 14 to begin flashing, as well as actuating the alert camera 23and also
actuate the intercom 15 to allow two-way communication between the person who triggered the
alert/emergency function on the multifunction alert pole 10 and the operator at the remote

location.
[00701       Normally, the actuation of the alert/emergency actuator button 16 will open a
channel on the intercom 15 immediately to an operator at a remote location. The operator at the
remote location may be able to open a channel at any time to the alert pole 10. The intercom 15
allows two-way communication. The intercom 15 may allow the operator to connect a person at
the alert pole to emergency services to allow communication between the person at the alert pole
and the emergency services. The communications is normally achieved through VOIP or similar
communications software 25.
[00711       Triggering the alert/emergency mode using the actuator button 16 may automatically
connect a person to emergency services, but preferably not. In the preferred embodiment, the
actuator may automatically connect to the operator at the remote location at a first instance.
[0072]       Other functionality may be provided in the alert pole for example the alert pole may
be provided with Wi-Fi communications apparatus 24 allowing the formation of a Wi-Fi hotspot
within a particular proximity from the alert pole. Additional functionality such as the Wi-Fi
hotspot may be actuated by the operator at the remote location.
[0073]       The multifunction alert pole of the present invention will therefore allow both
monitoring of a public space and also a mechanism through which one or more person can obtain
advice and/or assistance. One or more operator controlled locked compartments can be provided
with any one or more of a number of useful apparatus or implements, such as first aid kits and
the like that can be used during emergency situations either by the person triggering the
emergency or alert and/or any responders.
[0074]       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[00751       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.

[00761       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1.  A multifunction alert pole including an upstanding pole body anchored to a surface, at least
    one image capture device in order to capture at least one image and relay the captured image
    to a remote location, an audio system to allow audio announcements to be issued through the
    pole, at least one light, at least one intercom apparatus to allow two-way communication
    between the multifunction alert pole and a remote location; and at least one alert/emergency
    actuator to trigger activation of emergency functionality of the multifunction alert pole.
2.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in claim 1 wherein the pole body is anchored
    substantially permanently relative to the surface to resist attempts to remove the pole.
3.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the pole body is
    connected to mains power or a renewable power supply.
4.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further including
    one or more on board backup power supplies.
5.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the image
    capture device, audio system, at least one light, at least one intercom apparatus and at least
    one alert/emergency actuator are low-voltage or extra low voltage components.
6.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pole
    body is configured as a hollow box form with an internal volume within which operational
    or functional components driving or controlling the light and image capture device are
    provided within the pole body for protection.
7.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further including
    one or more internal cavities provided to allow storage of items for public use, the one or
    more internal cavities accessible via an access door or similar controlled from the remote
    location such that the operator at the remote location can open the access door as required, to
    allow a member of the public access to one or more internal cavities.
8.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in claim 7 wherein the access door is provided with a
    remote release mechanism with an auto lock functionality when the access door is closed.
9.  A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pole
    body is at least 3 m tall and preferably around 5 m tall with a smooth external surface to
    discourage people climbing the pole.
10. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one
    one camera capable of capturing video footage is provided.
11. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein at least
    two cameras are provided, at least one fixed camera that provides a panoramic view and

    captures the video in real time and transmits the captured video substantially in real time to
    the remote location where the video can be monitored and/or stored.
12. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein at least
    two cameras are provided, at least one controllable camera enabled upon activation of the
    alert/emergency mode and controlled via instructions given from the remote location.
13. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in claim 12 wherein once the alert/emergency mode
    has been actuated, the at least one controllable camera is initialised in order to commence
    the capture of video.
14. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13 wherein any video
    captured when the at least one camera is operating in alert/emergency mode is higher in at
    least one image quality parameter when the alert/emergency mode has been triggered
    through use of the alert/emergency actuator on the pole.
15. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the audio
    system allows audio announcements to be issued through the pole and/or an audible alarm.
16. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein an
    identification light is provided in order to allow members of the public to more easily
    identify the pole and its position.
17. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a flashing
    or strobe light or function is provided when the alert/emergency mode has been triggered.
18. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    alert/emergency actuator includes a two part actuation to minimise the chance that the
    actuator is accidentally triggered.
19. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    alert/emergency actuator the actuator is recessed into a surface of the pole and/or a surround.
20. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    actuation of the alert/emergency actuator opens a channel immediately on the intercom
    apparatus to an operator at the remote location.
21. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein an operator
    at the remote location is able to open a channel n the intercom apparatus at any time to the
    alert pole.
22. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the alert
    pole is provided with communications apparatus allowing the formation of a Wi-Fi hotspot
    within a particular proximity from the alert pole.
23. A multifunction alert pole as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein an operator
    at the remote location can control the image capture device, audio system, at least one light,

at least one intercom apparatus and at least one alert/emergency actuator at any time from
the remote location.

                                         1/2
<removed-date>
                                                    10
                           14
<removed-apn>
                                                         12
                    14      23
                                                         13
                                               11
                                    16
                                                         15
               22
              21
                                                         17
                         Figure 2
              20
                                    Figure 1

                                    <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
12
                   14
                   23
                                                 22
                                                                    2/2
                          13   15
                                                 24
          19
     18
               Figure 3

