Abstract
The enterprise software market is massive, with a forecasted $200 bln to be spent on application
integrations by 2019. On average, enterprises deal with dozens, if not hundreds of disparate and
isolated custom applications and software service providers to satisfy their needs. Blockchains
bear hope for a more interoperable future, with ecosystems founded on open source protocols
that allow companies to quickly engage in financial applications, supply chain management and
other core services without fracturing business processes across a multitude of applications and
software providers. Embodiments of the present invention address these and/or other needs by
providing an innovative platform that allows enterprises to develop and deploy Blockchain
Applications and Smart Contract visually without code. Embodiments of the present invention
will enable enterprises to execute their business processes and extract value from the collective
utility of fully interoperable public and private Blockchains and/or will be able to build everything
from smart contracts to UI to integration visually without code.

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

Description
    Every twelve to eighteen months, computers double their capabilities, and so do the
information technologies that use them. Enterprises are under the pressure to compete with
the big players like Google, Apple to deliver similar customer experience to live up to the
expectation of the new generation. Enterprises are not sure of where to start and what to
explore to remain relevant in the industry? Also they don't have a platform where they can
try their problems with different emerging technologies to avoid costly mistakes before
implementing them as a project.
A recent global survey of more than 2,200 executives shows that Digital IQ scores have
stagnated for almost the last 10 years. The main reason for this fall is merging the latest
technologies with the existing legacy or digital systems which are running on multiple
platforms. Introducing one new system goes through a lot of evaluations within the enterprise
which is really a time consuming process which may affect them in winning the race of digital
transformation.
Embodiments of the present invention address these and/or other needs by providing an
innovative platform that allows enterprises to develop and deploy Blockchain Applications
and Smart Contract visually without code. Embodiments of the present invention will enable
enterprises to execute their business processes and extract value from the collective utility of
fully interoperable public and private Blockchains and/or will be able to build everything from
smart contracts to UI to integration visually without code.
By using this platform enterprises don't require blockchain or DLT experts, as it comes
packaged with ready enterprise grade blockchain APIs for both public and private blockchain.
This means that enterprises can now focus on creating truly innovative applications that
demonstrate the potential of blockchain, and spend less time and resources on integration
tasks that are required to stand up a basic PoC or build a Blockchain application. Enterprises
are now able to build blockchain application using pre-built API provided on CORDA,
Hyperledger, Quorum or on public blockchain like Bitcoin or Ethereum.
Enterprises are now able to connect their systems to the blockchain and make them work
efficiently together. This platform will offer full API management gateway with over 300+
ready connectors to secure and manage blockchain APIs, making blockchain capabilities
available across the enterprise at less cost.
The platform will also provide enterprises a clear insights from blockchain ledger which can
help enterprises gain insights from the transaction data in its underlying ledger, providing
important and timely knowledge about your business.
Solution
The platform will help the Enterprises to prepare for the future to attain the art of the next
best in the digital transformation journey. It is a powerful platform where the existing digital
technologies can be combined with the three essential emerging technologies like Blockchain,

loT and Big data to help enterprises accelerate the path to a breakthrough idea and be a
market leader.
The Platform comes with the following:
Prebuilt - Configured nodes: The most basic layer of blockchain on which the applications
depend is a node. A blockchain network will typically consist of bunch of computers running
the same protocol.
The platform will enable enterprises to Onboard any blockchain. The platform would support
both permissioned, private and public blockchains.
Public:
The platform would run public nodes of Ethereum and bitcoin blockchains on the cloud
environment, validating transactions in the network, thus participating in the consensus
process. Transactions can be sent through the network and will be included in the blockchain
if they are valid. Transactions can be read on the public block explorer. Transactions are
transparent, but anonymous/pseudonumous.
Private:
The platform will spin private network for each enterprise with read and write access
restricted to them. Private blockchains are preferred when it comes to scalability and
compliance of data privacy rules and other regulatory guidelines. This network can be
accessed only the enterprise team members.
Permissioned:
The platform helps to set up the group and create a consortium based network where the
consensus process is controlled by a pre-selected set of nodes. Consortium blockchains are
mostly recommended for the financial sector use cases.
Pre-built APIs:
The platfrom offers a wide range of apis across the technologies: Blockchain, loT and Big data
Blockchain APIs:
The platform is aimed to empower enterprise developers to experiment with distributed
ledger technology / blockchain by offering them "a rapid prototyping developer
environment." The blockchain API's have customizable features and settings which are
designed to be used in enterprise environments.

Developers can create digital assets and configure business logic to transfer assets more
securely and privately among members of a permissioned, private and public blockchain apis.
loT APIs:
REST APIs, are key for connecting devices to the Internet. The platforms Device management
APIs grant developers to enable the connecting of things to APIs while retaining the right to
revoke that access when necessary. Data APIs enable the devices to transmit data to your
applications, acting as a data interface. Service APIs allow your application to control the
devices and serve as a function interface.
Big data APIs:
The Platform's APIs sit as a layer between distributed computing applications and storage.
Cognitive APIs process complex, unstructured data and deliver analytics. Enterprises can use
such APIs to create their own analytics dashboard to understand their own products and
services.
Blockchain Analytics API
Big data analytics, machine and deep learning techniques are used to find insights and
patterns in blockchain data. Data stored in the blockchain are loaded into the big data
platform and analytics is done on the blockchain data. These analytics happen whenever
there is a new event on the blockchain. This can help to find fraud and compliance related
issues.
Platform's API Management:
Enterprises can utilize the Platform API Management to expose internal service to others in
minutes. The platform API gateway provides a wide range of policies for fine-grained control
over how, when, and from where your user community can access your APIs. To realize
enterprise solutions full potential, the platform offers a range of connectors to connect to a
wide variety of data sources, including those in-house, and in private and public cloud
applications.
The platform's API Portal allows to define and manage community of API consumers, and
publish a single point of API access for internal or external developers. API analytics helps to
understand the API performance, usage and errors. It also provides the API metrics to the
consumers.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
    1  Embodiments of the present invention provides an innovative platform that allows
       enterprises to develop and deploy Blockchain Applications and Smart Contract
       visually without code. Embodiments of the present invention will enable enterprises
       to execute their business processes and extract value from the collective utility of
       fully interoperable public and private Blockchains and/or will be able to build
       everything from smart contracts to UI to integration visually without code.
    2 The system of claim 1 will enable enterprises don't require blockchain or DLT
       experts, as it comes packaged with ready enterprise grade blockchain APIs for
       both public and private blockchain. This means that enterprises can now focus on
       creating truly innovative applications that demonstrate the potential of
       blockchain, and spend less time and resources on integration tasks that are
       required to stand up a basic PoC or build a Blockchain application.
    3 The system of claim 1 will enable enterprises to build blockchain application using
       pre-built API provided on CORDA, Hyperledger, Quorum or on public blockchain
       like Bitcoin or Ethereum.
   4   The system of claim 1 will enable Enterprises to connect their systems to the
       blockchain and make them work efficiently together. This platform will offer full API
       management gateway with over 300+ ready connectors to secure and manage
       blockchain APIs, making blockchain capabilities available across the enterprise at
       less cost.
    5 The system of claim 1 will also provide enterprises a clear insights from blockchain
       ledger which can help enterprises gain insights from the transaction data in its
       underlying ledger, providing important and timely knowledge about your business.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
