                                          19
ABSTRACT
    An improved apparatus and method of body contouring and skin
conditioning for the treatment of conditions such as lymphoedema by
producing vibrations in the subcutaneous layers of fat. The apparatus
includes a cup which engages the patient's skin surface and a vacuum
source which provides suction and a pulsating movement against the skin's
surface, mimicking the movement of the lymphatic system and flushing out
toxins, fat layers and trapped fluid from the area.

                                            1
  An improved apparatus and method of body contouring and
                               skin conditioning
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] This invention relates to an improved apparatus and method of body
contouring and skin conditioning for treating conditions such as
lymphoedema.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002] The lymphatic system consists of lymph vessels, lymph nodes and
lymphoid tissues and is a secondary system within the circulatory system
that removes waste. The lymphatic system works according to a one-way
principle and is a drainage system to drain away lymph which continually
escapes from the blood in small amounts. The lymph is first collected at the
lymph capillaries, which in turn drain into larger vessels. The lymph is
pumped in and out of these vessels by movements of adjacent muscles and
by contractions of the walls of the larger vessels, move through the
lymphatic system in one direction. Foreign matter and bacteria are filtered
at various lymph node groups after which the fluid empties into the venous
portion of the blood system, mainly through the thoracic duct. A healthy
person will drain one to two litres of lymph fluid through this duct every 24
hours.
[0003] The accumulation of fluid in the tissues manifests in a range of
disorders or diseases including heart problems, inflammations associated
with arthritis and infection, renal disorders and lymphoedema. The
accumulation of the watery fluid in the body which causes lymphoedema
results in the swelling of the body in the affected area, causing pain and
discomfort. Lympheodema often occurs after surgery or radiation therapy,

                                           2
most notably through the damage to the lymphatic system or removal of the
lymph glands due to cancer treatment.
[0004] The current basis for the treatment of lymphoedema is compression
therapy, such as the use of compression bandages and/or garments or
lymphatic massage. Such bandages, however do not actually assist in
moving or draining the fluid and can be uncomfortable. Massage is time
consuming and labour intensive and often does not provide the pressure
needed to drain fluid. Surgical methods such as liposuction are also known,
however such procedures can be invasive and does not prevent future build
up of toxins or fat.
[0005] The object of this invention is to provide a treatment for
lymphoedema which alleviates the above problems or at least provides the
public with a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006] Therefore, according to one aspect, the present invention provides
an apparatus and method of body contouring and skin conditioning
including:
a pressure differential device adapted to produce a pressure differential;
at least one cup having at least a first and second opening, wherein said
first opening is defined by a perimeter, which when placed against a skin
surface defines a chamber, and said second opening is in communication
therethrough with said pressure differential device, whereby an oscillating
pressure is produced within said chamber which causes said skin to vibrate;
and
wherein the frequency of the pressure oscillations can be limited to
predetermined frequencies

                                             3
[0007] In an embodiment, said predetermined frequencies are set through
use of a switch wherein the frequency can be alternated from "slow" and
"fast" settings.
[0008] In an embodiment, said "fast" setting is at a rate of approximately
300 pulses per minute and is adapted for superficial treatment of the skin;
[0009] Preferably, wherein said "slow" setting is at a rate of approximately
200 pulses per minute and is adapted for deeper treatment of the skin; and
[0010] Preferably, wherein said pressure differential device is adapted for
the treatment of medical conditions such as lymphoedema.
     In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of body
contouring
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011] The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and
constitute a part of this specification, illustrate various implementations of
the invention and, together with the description, serve to explain the
advantages and principles of the invention. In the drawings:
[0012] Figure 1is a perspective view illustrating an apparatus for contouring
             and skin conditioning having a plurality of treatment devices;
[0013] Figure 2is a side cut away view of one of the treatment devices of
             Figure 1;
[0014] Figure 3 is a side cut away view of a second embodiment of an
             apparatus for contouring and skin conditioning;

                                          4
[0015] Figure 4 is a side cut away view of a third embodiment of an
          apparatus for contouring and skin conditioning;
[0016] Figure 5 is a perspective view of a fourth embodiment of an
          apparatus for contouring and skin conditioning;
[0017] Figure 6 is a side cut away view of one of the treatment devices of
          Figure 1 illustrating how the apparatus produces vibrations in the
          subcutaneous fat layer;
[0018] Figure 7 is a perspective view of a fifth embodiment of an apparatus
          for contouring and skin conditioning;
[0019] Figure 8 is a front view of the control panel of Figure 7;
[0020] Figure 9 is a perspective view of a handpiece of Figure 7 illustrating
          a large cup;
[0021] Figure 10 is a perspective view of a handpiece of Figure 7 illustrating
          a small cup;
[0022] Figure 11 is a schematic view of the compressor and suction device
          of the apparatus of Figure 7;
[0023] Figure 12 is a schematic view illustrating an alternate arrangement
          of the compressor and suction device of the apparatus of Figure
          7;
[0024] Figure 13 is a rear view of the apparatus of Figure 7; and
[0025] Figure 14 is a perspective view of the apparatus of Figure 7
          illustrating the use of additional treatment devices.

                                           5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S)
[0026] The following detailed description of the invention refers to the
accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers
will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to
the same and like parts. Dimensions of certain parts shown in the drawings
may have been modified and/or exaggerated for the purposes of clarity or
illustration.
[0027] The outermost layer of the skin is referred to as the epidermis.
Below the epidermis is the dermis, which contains hair follicles, sweat
glands, blood vessels, nerve receptors and connective tissue. Underneath
the dermis are the first three layers of subcutaneous fat, the uppermost
layer of which has been described as "standing fat cell chambers" separated
by connective tissue. Water retention and fat build up in the adipose tissue
provides insulation and is divided into lobes by small blood vessels. The
cells of this layer are adipocytes which are specialised in storing energy as
fat.
[0028] Chronic lymphoedema is caused by a high content of adipose
tissue, due to the decreased or removed lymph transport and the resulting
water stagnation and fluid inflammation, causing swelling. This causes
discomfort to the individual as the fluid and fat are not properly drained
away by the lymphatic system.
[0029] The invention is therefore directed to an apparatus and method for
the breakdown of both the superficial blockages as well as deeper fat layers
to allow fluid to be flushed out of the body. The invention is designed to act
as a mimic to the lymphatic system; a tool for moving the whole of the
lymph, or otherwise an extension of the lymphatic system to encourage the
drainage of the retained fluid and fat.

                                             6
[0030] In the working of the lymphatic system there is a continual process
of peristalsis every time there is muscular movement and this peristalsis
assist is the strong movement of lymphatic flow. The dermis effectively
contains the tributaries leading to the lymphatic system and while mild
peristalsis is possible within the tributaries, by using the invention one is
effectively creating a one way valve and with strong pressure created by the
pulsing of the invention.
[0031] This strong pressure in turn creates a peristalsis type action within
the tributary system in the dermis and effectively allows it to mimic the
lymphatic system movements and thereby assists in the removal of
blockages to assist it to flow into the lymphatic system and to be removed
as waste.
[0032] Illustrated in Figure 1 is an apparatus 10 for the treatment of a
patient 12. It is to be understood that while the preferred embodiment of the
invention is the treatment of lympheodema, the invention can be adapted for
other uses, both medical and non-medical.
[0033] The apparatus 10 includes a vacuum/compressor source 14 and a
plurality of handpieces 16, each of which may include a cup 18 or other
device adapted to engage the surface of a patient's body 12. The
handpieces 16 are connected to the vacuum/compressor source 14 via
connection means 20. As illustrated in Figure 1, the connection means 20
may include an intermediary multiple adaptor 22 that connects a primary
tube 24 to a series of secondary tubes 26. The primary tube 24 is connected
to the inlet 28 of the vacuum/compressor source 14, while the secondary
tubes 26 are connected to handpieces 16. The reader should however
appreciate that each cup may be individually connected to the
vacuum/compressor source 14 via a separate tube (not shown).
[0034] As clearly illustrated in Figure 1, several cups 18 can be placed in
different locations on the patient 12 during treatment. This enables the time

                                            7
of treatment to be reduced and ensures that problem areas are targeted by
leaving the relevant cup 18 in place for longer. The present method also
ensures that sensitive areas are not treated for extended periods of time
which may result in skin irritation or bruising. Alternatively the cups 18 can
be applied manually by the user.
[0035] The vacuum source 14 includes a housing 30, an aperture 28
connected to tube 24, a vent 32, a switch 34 adapted to operate
vacuum/compressor source 14, a gauge 36 adapted to measure the
pressure differential produced by vacuum/compressor source 14, and
control valves 38 adapted to alter the strength and frequency of the
pressure differential produced by the vacuum/compressor source 14 during
operation. The reader should appreciate that the vacuum/compressor
source 14 may be connected to mains power or may have an enclosed
battery to provide greater portability. Although we refer to a
vacuum/compressor source 14 any device may indeed be used to create a
pressure differential.
[0036] The apparatus 10 may further include a supply container 42 that
contains a therapeutic substance or substances 44. The supply container 42
is connected to the handpieces 16 via tubes 46. In this way the therapeutic
substances 44 are drawn 30 out of the supply container 42 by the vacuum
produced by the vacuum/compressor source 14. It should however be
appreciated by the reader that the apparatus 10 may include a motorised
dispelling means (not shown) that disseminates the therapeutic substances
44 within the handpieces 16. In this way, as illustrated in Figure 2, jets 48 of
substance 44 may be sprayed from an outlet 50 onto the patient 12 during
operation of the apparatus 10.
[0037] Therefore, the invention discloses the use of a apparatus in which a
cup 18 engages the skin surface of the patient 12 and a vacuum source 14
provides suction and a pulsating movement against the skin surface. This
mimics the movement of the lymphatic system and creates peristaltic

                                           8
muscle movement. This is an encouragement of the natural muscle
movement of the body, which breaks up the toxins, fat layers and trapped
fluid and flushes it through the patient's system to exist as waste.
[0038] While it is a preferred embodiment of the invention that the
apparatus be used to treat lymphoedema and flush out accumulated or
stagnant fluid, it is to be understood that it has other cosmetic applications,
such as the flushing out of fat and toxins from a patient's body.
[0039] As further illustrated in Figure 2, the cup 18 may include a release
valve 52 that is adapted to pivot at hinge 54 when pressure is applied to the
release valve 52 in the direction of arrow 56. In this way aperture 58 is
exposed which allows atmospheric air to enter the cup 18 in the direction of
arrows 59 thereby equalising the pressure within chamber 60 with the
atmospheric pressure. The chamber 60 is formed when the cup 18 is placed
against the surface of the skin 62. The release valve 52 enables the cup 18
to be removed from the surface of the skin 62. The perimeter 64 of the cup
18 may further include a rubber washer 66 housed within a channel 70
which acts to seal the chamber 60. The sealing means 66 ensures that the
entire perimeter 64 of the cup 18 engages the surface of the skin 62,
ensuring that a pressure differential is produced within the chamber 60 even
when the cup 18 is placed on an uneven surface.
[0040] As illustrated in Figure 4, the handpiece 16 may include a
temperature regulator 78 adapted to affect the temperature of the skin 62.
The temperature regulator 78 is connected to a power source (not shown)
via cable 80. The temperature regulator 78, in the form of a heating
element, extends around the perimeter 64 of the cup 18 in close proximity to
the surface of the skin 62. The temperature regulator 78 heats the cup 18
which in turn heats the air contained within the chamber 60. However, the
reader should appreciate that the invention is not limited to a heating
element. The temperature regulator 78 may alternatively be configured to
lower the temperature of the skin 62. For instance, cold air could be injected

                                           9
at regular intervals into the chamber 60 in close proximity to the surface of
the skin 62.
[0041] Although larger areas such as thighs and arms are prone to
lymphoedema, other smaller areas such as the face and neck may also be
affected by water retention and fat build up in the adipose tissue. For this
reason, the cups 18 may be of varied shape and size depending upon the
area of the patient 12 being treated. For instance, as illustrated is Figure 5,
the cup 18 may be kidney shaped 84 to facilitate the treatment around the
temples or on the cheeks. Alternatively, the cup may be cone-shaped or
form part of the handpiece itself. The reader will now appreciate that
several different shaped cups 18 may be connected to a single vacuum
source 14 to facilitate the treatment of a patient 12. Furthermore, there may
be various sizes of cups 18 so that the treatment can be tailored to the
specific physiological attributes of the patient 12. The reader should
appreciate that the diameter of the tubes 26 may be varied or the fluid
communication between different tubes 26 and the respective cup 18 may
be restricted to provided different strengths of suction and compression for
different cups 18. In this way, the cups 18 placed on sensitive areas of the
patient's body can have a lower pressure differential.
[0042] During use of the apparatus 10 the pressure within the chamber 60
is varied by the vacuum source 14. This pulsing of the pressure within the
chamber 60 creates vibrations 86, as illustrated by the semicircular
perforated lines in Figure 6. These vibrations 86 pass through upper layers
of skin referred to as the epidermis 88 and dermis 90 layers. The vibrations
86 then pass into the subcutaneous fat layer 92. The subcutaneous fat layer
92 contains small projections of fat cells 94 that protrude into the dermis 90
and also result in fluid retention. By causing vibration of the subcutaneous
fat layer 92 the apparatus 10 is able to help break apart the clusters of fat
cells 94 and release the water molecules 96 held therein. This assists the
lymphatic system in draining the excessive fat cells 94 and water 96 from
the subcutaneous fat layer 92.

                                           10
[0043] The vibration, or more accurately resonate frequencies, of all matter,
whether inorganic and organic, are specific and unique. Each tissue in the
human body has individualized frequencies. The resonate frequency of
organs such as the heart is around 6Hz while the resonate frequency of skin
is around 1 Hz. Fat cells have a different resonate frequency to muscles
cells. Therefore, the frequency of vibration may be chosen to be close to the
natural frequency of the fat cells thereby amplifying the affect of the
apparatus 10. It should be appreciated by the reader that the frequency may
be adjusted by use of the control valves 34 adapted to alter the strength and
frequency of the vacuum and compression produced by the
vacuum/compressor source 14 during operation. It is envisaged that the
frequency of vibration within chamber 60 ranges from 10-200 Hz with high
frequency vibrations in the range of 1-20 kHz, however, the reader should
appreciate that the present invention is not limited to these pressures or
frequencies.
[0044] In a preferred embodiment as illustrated in Figure 7, the apparatus
10 includes a console 110 adapted to house the vacuum/compressor
source 14. The console 110 is mounted on legs or rollers 112 to assist in
the transportation of the apparatus 10. The apparatus may further include a
foot peddle 114, connected to the vacuum/compressor source 14 by way of
cable 116, which is adapted to control the operation of the apparatus 10,
thereby facilitating ease of use. As illustrated in Figure 7 the apparatus may
include a plurality of mobile handpieces 16 each with different sized cups
18. This ensures that the user does not have to replace the cup 18 every
time a different size is required. The handpieces 16 are adapted to engage
clips 118 on the front of the console 110. A light 120 corresponding to each
mobile handpiece 16 indicates which device or devices are in use.
[0045] The tube 22 connected to the vacuum/compressor source 14
includes a venturi tube 122 adapted to regulate the passage of air
therethrough and filter 124 to ensure that foreign material such as dirt does

                                           11
not enter the vacuum/compressor source 14 which could cause mechanical
failure. The console 110 includes vents 126 to provide ventilation for the
vacuum/compressor source 14. An instrument panel 128 is provided at the
top of the console 110 and includes an on/off switch 30, gauges 36, control
valves 38 and auxiliary switches 130.
[0046] The reader should however appreciate that the invention is not
limited to the above embodiments regarding the configuration of
handpieces, switches and gauges.
[0047] As illustrated in Figure 8 the control panel 128 includes gauges 132
and 134. Gauge 132 is adapted to measure the compressed air flow
produced by source 14, corresponding switch 136 is configured to adjust the
compressed air flow. Gauge 134 is configured to measure the vacuum
produced by source 14. Corresponding switch 138 is adapted to adjust the
production of the vacuum by source 14, while switch 140 is for fine
adjustment. The control panel 128 further includes auxiliary switches 130 for
controlling the operation of the apparatus 10. The auxiliary switches 130
include selector switches 142, with indicator lights 144, used for selection an
individual handpieces 16, switch 146 and display panel 148. The reader
should however appreciate that the present invention is not limited to this
configuration of switches and gauges.
[0048] The apparatus further includes a fast/slow switch (not shown) which
limits the frequency of the vibrations to the optimal fast and slow speeds.
[0049] Figures 9 and 10 illustrate an individual handpiece 16 engaging
different sized cups 18. The handpiece 16 includes a first end 150 adapted
to engage a cup 18 and a second end 152 which includes a boss 154
adapted to connect to tube 26. The first end 150 includes an aperture 156 in
communication with tube 26 and a series of O-rings 158. The cup 18 slide
ably engages the first end 150 and is held in place by the frictional force of
the O-rings 158 as is well known in the art.

                                          12
[0050] As illustrated in Figure 11, the vacuum/compressor source 14
includes a vacuum producing device 160 and a compressor 162. The
vacuum producing device 160 and compressor 162 are connected to
respective power sources 164 and 166 by way of electrical cables 168. The
vacuum producing device 160 and compressor 162 are in communication
170 with selector switch 172. The selector switch 172 determines which of
the devices 160 or 162 is in communication 170 with the handpiece 16. This
produces a cyclic oscillation of the pressure within cup 18, from a higher
than atmospheric pressure to a lower than atmospheric pressure.
[0051] As illustrated in Figure 12, vacuum producing device 160 and
compressor 162 are connected to respective electric motors 176 and 178 by
way of cables 180. Motors 176 and 178 are connected to a power source by
way of electrical cable 182. The motor 178 corresponding to compressor
162 includes an additional fan 184 to assist in cooling.
[0051] Figure 13 illustrates the rear of the console 110 with the back panel
removed.
[0052] The motor 176 and 178 are mounted on the base 186 of the console
110 adjacent to vents 126. The vacuum producing device 160 and
compressor 162 are mounted on shelf 188. Inlet tubes 190 and 192 are
configured to supply air to vacuum producing device 160 and a compressor
162 respectively, which are in fluid communication with handpiece 16
through pipes 26. The supply tubes 190 and 192 include an opening 194
and filters 196. The apparatus can also include double motors if required.
[0053] As illustrated in Figure 14, the apparatus 10 can be used in
conjunction with additional treatment devices, including electrical signal
applicator 198 and oxygen infusing handpiece 200 which is controlled by
switch 202.

                                           13
[0054] It should be appreciated by the reader that the present description
provides, by way of example, one arrangement in which the principles of the
present invention may be employed. It should however be appreciated that
the present invention is not limited to this particular embodiment. It has been
described that an air compressor and vacuum source alternately
communicate with the cup, however, it should be appreciated that any
device could be used to produce a pressure differential. It has also been
discussed that the pressure within the cup alternates between two states;
one of greater than atmospheric pressure and the other of lower than
atmospheric pressure. It should however be appreciated that the pressure
within the cup does not need to be lower than atmospheric pressure. The
pressure states within the cup 18 could alternate and both be greater than
atmospheric pressure.
[0055] The present invention is thus an improvement on conventional
treatments for lymphoedema such as pressure bandages or massage.
Pressure bandages only provide pressure to the affected area and thus only
provide short-term relief without treating the blockages of fluid retention.
Massage, while it does encourage movement of the muscles, only provides
pressure to the affected area and does not create peristalsis nor does it
encourage sufficient break-up of toxins, blockages or stagnant fluid. By
contrast, the apparatus and the frequency of the vibrations mimic the
lymphatic system of the body and thus effectively become an extension of
the lymphatic system itself. It encourages the break-up of toxins, stagnant
fluid and fats, which pass through the lymphatic systems and exit as waste,
thus reducing swelling and discomfort to the patient. Compression does not
achieve this, as it merely pushes against the affected area, rather than
loosening or breaking up the fat layers, which is needed for it to be drained
through the lymphatic system.
[0056] The apparatus and vacuum/compressor source 14 works on the
same principle as a plunger, in that it causes a sucking or vacuum motion
against the surface skin and affecting the fat layers below before releasing

                                            14
or pushing back against the skin. The pull-push movement causes the
break-up of the fat layers and fluid, allowing it to be pass through the
lymphatic system and exit the body as waste. Thus the toxins, fluid and/or
fat is drained away from the affected area and the patient can experience
continual improvement over time due to continual drainage.
[0057] The improvements of this apparatus on known body contouring and
skin conditioning apparatus' of this type relates to the effectiveness of the
treatment found by limiting the vibrations to certain speeds or frequencies.
[0058] The frequency of the vibrations can be altered to provide different
levels of treatment. For example, a fast or high frequency vibrations treat
superficial blockages on the surface layers of skin whilst a slower or lower
frequency vibration provides deeper treatment and thus breaks down fat in
deeper blockages. Thus both speeds drive the flushing of the blockages but
at a different depth which is in line with the universal laws of frequency and
light whereby the faster the movement or the quicker the light frequency the
more superficial it is. An example is ultraviolet light being far more
superficial to the body than infra red, and thus the differing speeds of the
vibrations act on varying levels of the skin.
[0059] The apparatus therefore includes a fast/slow switch which limits the
frequency of the vibrations to two settings, fast, being a rate of
approximately 300 pulses per minute, and slow, being a rate of
approximately 200 pulses per minute. The switch can be set to either
setting prior to the application of the vacuum/compressor source 14 and
provides controlled vibrations at the optimal frequency for treatment.
[0060] Superficial treatment can be achieved by use of the "fast" setting
which is effective on sensitive areas of the body such as the face and neck.
It can also be used for superficial blockages or as a massage tool. Deeper
or more comprehensive treatment can be achieved by use of the "slow"

                                          15
setting which is effective on areas where there are deeper fat layers or
where stagnant fluid has solidified over time.
[0061] While other frequencies may be used, the set fast/slow settings of
the apparatus have been found to create the more effective results in the
breakdown of fat and fluid
[0062] The apparatus can also be adapted for use with other technologies
and techniques, such as ultrasound.
[0063] The skilled addressee will now appreciate the many advantages of
the present invention for an apparatus and method of body contouring and
skin conditioning. The invention provides a non-invasive method for treating
lymphoedema that overcomes many of the limitations of currently available
treatments. The apparatus 10 provides a treatment that reduces the fluid
blockage by assisting the drainage of the lymphatic system with minimal
discomfort to the patient. As the reader will now appreciate the use of
pulsating pressure within the chamber 78 creates vibrations that pass
through into the subcutaneous fat layer. This avoids the use of an
aggressive massage of the underlying tissue which can result in such
problems as bruising and which is not suitable for some people including
those who are pregnant. The present method also means that there is less
impact on the operator thereby reducing the risk of repetitive strain injuries.
As the reader will now appreciate the present invention provides an
exemplary way of treating lymphoedema that is both gentle on the patient
and operator and provides effective treatment not provided by other
methods.
[0064] Further advantages and improvements may very well be made to
the present invention without deviating from its scope. Although the
invention has been shown and described in what is conceived to be the
most practical and preferred embodiment, it is recognized that departures
may be made therefrom within the scope and spirit of the invention, which is

                                           16
not to be limited to the details disclosed herein but is to be accorded the full
scope of the claims so as to embrace any and all equivalent devices and
apparatus. Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification
should in no way be considered as an admission that such priorart is widely
known or forms part of the common general knowledge in this field.
[0065] In the summary of the invention, except where the context requires
otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprising" is used in the sense of "including", i.e. the features specified
may be associated with further features in various embodiments of the
invention.

                                           17
CLAIMS
1.      An apparatus of body contouring and skin conditioning, said
apparatus characterized by:
a pressure differential device adapted to produce a pressure differential;
at least one cup having at least a first and second opening, wherein said
first opening is defined by a perimeter which when placed against a skin
surface defines a chamber, and said second opening is in communication
therethrough with said pressure differential device, whereby operation of
said pressure differential device causes an oscillating pressure to be
produced within said chamber which causes said skin to vibrate; and
wherein the pressure differential device is operable to produce pressure
oscillations at a selectable frequency .
2.      An apparatus and method of body contouring and skin conditioning
according to claim 1 wherein said frequencyis selectable through use of a
switch associated with the pressure differential device wherein the
frequency can be alternated between "slow" and "fast" settings.
3.      An apparatus and method of body contouring and skin conditioning
according to claim 2 wherein said "fast" setting reflects a frequency of
approximately 300 pulses per minute and is adapted for superficial
treatment of the skin.
4.      An apparatus and method of body contouring and skin conditioning
according to any of claims 2 or 3 wherein said "slow" setting reflects a
frequency of approximately 200 pulses per minute and is adapted for
deeper treatment of the skin.
5.      An apparatus and method of body contouring and skin conditioning
according to any of the above claims wherein said pressure differential
device is adapted for the treatment of medical conditions such as
lymphoedema.

                                          18
6.      A method of body contouring and skin conditioning using a suction
device having a plurality of cups and a pressure differential device
configured to produce a pressure differential, the method characterized by
the steps of:
placing said plurality of cups onto a skin surface, whereby an opening of
each said cup contacts the skin surface thereby defining a chamber;
operating the pressure differential device to create an oscillating pressure
within said chamber thereby causing tissue layers to vibrate; and
controlling the frequency of the pressure oscillations by selecting a
frequency of the oscillations.
7.      A method according to claim 6, wherein the frequency can be
selected through use of a switch alternated between "slow" and "fast"
settings.
8.      A method as according to claim 7, wherein said "fast" setting reflects
a frequency of approximately 300 pulses per minute and is adapted for
superficial treatment of the skin.
9.      A method according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein said "slow" setting
reflects a frequency of approximately 200 pulses per minute and is adapted
for deeper treatment of the skin.
10.     A method according to any one of claims 6 to 9 wherein said method
is used for treatment of medical conditions such as lymphoedema.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
