ABSTRACT
Aspects of the invention are directed to arginine-free polypeptide-containing compositions and
methods for treating disorders associated with inflammation or the autoimmune response. In
particular, the polypeptide is etanercept.

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
      ARGININE-FREE TNFR:FC-FUSION POLYPEPTIDE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                        RELATED APPLICATIONS
  5          This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. provisional
    application number 61/504,110, filed July 1, 2011, the content of which is hereby incorporated
    by reference in its entirety.
                                       FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 to         Certain aspects of the invention relates to therapeutic polypeptide-based compositions.
                                              BACKGROUND
             Therapeutic polypeptide preparations are often stored prior to use. Polypeptides,
    however, are unstable if stored in an aqueous form for extended periods of time, particularly in
 L5 the absence of a stabilizing agent such as arginine. An alternative to relying on aqueous storage
    is to prepare a dry lyophilized form of a polypeptide, although, reconstitution of a dried
    polypeptide often results in aggregation or denaturation.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 !0          In some embodiments, arginine-free polypeptide compositions are provided.
    Formulations have been identified for preparing arginine-free polypeptide solutions that are
    stable for an extended period of time. These formulations have several benefits relative to
    arginine-stabilized solutions, including reduced cost and a reduced incidence of side-effects
    associated with the presence of arginine. Surprisingly, an aqueous polypeptide preparation can
25  be stabilized by using a relatively high salt concentration in the absence of arginine or other
    stabilizing amino acid (e.g., lysine or glycine or other stabilizing amino acid, for example, one
    having a positive charge).
             In some embodiments, provided herein are compositions comprising (or consisting, or
    consisting essentially of): an isolated polypeptide (e.g., a therapeutic polypeptide, for example
30  that comprises an immunoglobulin domain); and salt in an amount sufficient to prevent
    aggregation of the polypeptide, thereby stabilizing the composition (e.g., in the absence of
    arginine or other added amino acid). In some embodiments, compositions provided herein are

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
    aqueous compositions (e.g., aqueous solutions). In some embodiments, the polypeptide and salt
    are provided in water without a buffer. In some embodiments, the composition comprises an
    aqueous buffer or other solvent (e.g., an organic solvent). In some embodiments, one or more
    excipients are included.
  5         In some embodiments, aspects of the invention relate to arginine-free polypeptide
    compositions comprising an isolated polypeptide that includes an Fc region of a human
    immunoglobulin (e.g., IgGI). In some embodiments, aspects of the invention relate to arginine
    free polypeptide compositions comprising an isolated polypeptide that includes an extracellular
    ligand-binding portion of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor (TNF). In some embodiments,
 tO aspects of the invention relate to arginine-free polypeptide compositions comprising an isolated
    polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor
    (TNF) receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgG 1.
            In some aspects, provided herein are compositions comprising (or consisting, or
    consisting essentially of): an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion
 L5 of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgG1; and salt
    in an amount sufficient to prevent aggregation of the polypeptide, thereby stabilizing the
    composition (e.g., in the absence of arginine or other added amino acid). In some embodiments,
    compositions provided herein are aqueous compositions (e.g., aqueous solutions). In some
    embodiments, the protein and salt are provided in water without a buffer. In some
 !o embodiments, the composition comprises an aqueous buffer or other solvent (e.g., an organic
    solvent). In some embodiments, one or more excipients are included.
            In other aspects, provided herein are methods comprising combining: an isolated
    polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor
    receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgG 1; aqueous buffer; and salt in an amount
25  sufficient to prevent aggregation of the polypeptide, thereby formulating a stable composition.
            In yet other aspects, provided herein are methods, comprising administering to an
    individual a composition, comprising: an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand
    binding portion of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human
    IgG1; aqueous buffer; and salt in an amount sufficient to prevent aggregation of the isolated
30  polypeptide, thereby stabilizing the composition.
            In some embodiments, a composition contains less than 10 mM of free amino acids (e.g.,
    arginine, lysine and/or glycine). In some embodiments, the composition contains less than 1

        WO 2013/006454                                                        PCT/US2012/044988
    mM of free amino acids. In some embodiments, a composition contains less than 1 mM
    arginine. In some embodiments, a composition contains less than 0.5 mM arginine. In some
    embodiments, a composition contains less than 0.1 mM, less than 0.05 mM, less than 0.01 mM,
    less than 0.005 mM or less than 0.001 mM arginine. In some embodiments, the composition
  5 does not contain free amino acids. In some embodiments, the composition is substantially
    arginine-free. The isolated polypeptide of any one of the compositions described herein can
    comprise, as part of its amino acid sequence, arginine amino acid residues. Arginine residues
    that, together with other amino acid residues, form the amino acid sequence of a protein are not
    considered "free" amino acids. Thus, a composition that "does not contain amino acids" refers
 tO to a composition that does not contain free amino acids but can contain isolated polypeptide
    having arginine amino acid residues as part of is amino acid sequence.
            In certain embodiments, compositions described herein comprise about 10 mg/ml to
    about 100 mg/ml of the isolated polypeptide. In some embodiments, the isolated polypeptide is
    etanercept.
 [5         In some embodiments, aqueous buffer is at a concentration of less than 100 mM, less
    than 50 mM, or less than 25 mM. In certain embodiments, the aqueous buffer is at a
    concentration of about 1 mM to about 15 mM. In some embodiments, the aqueous buffer is at a
    concentration of about 1 mM. In some embodiments, the aqueous buffer is at a concentration of
    less than 1 mM, less than 0.5 mM, less than 0.25 mM, less than 0.1 mM, less than 0.05 mM, or
 !o less than 0.01 mM. In some embodiments, the aqueous buffer is sodium phosphate, histidine,
    potassium phosphate, sodium or potassium citrate, maleic acid, ammonium acetate, tris
    (hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane (tris), acetate, diethanolamine or a combination thereof.
    However, other buffers may be used (e.g., in low amounts) as aspects of the invention are not
    limited in this respect). In some embodiments, the compositions described herein do not contain
25  an aqueous buffer. In such embodiments, the proteins in the composition are self-buffering, for
    example, moderately concentrated proteins can be self-buffering (e.g., in an aqueous solution
    without added buffer).
            In some embodiments, salt is present at a concentration above 50 mM, or above
    100 mM. In some embodiments, the salt is present at a concentration of about 120 mM to about
30  150 mM. In some embodiments, the salt is present at a concentration of greater than 150 mM,
    depending on the amount of aqueous buffer present in the solution. Generally, if the amount of
    aqueous buffer is reduced in the composition, the amount of salt (e.g., NaCl) is increased in

        WO 2013/006454                                                         PCT/US2012/044988
    order to preserve tonicity and thermal stability of the composition. For example, if aqueous
    buffer is present in a composition at a concentration of less than 15 mM, then the salt can be
    present in the composition at a concentration greater than 150 mM. In some embodiments, the
    salt is sodium chloride. The salt component of a composition refers to salt in addition to the salt
  5 present in aqueous buffer.
             In other embodiments, any one of the compositions described herein can comprise an
    excipient. The excipient may be sucrose, lactose, glycerol, xylitol, sorbitol, Mannitol, maltose,
    inositol, trehalose, glucose, bovine serum albumin (BSA), human SA or recombinant HA,
    dextran, PVA, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), polyethyleneimine, gelatin,
 tO polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC), polyethylene glycol, ethylene
    glycol, glycerol, dimethysulfoxide (DMSO), dimethylformamide (DMF), proline, L-serine,
    sodium glutamic acid, alanine, glycine, lysine hydrochloride, sarcosine, gamma-aminobutyric
    acid, Tween*-20, Tween*-80, SDS, polysorbate, polyoxyethylene copolymer, potassium
    phosphate, sodium acetate, ammonium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, sodium sulfate,
 L5 trimethylamine N-oxide, betaine, zinc ions, copper ions, calcium ions, manganese ions,
    magnesium ions, CHAPS, sucrose monolaurate, 2-0-beta-mannoglycerate or a combination
    thereof. Other excipients can be used, as aspects of the invention are not limited in this regard.
    In particular embodiments, the excipient is sucrose. In such embodiments, the sucrose may be at
    a concentration of from about 0.5% to about 1.5%. In certain embodiments, any of the
 !o compositions described herein may have a sucrose at a concentration of about 1% by weight.
             In some embodiments, any of the compositions described herein can have a pH of about
    5.5 to about 7.8. In some embodiments, any of the compositions described herein can have a pH
    of about 5.8 to about 6.5. In some embodiments, a composition described herein can have a pH
    of 5.8 to 6.5. In some embodiments, a composition can have a pH of 5.8, 5.9, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3,
25  6.4, or 6.5.
             In one embodiment, the composition comprises (or consists of, or consists essentially of)
    50 mg/ml etanercept, about 10 mM sodium phosphate, about 140 mM sodium chloride, and
    about 1% sucrose, wherein the pH of the composition is about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0.
             In each of the embodiments described herein, the composition is free of additional L
30  arginine (arginine-free). That is, L-arginine is not added to or combined with the polypeptide in
    any of the compositions described herein. The polypeptide itself, however, can contain arginine
    amino acid residues, as described elsewhere herein.
                                                      A

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
             Any of the compositions described herein may have a commercially-viable shelf life of
    at least 24 months.
             Any of the compositions described herein may also be suitable for subcutaneous
    administration (e.g., non-toxic, purified, sterilized, and/or appropriate isotonicity).
  5          In addition, in any of the compositions described herein, the isolated polypeptide may be
    purified.
             In certain embodiments, compositions described herein may be sterilized.
             Any of the compositions described herein may be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis,
    psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Wegener's disease (granulomatosis), Crohn's disease
 10 (or inflammatory bowel disease), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Hepatitis C,
    endometriosis, asthma, cachexia, psoriasis, or atopic dermatitis, or other inflammatory or
    autoimmune-related illness, disorder, or condition. The compositions may be administered in an
    amount sufficient to treat (alleviate symptoms, halt or slow progression of) the disorder (e.g., a
    therapeutically effective amount).
 15
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             A commercially available soluble form of the TNF receptor fused to an Fc domain
    (TNFR:Fc) is known as etanercept. Etanercept (trade name ENBREL®) interferes with tumor
    necrosis factor (TNF) by acting as a TNF inhibitor. This dimeric fusion polypeptide consisting
20  of the extracellular ligand-binding portion of the human 75 kilodalton (p75) tumor necrosis
    factor receptor (TNFR) linked to the Fc portion of human IgG 1 is currently formulated with L
    arginine to prevent aggregation of the polypeptide (See U.S. Patent No. 5,447,851 and
    7,648,702, incorporated herein by reference).
             Arginine, while tolerated by most people, can cause serious side effects in some people.
25  A severe allergic reaction, called anaphylaxis, can occur after arginine injections, as well as
    stomach discomfort, including nausea, stomach cramps, or an increased number of stools. Other
    potential side effects include low blood pressure and changes in numerous chemicals and
    electrolytes in the blood, such as high potassium, high chloride, low sodium, low phosphate,
    high blood urea nitrogen, and high creatinine levels. In theory, arginine may increase the risk of
30  bleeding, increase blood sugar levels, increase potassium levels, and may worsen symptoms of
    sickle cell disease. Accordingly, individuals with liver or kidney disease, or those using
    coagulants are cautioned against using arginine.

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
            As discussed in U.S. Patent No. 6,748,702, aqueous compositions comprising Fc domain
    containing polypeptides are thought to require L-arginine in concentrations of about 1 mM to
    about 100 mM to prevent aggregation of the polypeptides. It is also believed to be necessary for
    long-term storage (e.g., two years or more) of such aqueous compositions.
  5         Surprisingly, stable aqueous compositions (e.g., pharmaceutical compositions) that are
    substantially free of L-arginine (e.g., do not contain a substantial amount of L-arginine) can be
    prepared such that they are stable for a period of two years or more. Applicants have found that
    by increasing the concentration of salt and by decreasing the buffering capacity of the
    composition, it is still possible to provide a stable polypeptide composition, which can be
 10 administered subcutaneously to an individual. The term "stable" with respect to long-term
    storage is understood to mean that the active polypeptide of the pharmaceutical composition
    does not lose more than 20%, more than 15%, more than 10%, or more than 5% of its activity
    relative to activity of the composition at the beginning of storage.
            In some embodiments, provided herein are compositions, comprising: an isolated
 15 polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75 tumor necrosis factor
    receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgG 1; aqueous buffer; and salt in an amount
    sufficient to prevent aggregation of the polypeptide, thereby stabilizing the composition,
    wherein the compositions comprise less than 1 mM concentrations of L-arginine. In certain
    other embodiments, the Fc containing polypeptide compositions are free or substantially free of
20  L-arginine. "Substantially free," as used herein, refers to a composition without additional free
    amino acids, such as arginine. It is to be understood that the polypeptide itself may comprise the
    amino acid arginine in its structure. In some embodiments, a composition does not contain free
    arginine amino acids.
            As used herein, the phrase "composition" or "compositions" may refer to a
25  formulation(s) comprising a polypeptide prepared such that it is suitable for injection and/or
    administration into an individual in need thereof. A "composition" may also be referred to as a
    "pharmaceutical composition." In certain embodiments, the compositions provided herein are
    substantially sterile and do not contain any agents that are unduly toxic or infectious to the
    recipient. Further, as used herein, a solution or aqueous composition may mean a fluid (liquid)
30  preparation that contains one or more chemical substances dissolved in a suitable solvent (e.g.,
    water and/or other solvent, e.g., organic solvent) or mixture of mutually miscible solvents.
                                                        KC

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
            In addition, as used herein, the term "about" may mean that there can be variation in the
    concentration of a component of the described compositions that can be to 5%, 10%, 15% or up
    to and including 20% of the given value. For example, if a composition has about 10 mg/ml of
    an Fc domain containing polypeptide, that composition can have between 8 to 12 mg/ml of the
  5 stated polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the compositions comprise about 10 mg/ml to about
    100 mg/ml of the polypeptide. In related embodiments, the compositions comprise 50 mg/ml or
    about 50 mg/ml of the polypeptide. Compositions may include more or less polypeptide as
    aspects of the invention are not limited in this respect.
            In particular embodiments the Fc domain containing polypeptide is a soluble form of the
 10 TNF receptor fused to an Fc domain (TNFR:Fc). A commercially available TNFR:Fc is known
    as etanercept (Enbrel@, Immunex Corporation), which is a dimeric fusion polypeptide
    consisting of the extracellular ligand-binding portion of the human 75 kilodalton (p75) tumor
    necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) linked to the Fc portion of human IgGI. The Fc component of
    etanercept contains the constant heavy 2 (CH2) domain, the constant heavy 3 (CH3) domain and
 15 hinge region, but not the constant heavy 1 (CH1) domain of human IgG1. In some
    embodiments, an Fc domain can contain one of the domains described above, while in other
    embodiments, an Fc domain can contain all of the domains described above. Etanercept is
    produced by recombinant DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian cell
    expression system. It consists of 934 amino acids and has an apparent molecular weight of
 !0 /approximately 150 kilodaltons (Physicians' Desk Reference, 2002, Medical Economics
    Company Inc.).
            Other polypeptides contemplated for use in particular compositions and methods
    described herein include without limitation recombinant fusion polypeptides comprising at least
    a portion of an Fc domain of an antibody. A polypeptide fused to an Fc domain and identical to
25  or substantially similar to one of the following polypeptides is suitable for use in the present
    composition: a flt3 ligand, a CD40 ligand, erythropoietin, thrombopoeitin, calcitonin, Fas ligand,
    ligand for receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANKL), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related
    apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), thymic stroma-derived lymphopoietin, granulocyte colony
    stimulating factor, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, mast cell growth factor,
30  stem cell growth factor, epidermal growth factor, RANTES, growth hormone, insulin,
    insulinotropin, insulin-like growth factors, parathyroid hormone, interferons, nerve growth
    factors, glucagon, interleukins 1 through 18, colony stimulating factors, lymphotoxin-,     tumor
                                                       '-7

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
    necrosis factor (TNF), leukemia inhibitory factor, oncostatin-M, and various ligands for cell
    surface molecules ELK and Hek (such as the ligands for eph-related kinases or LERKS).
             In certain embodiments, the polypeptides include without limitation recombinant fusion
    polypeptides comprising an Fc domain of an antibody plus a receptor for any of the above
  5 mentioned polypeptides or polypeptides substantially similar to such receptors. These receptors
    include without limitation: both forms of TNFR (referred to as p55 and p75), Interleukin- 1
    receptors (type 1 and 2), Interleukin-4 receptor, Interleukin-15 receptor, Interleukin-17 receptor,
    Interleukin- 18 receptor, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor receptor, granulocyte
    colony stimulating factor receptor, receptors for oncostatin-M and leukemia inhibitory factor,
 to receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANK), receptors for TRAIL (TRAIL receptors 1, 2, 3, and
    4), and receptors that comprise death domains, such as Fas or Apoptosis-Inducing Receptor
    (AIR).
             In other embodiments, the polypeptides include without limitation differentiation
    antigens (referred to as CD polypeptides) or their ligands or polypeptides substantially similar to
 L5 either of these, which are fused to an Fc domain of an antibody. Such antigens are disclosed in
    Leukocyte Typing VI (Proceedings of the VI International Workshop and Conference,
    Kishimoto, Kikutani et al., eds., Kobe, Japan, 1996). Similar CD polypeptides are disclosed in
    subsequent workshops. Examples of such antigens include CD27, CD30, CD39, CD40, and
    ligands thereto (CD27 ligand, CD30 ligand, etc.). Several of the CD antigens are members of
20  the TNF receptor family, which also includes 41BB ligand and OX40. The ligands are often
    members of the TNF family, as are 41BB ligand and OX40 ligand. Accordingly, members of
    the TNF and TNFR families can be formulated as described herein.
             In certain embodiments, enzymatically active polypeptides or their ligands may be used
    in the compositions and methods described herein. Examples include without limitation
25  recombinant fusion polypeptides comprising an Fc domain of an antibody fused to all or part of
    one of the following polypeptides or their ligands or a polypeptide substantially similar to one of
    these: metalloproteinase-disintegrin family members, various kinases, glucocerebrosidase,
    superoxide dismutase, tissue plasminogen activator, Factor VIII, Factor IX, apolipoprotein E,
    apolipoprotein A-I, globins, an IL-2 antagonist, alpha-I antitrypsin, TNF-alpha Converting
30  Enzyme, ligands for any of the above-mentioned enzymes, and numerous other enzymes and
    their ligands.

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
            In some embodiments, the compositions and methods described herein are used to
    prepare compositions comprising antibodies, human antibodies, humanized antibodies, chimeric
    antibodies, e.g., antibodies having human constant antibody immunoglobulin domains coupled
    to one or more murine variable antibody immunoglobulin domain, and/or non-human antibodies,
  5 or fragments thereof. Specific examples of antibodies suitable for use in the present
    compositions include without limitation commercially available antibodies such as muromonab
    CD3 (Orthoclone OKT-3@, Ortho Biotech), abciximab (REOPRO@, Lilly), rituximab
    (RITUXAN@, IDEC), dacliximab (ZENAPAX®, Roche Laboratories), basiliximab
    (SIMULECT@, Novartis), infliximab (REMICADE@, Centocor), palivizumab (SYNAGIS@,
 tO MedImmune), trastuzumab (HERCEPTIN®, Genentech), gemtuzuman ozogamicin
    (MYLOTARGTM, Wyeth-Ayerst), and alemtuzumab (CAMPATH®, Berlex). Currently each of
    the foregoing is available either as a lyophilized powder requiring rehydration or as a
    concentrate requiring dilution prior to administration. The present composition obviates the
    need for any manipulations prior to administration, e.g., rehydrating or dilution, while
 L5 preserving stability of the active ingredients over long-term storage.
            In particular embodiments, the compositions described herein are used to store
    polypeptides comprising an antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic or luminescent substance. Such
    substances include without limitation: maytansine derivatives (such as DM1); enterotoxins (such
    as a Staphylococcal enterotoxins); iodine isotopes (such as iodine-125); technetium isotopes
 !0 (such as Tc-99m); cyanine fluorochromes (such as Cy5.5.18); and ribosome-inactivating
    polypeptides (such as bouganin, gelonin, or saporin-S6).
            Examples of antibodies or antibody/cytotoxin or antibody/luminophore conjugates
    contemplated for use herein include without limitation those that recognize one or more of the
    following antigens: CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD11a, CD14, CD18, CD20, CD22, CD23, CD25,
25  CD33, CD40, CD44, CD52, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), CD147, IL-4, IL-5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-2
    receptor, IL-4 receptor, IL-6 receptor, IL-13 receptor, PDGF-P, VEGF, TGF, TGF-02, TGF-01,
    EGF receptor, VEGF receptor, C5 complement, IgE, tumor antigen CA 125, tumor antigen
    MUC1, PEM antigen, LCG (which is a gene product that is expressed in association with lung
    cancer), HER-2, a tumor-associated glycoprotein TAG-72, the SK-I antigen, tumor-associated
30  epitopes that are present in elevated levels in the sera of individuals with colon and/or pancreatic
    cancer, cancer-associated epitopes or polypeptides expressed on breast, colon, squamous cell,
    prostate, pancreatic, lung, and/or kidney cancer cells and/or on melanoma, glioma, or
                                                       n

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
    neuroblastoma cells, TRAIL receptors 1, 2, 3 and 4, the necrotic core of a tumor, integrin alpha
    4 beta 7, the integrin VLA-4, B2 integrins, TNF-a, the adhesion molecule VAP-1, epithelial cell
    adhesion molecule (EpCAM), intercellular adhesion molecule-3 (ICAM-3), leukointegrin
    adhesin, the platelet glycoprotein gp Ilb/Illa, cardiac myosin heavy chain, parathyroid hormone,
  5 rNAPc2 (which is an inhibitor of factor VIa-tissue factor), MHC I, carcinoembryonic antigen
    (CEA), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), CTLA-4 (which is a cytotoxic T
    lymphocyte-associated antigen), Fc-y-1 receptor, HLA-DR 10 beta, HLA-DR antigen, L
    selectin, IFN-y, Respiratory Syncitial Virus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B
    virus (HBV), Streptococcus mutans, and Staphylococcus aureus.
 to         In some embodiments, the compositions described herein are used for anti-idiotypic
    antibodies, or substantially similar polypeptides, including without limitation anti-idiotypic
    antibodies against: an antibody targeted to the tumor antigen gp72; an antibody against the
    ganglioside GD3; or an antibody against the ganglioside GD2.
            In other embodiments, the Fc domain containing polypeptide used in the compositions
 L5 described herein are produced by living host cells that express the polypeptide, such as
    hybridomas in the case of antibodies, or host cells that that have been genetically engineered to
    produce the polypeptide in the case of fusion polypeptides or antibodies. Methods of genetically
    engineering cells to produce polypeptides are well known in the art. See, e.g., Ausubel et al.,
    eds. (1990), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (Wiley, New York). Such methods include
20  introducing nucleic acids that encode and allow expression of the polypeptide into living host
    cells. These host cells can be without limitation bacterial cells, fungal cells, or animal cells
    grown in culture. Bacterial host cells include without limitation Escherichia coli cells.
    Examples of suitable E. coli strains include without limitation: HB101, DH5a, GM2929, JM109,
    KW251, NM538, NM539, and any E. coli strain that fails to cleave foreign DNA. Fungal host
25  cells that can be used include without limitation Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Pichiapastoris and
    Aspergillus cells. A few examples of animal cell lines that can be used are CHO, VERO, BHK,
    HeLa, Cos, MDCK, 293, 3T3, and W138. New animal cell lines can be established using
    methods well know. by those skilled in the art (e.g., by transformation, viral infection, and/or
    selection). Optionally, the polypeptide can be secreted by the host cells into the medium.
30          In certain embodiments, the expressed Fc domain containing polypeptide are purified by
    any standard method. When the Fc domain containing polypeptide is produced intracellularly,
    the particulate debris is removed, for example, by centrifugation or ultrafiltration. When the
                                                      1n

        WO 2013/006454                                                            PCT/US2012/044988
    polypeptide is secreted into the medium, supernatants from such expression systems can be first
    concentrated using standard polypeptide concentration filters. Protease inhibitors can also be
    added to inhibit proteolysis and antibiotics can be included to prevent the growth of
    microorganisms.
  5          In some embodiments, the Fc domain containing polypeptide are purified using, for
    example, hydroxyapatite chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, and affinity
    chromatography, and/or any combination of purification techniques known or yet to discovered.
    For example, protein A can be used to purify Fc domain containing polypeptides that are based
    on human gamma 1, gamma 2, or gamma 4 heavy chains (Lindmark et al., 1983, J. Immunol.
 to Meth. 62:1-13). Protein G is recommended for all mouse isotypes and for human gamma 3
    (Guss et al., 1986, EMBO J. 5:1567-1575).
             Other techniques for polypeptide purification such as fractionation on an ion-exchange
    column, ethanol precipitation, reverse phase HPLC, chromatography on silica, chromatography
    on heparin SEPHAROSETTM, chromatography on an anion or cation exchange resin (such as a
 L5 polyaspartic acid column), chromatofocusing, SDS-PAGE, and ammonium sulfate precipitation
    can also be utilized depending on need. Other polypeptide purification techniques/methods can
    be used.
             In particular embodiments, the compositions described herein are prepared by
    combining, in addition to a purified polypeptide described above, buffer, salt (e.g., NaCl), and
20  an additional excipient (e.g., sucrose). In some embodiments, the present compositions
    comprise less than 1 mM L-arginine, while in other embodiments, the compositions described
    herein are free or substantially free of arginine (e.g., L-arginine). It will be understood one of
    ordinary skill in the art that the combining of the various components to be included in the
    composition can be done in any appropriate order, namely, the buffer can be added first, middle
25  or last and the tonicity modifier can also be added first, middle or last. It is also to be
    understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that some of these chemicals can be incompatible
    in certain combinations, and accordingly, are easily substituted with different chemicals that
    have similar properties but are compatible in the relevant mixture.
             Aggregation inhibitors reduce a polypeptide's tendency to associate in inappropriate or
30  unwanted ternary or quaternary complexes. Surprisingly, the present inventors have found that
    by increasing the salt and by decreasing the buffer capacity in a composition comprising an Fc
    containing polypeptide, there is no need for the addition of free amino acids (e.g., arginine,
                                                       11

        WO 2013/006454                                                            PCT/US2012/044988
    lysine, glycine). The polypeptides within the arginine-free compositions remain active
    (effective) and can be stored for at least 24 months. In certain embodiments, the salt
    concentration is greater than 100 mM, while in other embodiments, the salt concentration is
    about 140 mM, or greater. Salts, used herein, can include without limitation sodium chloride
  5 (NaCl), potassium chloride (KCl), sodium citrate (Na 3C 6 H 5 O 7 2H 20), magnesium sulphate
    (MGSO 4 ), calcium chloride (CaCl), sodium hypochlorite (NaClO), sodium nitrate (NaNO3),
    mercury sulphide (HgS), sodium chromate (Na 2CrO 4) and magnesium dioxide (MgO 2). Salt
    both maintains the isotonicity and the thermal stability of the composintion, for example, in the
    absence of arginine (e.g., L-arginine).
 10         Buffering agents maintain pH in a desired range and various buffers suitable for use in
    the compositions described herein include without limitation histidine, potassium phosphate,
    sodium or potassium citrate, maleic acid, ammonium acetate, tris-(hydroxymethyl)
    aminomethane (tris), various forms of acetate and diethanolamine. In certain embodiments, the
    buffer is sodium phosphate as its buffering capacity is at or near pH 6.2. In some embodiments,
 15 the concentration of the buffer in the compositions is about 25 mM, or less. In some
    embodiments, the concentration of the buffer is 25 mM. In particular embodiments, the
    concentration of the buffer is about 10 mM, or less. In some embodiments, the concentration of
    the buffer is 10 mM. Buffers are well known in the art and are manufactured by known methods
    and available from commercial suppliers.
20          When the pH of the composition is set at or near physiological levels, comfort of the
    individual upon administration is maximized. In certain embodiments, the pH is about 5.8 to
    8.4. In other embodiments, the pH is with about 6.2 to 7.4. It is to be understood that the pH
    can be adjusted as necessary to maximize stability and solubility of the polypeptide in a
    particular composition and as such, a pH outside of physiological ranges, yet tolerable to the
25  individual, is within the scope of the invention.
            In certain embodiments, excipients, also referred to as chemical additives, co-solutes, or
    co-solvents, that stabilize the polypeptide while in solution (also in dried or frozen forms) are
    added to a composition. Examples include but are not limited to sugars/polyols such as: sucrose,
    lactose, glycerol, xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, maltose, inositol, trehalose, glucose; polymers such
30  as: serum albumin (bovine serum albumin (BSA), human SA or recombinant HA), dextran,
    PVA, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), polyethyleneimine, gelatin,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC); non-aqueous solvents such as:
                                                      1i

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
    polyhydric alcohols, (e.g., PEG, ethylene glycol and glycerol) dimethysulfoxide (DMSO) and
    dimethylformamide (DMF); amino acids such as: proline, L-serine, sodium glutamic acid,
    alanine, glycine, lysine hydrochloride, sarcosine and gamma-aminobutyric acid; surfactants such
    as: TWEEN-80TM (polysorbate 80), TWEEN-20TM (polysorbate 20), SDS, polysorbate,
  5 polyoxyethylene copolymer; and miscellaneous excipients such as: potassium phosphate,
    sodium acetate, ammonium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, sodium sulfate, trimethylamine N-oxide,
    betaine, metal ions (e.g., zinc, copper, calcium, manganese, and magnesium), CHAPS,
    monolaurate, 2-0-beta-mannoglycerate or any combination of the above.
             In certain embodiments, the concentration of one or more excipients in a composition
 to described herein is/are about 0.001 to 5 weight percent, while in other embodiments, the
    concentration of one or more excipients is/are about 0.1 to 2 weight percent. Excipients are well
    known in the art and are manufactured by known methods and available from commercial
    suppliers. In some embodiments, the excipient is sucrose. In other embodiments, sucrose is
    present in the composition at a concentration of about 1 percent.
 [5          In a particular embodiment, a composition described herein comprises (or consists of, or
    consists essentially of) about 25 to about 50 mg TNFR:Fc (e.g., etanercept), about 10 mM to
    about 50 mM sodium phosphate (e.g., monobasic and/or dibasic), about 0.75% to about 1.25%
    sucrose, about 50 mM to about 150 mM NaCl, at about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0.
             In another embodiment, a composition described herein comprises (or consists of, or
20  consists essentially of) about 50 mg/ml TNFR:Fc, about 10 mM sodium phosphate, about 140
    mM sodium chloride, and about 1% sucrose at about pH 6.2.
             In certain embodiments, provided herein are methods of treating an individual
    comprising administering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of the composition
    described herein, wherein the individual has a disease or disorder that can be beneficially treated
25  with a Fc domain containing polypeptide in the composition. In some embodiments, the Fc
    domain containing polypeptide is derived from the same species of individual as is to be treated
    with the composition. In particular embodiments, the individual is a human in need of
    treatment. When the Fc domain containing polypeptide of the composition is TNFR:Fc,
    examples of diseases or disorders that can be treated include but are not limited to rheumatoid
30  arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Wegener's disease (granulomatosis), Crohn's
    disease (or inflammatory bowel disease), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
    Hepatitis C, endometriosis, asthma, cachexia, psoriasis, and atopic dermatitis. Additional
                                                        12

        WO 2013/006454                                                            PCT/US2012/044988
    diseases or disorders that can be treated with TNFR:Fc include those described in WO 00/62790,
    WO 01/62272 and U.S. Patent Application No. 2001/0021380.
             In other aspects, provided herein are polypeptide compositions having improved long
    term storage such that the active ingredient, e.g., an Fc domain containing polypeptide, is stable
  5 over the course of storage in liquid (or frozen) states. As used herein, the phrase "long-term"
    storage is understood to mean that the composition can be stored for three months or more, for
    six months or more, or for one year, or two years, or more. Long term storage is also understood
    to mean that the composition is stored either as a liquid at 2-8' C or is frozen, e.g., at -20 'C. or
    colder. In certain embodiments, the composition can be frozen and thawed more than once. The
 to term "stable" with respect to long-term storage is understood to mean that the active polypeptide
    of the composition does not lose more than 20%, or 15%, or even 10% of its activity. In
    particular embodiments, the active polypeptide of the composition does not lose more than 5%
    of its activity relative to activity of the composition at the beginning of storage. Stability of a
    composition can be assessed based on potency, appearance, concentration, pH, and oxidation,
 L5 and can be assessed using, for example, hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC),
    capillary electrophoresis- sodium dodecyl sulfate (CE-SDS), high accuracy (HIAC) liquid
    particle counters, and/or isoelectric focusing. Other protein stability assays are known in the art
    and can be used herein.
             The appropriate dosage, or therapeutically effective amount, of the Fc domain-containing
20  polypeptide of the compositions will depend on the condition to be treated, the severity of the
    condition, prior therapy, and the individual's clinical history and response to the therapeutic
    agent. The proper dose can be adjusted according to the judgment of the attending physician
    such that it can be administered to the individual one time or over a series of administrations.
    The composition can be administered as a sole therapeutic or in combination with additional
25  therapies as needed.
             In certain embodiments, the effective Fc domain containing polypeptide amount per
    adult dose ranges from about 1-500 mg/m 2 , or from about 1-200 mg/m 2 , or from about 1-40
    mg/m2 or about 5-25 mg/m2 . Alternatively, a flat dose may be administered, whose amount may
    range from 2-500 mg/dose, 2-100 mg/dose or from about 10-80 mg/dose. If the dose is to be
30  administered more than one time per week, an exemplary dose range is the same as the
    foregoing described dose ranges or lower and preferably administered two or more times per
    week at a per dose range of 25-100 mg/dose. In other embodiments, an acceptable dose for
                                                        1 A

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
    administration by injection contains 80-100 mg/dose, or alternatively, contains 80 mg/dose. The
    dose can be administered at biweekly, weekly doses, or separated by several weeks (for example
    2 to 8). In a particular embodiment, TNFR:Fc (etanercept) is administered at 25 mg by a single
    subcutaneous (SC) injection. Other routes of administration are contemplated.
  5          In many instances, an improvement in an individual's condition will be obtained by a
    dose of up to about 100 mg of the composition one to three times per week over a period of at
    least three weeks, though treatment for longer periods may be necessary to induce the desired
    degree of improvement. For incurable chronic conditions the regimen may be continued
    indefinitely. For pediatric individuals (ages 4-17), a suitable regimen involves a dose of 0.4
 10 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg of a the polypeptides of the invention, administered one or more times per
    week.
             In other embodiments, the compositions described herein are prepared in a bulk
    formulation and as such, the components of the composition are adjusted so that it is higher than
    would be required for administration and diluted appropriately prior to administration.
 15          In certain embodiments, the compositions described herein are administered parenterally,
    e.g., subcutaneously, intramuscularly, intravenously, intraperitoneal, intracerebrospinal, intra
    articular, intrasynovial, and/or intrathecal. Parenteral administration can be by bolus injection or
    continuous infusion. compositions for injection may be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in
    ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative. In addition, a number of
20  recent drug delivery approaches have been developed and the compositions of the present
    invention are suitable for administration using these new methods, e.g., Inject-easeTM,
    GENJECTTM, injector pens such as GENPENTM, and needleless devices such as
    MEDIJECTOR TM and BIOJECTOR TM. The present composition can also be adapted for yet to
    be discovered administration methods. See also Langer, 1990, Science, 249:1527-1533.
25           In some embodiments, the compositions described herein are formulated as a depot
    preparation. Such long acting compositions may be administered by implantation (for example
    subcutaneously or intramuscularly) or by intramuscular injection. Thus, for example, the
    compositions may be modified with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials (for example
    as an emulsion in an acceptable oil) or ion exchange resins, or as sparingly soluble derivatives,
30  for example, as a sparingly soluble salt.
                                                      1C

      WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
           In other embodiments, the compositions described herein are presented in a vial, pack or
   dispenser device which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing the active
   ingredient. In some embodiments, the dispenser device comprises a syringe having a single
   dose of the liquid composition ready for injection. The syringe can be accompanied by
 5 instructions for administration.
           In other aspects, provided herein are kits or containers, which contain an aqueous
   composition of the invention. The concentration of the polypeptide in the aqueous composition
   can vary over a wide range. In certain embodiments, it ranges of from about 0.05 to about
   20,000 micrograms per milliliter (Qg/ml) of aqueous composition. The kit can also be
10 accompanied by instructions for use.
           The compositions are further described below by way of non-limiting examples.
                                                     1 K

       WO 2013/006454                                                       PCT/US2012/044988
                                              EXAMPLES
   Example 1: One embodiment of a stable polypeptide composition:
   Table 1: Etanercept composition.
        Ingredient           Function        Amount per mL of the dosage               Grade
                                                          form
   Etanercept           Active ingredient                 50 mg                  N/A
   Sodium
   phosphate,           Buffer                    0.67 mg                        USP
   dibasic,
   heptahydrate
                                                                     10 mM
   Sodium
   phosphate,           Buffer                    1.04 mg                        USP
   monobasic,
   monohydrate
   Sodium chloride      Stabilizer                8.18 mg           140 mM       USP/Ph.Eur.
   (NaCl)
   Sucrose              Stabilizer                0.01 mg              1%        NF/Ph.Eur.
   (for   section)      Solvent                            Q.S.                  USP/Ph.Eur.
 5 Example 2: Stability data for the polypeptide composition at -70 'C:
   Table 2: Stability Data for Etanercept at -70 'C.
                                                            Time Points (Months)
       Test Method            Expected           Initial         1            3            6
                            Result/Range         Inta13
                         Color < Y3,
                         Clarity < 8ONTU,        Y7-Y6        Y7-Y6        Y7-Y6        Y7-Y6
   Appearance            Report (FIO)           3-6NTU       0-3NTU       3-6NTU       3-6NTU
                         visible particles
   Protein               45.0 to 55.0
   Concentration By      mg/mL                    48.2         49.4         51.5         51.0
   UV
   Size Exclusion        Report % HMW,
   Chromatography        expected result is        1.2          1.1          1.1          1.2
   (SEC)                   5.0% HMW
10
                                                    1-7

       WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
   Example 3: Stability data for the polypeptide composition at 5 ± 3 'C:
   Table 3: Stability Data for Etanercept at 5± 3 'C.
                                                               Time Points (Months)
       Test Method              Expected            Initial         1             3            6
                             Result/Range
                           Color < Y3,              W-Y7        Y7-Y6         Y7-Y6        Y7-Y6
   Appearance              Clarity < 8        'NTU,3-6NTU      W-3NTU       6-18NTU       3-6NTU
                           Report (FIO)            Particle     Particle      Particle     Particle
                           visible particles
   Protein Conc. By        45.0 to 55.0              47.8        49.3          51.3          50.0
   UV                      mg/mL
   Size Exclusion          Report % HMW,
   Chromatography          expected result is         1.2         1.3            1.3          1.6
   (SEC)                     5.0% HMW
                           Report result             460          435           135          180
   Particulate               10 Pm
                           Report result              110          25            55           25
                             25 pm
                                      EQUIVALENTS AND SCOPE
 5         Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
   experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments described herein. The scope of
   the present invention is not intended to be limited to the above Description, but rather is as set
   forth in the appended claims.
           In the claims articles such as "a," "an," and "the" may mean one or more than one unless
10 indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. Claims or descriptions that
   include "or" between one or more members of a group are considered satisfied if one, more than
   one, or all of the group members are present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given
   product or process unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. The
   invention includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is present in,
15 employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention includes
   embodiments in which more than one, or all of the group members are present in, employed in,
   or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the
   invention encompasses all variations, combinations, and permutations in which one or more
   limitations, elements, clauses, descriptive terms, etc., from one or more of the listed claims is
20 introduced into another claim. For example, any claim that is dependent on another claim can be
                                                       10

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
    modified to include one or more limitations found in any other claim that is dependent on the
    same base claim.
             Where elements are presented as lists, e.g., in Markush group format, it is to be
    understood that each subgroup of the elements is also disclosed, and any element(s) can be
  5 removed from the group. It should it be understood that, in general, where the invention, or
    aspects of the invention, is/are referred to as comprising particular elements, features, etc.,
    certain embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist, or consist essentially
    of, such elements, features, etc. For purposes of simplicity those embodiments have not been
    specifically set forth in haec verba herein. It is also noted that the term "comprising" is intended
 10 to be open and permits the inclusion of additional elements or steps.
             Where ranges are given, endpoints are included. Furthermore, it is to be understood that
    unless otherwise indicated or otherwise evident from the context and understanding of one of
    ordinary skill in the art, values that are expressed as ranges can assume any specific value or
    sub-range within the stated ranges in different embodiments of the invention, to the tenth of the
 15 unit of the lower limit of the range, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
             The term "about" or "approximately" can mean within an acceptable error range for the
    particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art, which will depend in part on
    how the value is measured or determined, e.g., the limitations of the measurement system. For
    example, "about" can mean within 1 or more than 1 standard deviations, per the practice in the
 !O art. Alternatively, "about" can mean a range of up to 20%, up to 10%, up to 5%, or up to 1% of
    a given value. Alternatively, the term can mean within an order of magnitude, for example,
    within 5-fold, or within 2-fold, of a value. Where particular values are described in the
    application and claims, unless otherwise stated the term "about" meaning within an acceptable
    error range for the particular value should be assumed.
25           In addition, it is to be understood that any particular embodiment of the present invention
    that falls within the prior art may be explicitly excluded from any one or more of the claims.
    Since such embodiments are deemed to be known to one of ordinary skill in the art, they may be
    excluded even if the exclusion is not set forth explicitly herein. Any particular embodiment of
    the methods of the invention can be excluded from any one or more claims, for any reason,
30  whether or not related to the existence of prior art.
             What is claimed is:
                                                        1in

        WO 2013/006454                                                          PCT/US2012/044988
                                                   CLAIMS
    1.       A composition, comprising:
             an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75
  5 tumor necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgGI; and
             salt in an amount sufficient to prevent aggregation of the isolated polypeptide, thereby
    stabilizing the composition,
             wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a concentration of less than 1 mM.
 1o 2.       The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.1 mM.
    3.       The composition of claim 2, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.01 mM.
 15
    4.       The composition of claim 3, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.001 mM.
    5.       The composition of claim 4, wherein the composition is free of L-arginine.
 !0
    6.       The composition of any of claims 1-5, comprising about 10 mg/ml to about 100 mg/ml
    of the isolated polypeptide.
    7.       The composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the isolated polypeptide is etanercept.
25
    8.       The composition of claim 1,wherein the composition further comprises aqueous buffer.
    9.       The composition of claim 8, wherein the aqueous buffer is sodium phosphate, histidine,
    potassium phosphate, sodium or potassium citrate, maleic acid, ammonium acetate, tris
30  (hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane (tris), acetate, diethanolamine or a combination thereof.

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
    10.     The composition of claim 8 or 9, wherein the aqueous buffer is present at a concentration
    of about 1 mM to about 15 mM.
    11.     The composition of any of claims 1-10, wherein the salt is sodium chloride.
  5
    12.     The composition of any of claims 1-11, wherein the salt is present at a concentration of
    about 120 mM to about 150 mM.
    13.     The composition of any of claims 1-12, further comprising an excipient.
 L0
    14.     The composition of any of claims 1-13, wherein the excipient is sucrose, lactose,
    glycerol, xylitol, sorbitol, Mannitol, maltose, inositol, trehalose, glucose, bovine serum albumin
    (BSA), human SA or recombinant HA, dextran, PVA, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC),
    polyethyleneimine, gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC),
 [5 polyethylene glycol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, dimethysulfoxide (DMSO), dimethylformamide
    (DMF), proline, L-serine, sodium glutamic acid, alanine, glycine, lysine hydrochloride,
    sarcosine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, Tween-20, Tween-80, SDS, polysorbate, polyoxyethylene
    copolymer, potassium phosphate, sodium acetate, ammonium sulfate, magnesium sulfate,
    sodium sulfate, trimethylamine N-oxide, betaine, zinc ions, copper ions, calcium ions,
 !o manganese ions, magnesium ions, CHAPS, sucrose monolaurate, 2-0-beta-mannoglycerate or a
    combination thereof.
    15.     The composition of any of claims 1-14, wherein the excipient is sucrose.
25  16.     The composition of any of claims 1-15, wherein the excipient is sucrose at a
    concentration of from about 0.5% to about 1.5%.
    17.     The composition of any of claims 1-16, wherein the pH of the composition is about 5.5
    to about 7.8.
30
    18.     The composition of claim 1, comprising 50 mg/ml etanercept, about 10 mM sodium
                                                      ,)1

        WO 2013/006454                                                         PCT/US2012/044988
    phosphate, about 140 mM sodium chloride, and about 1% sucrose, wherein the pH of the
    composition is about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0.
    19.     The composition of any of claims 1-18, wherein the composition has a commercially
  5 viable shelf life of at least 24 months.
    20.     The composition of any of claims 1-19, wherein the composition is suitable for
    subcutaneous administration.
 1o 21.     The composition of any of claims 1-20, wherein the isolated polypeptide is purified.
    22.     The composition of any of claims 1-21, wherein the composition is sterilized.
    23.     A composition, comprising:
 15         an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75
    tumor necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgGI;
            aqueous buffer at a concentration of less than 25 mM; and
            salt at a concentration of greater than 100 mM,
            wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a concentration of less than 1 mM.
 !0
    24.     The composition of claim 23, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.1 mM.
    25.     The composition of claim 24, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
25  concentration of less than 0.01 mM.
    26.     The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.001 mM.
30  27.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the composition is free of L-arginine.

        WO 2013/006454                                                         PCT/US2012/044988
    28.     A composition, consisting essentially of:
            an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75
    tumor necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgGI;
            aqueous buffer at a concentration of about 10 mM;
  5         salt at a concentration of about 140 mM; and
            sucrose.
    29.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the isolated polypeptide is present at a
    concentration of 50 mg/mL.
 10
    30.     The composition of claim 28 or 29, wherein the polypeptide is etanercept.
    31.     A method, comprising administering to an individual a composition, comprising:
    an isolated polypeptide that is an extracellular ligand-binding portion of a human p75 tumor
 15 necrosis factor receptor fused to the Fc region of a human IgGI;
            aqueous buffer; and
            salt in an amount sufficient to prevent aggregation of the polypeptide, thereby stabilizing
    the composition,
            wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a concentration of less than 1 mM.
 !0
    32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.1 mM.
    33.     The method of claim 32, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
25  concentration of less than 0.01 mM.
    34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the composition comprises L-arginine at a
    concentration of less than 0.001 mM.
30  35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the composition is free of L-arginine.

        WO 2013/006454                                                        PCT/US2012/044988
    36.     The method of any of claims 31-35, wherein the composition comprises about 10 mg/mi
    to about 100 mg/mi of the isolated polypeptide.
    37.     The method of any one of claims 31-36, wherein the polypeptide is etanercept.
  5
    38.     The method of any of claims 31-37, wherein the aqueous buffer is sodium phosphate,
    histidine, potassium phosphate, sodium or potassium citrate, maleic acid, ammonium acetate,
    tris-(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane (tris), acetate, diethanolamine or a combination thereof.
 to 39.     The method of any of claims 31-38, wherein the aqueous buffer is present at a
    concentration of about 1 mM to about 15 mM.
    40.     The method of any of claims 31-39, wherein the salt is sodium chloride.
 L5 41.     The method of any of claims 31-40, wherein the salt is present at a concentration of
    about 120 mM to about 150 mM.
    42.     The method of any of claims 31-41, wherein the composition further comprises
    comprising an excipient.
 !0
    43.     The method of 42, wherein the excipient is sucrose, lactose, glycerol, xylitol, sorbitol,
    Mannitol, maltose, inositol, trehalose, glucose, bovine serum albumin (BSC), human SC or
    recombinant HC, dextran, PVC, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), polyethyleneimine,
    gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC), polyethylene glycol,
25  ethylene glycol, glycerol, dimethysulfoxide (DMSO), dimethylformamide (DMF), proline, L
    serine, sodium glutamic acid, alanine, glycine, lysine hydrochloride, sarcosine, gamma
    aminobutyric acid, Tween-20, Tween-80, SDS, polysorbate, polyoxyethylene copolymer,
    potassium phosphate, sodium acetate, ammonium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, sodium sulfate,
    trimethylamine N-oxide, betaine, zinc ions, copper ions, calcium ions, manganese ions,
30  magnesium ions, CHCPS, sucrose monolaurate, 2-0-beta-mannoglycerate or a combination
    thereof.

        WO 2013/006454                                                           PCT/US2012/044988
    44.      The method of claim 42 or 43, wherein the excipient is sucrose.
    45.      The method of claim 44, wherein the excipient is sucrose at a concentration of from
    about 0.5% to about 1.5%.
  5
    46.      The method of any of claims 31-45, wherein the pH of the composition is about 5.5 to
    about 7.8.
    47.      The method of claim 31, wherein the composition comprises 50 mg/ml etanercept, about
 10 10 mM sodium phosphate, about 140 mM sodium chloride, and about 1% sucrose, wherein the
    pH of the method is about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0.
    48.      The method of any of claims 31-47, wherein the composition has a commercially-viable
    shelf life of at least 24 months.
 15
    49.      The method of any of claims 31-48, wherein the composition is suitable for
    subcutaneous administration.
    50.      The method of any of claims 31-49, wherein the isolated polypeptide is purified.
 !0
    51.      The method of any of claims 31-50, wherein the composition is sterilized.
    52.      The method of any of claims 31-51, wherein the individual is diagnosed with a
    disease or disorder selected from rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis,
25  Wegener's disease (granulomatosis), Crohn's disease (or inflammatory bowel disease), chronic
    obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Hepatitis C, endometriosis, asthma, cachexia, psoriasis,
    or atopic dermatitis.
    53.      The method of claim 52, wherein the composition is administered to the individual in
30  an amount sufficient to treat the disease or disorder.
                                                     "CI

