                                            - 25
  ABSTRACT
5
  An enteral feeding pump having a controller which takes into account periods of
  flushing fluid expulsion in the calculation of the actual feeding fluid flow rate based on
  the desired feeding fluid flow rate.
                                                                    9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                               5/5
FIG. 5
          Set feeding and flush    89
           setting parameters
      91                                       93
             Is feeding fluid
              loss > 5% of             NO   Use selected
            intended feeding                 flow rate
               fluid deliver
                        YES
               Alert user of     95
            affected volume
             of feeding fluid
 99        Prompt user to use
                  flow rate
         compensation equation
  100                                          101
                Diduerasec
                     w                 NO , Use selected
             compensain                       flow rate
                        YES
            Use compensated        103
               flow rate X n

                                               - 1
            ENTERAL FEEDING PUMP WITH PUMP SET FLUSHING AND FLOW
                                         COMPENSATION
                                          BACKGROUND
 5 [0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
   2014312147, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
   [0001A] This disclosure relates generally to pumps used to deliver nutritional liquids by
   way of a pump set, and more particularly to a pump that compensates for a duration of
io time when the pump is operating in a flush setting where nutritional liquid is not
   delivered to a subject or patient.
   Related Art
   [0002] Delivering fluids by utilizing peristaltic pumps is known. For example,
   administering medicine or nutrition to a subject can be effected by utilizing peristaltic
15 flow control systems. Typically in such systems, fluid is delivered to the subject by a
   pump set including a flexible elastomeric tubing loaded on a flow control apparatus,
   such as a peristaltic pump, which delivers fluid to the subject at a controlled rate of
   delivery. The peristaltic pump usually has a housing that includes a rotor operatively
   engaged to at least one motor through a gearbox. The rotor drives fluid through the
20 flexible tubing of the pump set by the peristaltic action effected by reversible
   compression created by impingement, e.g., pinching, by one or more rollers that
   translate by rotation of the rotor. One or more motors operatively connected to a
   rotatable shaft drive the rotor, which in turn progressively compresses the elastomeric
   tubing that drives the fluid at a controlled rate. The pump set may have a valve
25 mechanism for permitting or preventing fluid flow communication through the pump set.
   The flow control system may also have a controller that operatively regulates the one
   or more motors which effectively controls fluid flow.
   [0003] Peristaltic pumps operate by delivering fluid in small charges in aliquots. The
   rotor engages elastomeric tubing of the pump set, pinching off a portion of the
30 elastomeric tubing and pushing fluid forward of the pinch point, e.g., closer to the
   subject than to the source of fluid toward the subject. Typically, the volume of fluid to
                                                                     9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                              - 2
   be administered to the subject is controlled in the pump by counting the number of
   aliquots, each being of substantially the same volume, and stopping when the number
   reaches an amount
   corresponding to the total desired volume of fluid to be delivered. Peristaltic pumps are
 5 sanitary and generally accurate and therefore very useful in the administration of
   medication and therapeutic fluids to the subject. During operation of the pumps to
   deliver feeding fluid to the subject, it may be desirable to flush the pump set with a
   flushing fluid to clean out the pump set. However, incorporating a flush operation into
   the feeding operation affects the amount of feeding fluid delivered to the subject.
10
   [0004] U.S. Patent No. 4,396,385 discloses a flow metering apparatus for a fluid
   infusion system.
   [0005] U.S. Patent No. 4,474,309 discloses a stepping motor control procedure for
15 achieving variable rate, quasi-continuous fluid infusion.
   [0006] U.S. Patent No. 4,718,576 discloses a fluid infusing pumping apparatus.
   [0007] U.S. Patent No. 4,919,595 discloses a fluid delivery system with deficit flow
20 compensation.
   [0008] U.S. Patent No. 4,976,590 discloses a fluid conduit responsively adjustable
   pump arrangement and pump/conduit arrangement and method, and fluid conduits
   therefor.
25
   [0009] U.S. Patent No. 5,207,642 discloses a closed multi-fluid delivery system and
   method.
   [0010] U.S. Patent No. 5,509,788 discloses a flow-metered pumping with load
30 compensation system and method.
   [0011] U.S. Patent No. 7,534,099 discloses an aliquot correction for feeding set
   degradation.
35 [0012] U.S. Patent No. 8,277,196 discloses adaptive accuracy for enteral feeding
   pump.
                                                                     9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               - 3
   [0013] U.S. Patent No. 8,360,737 discloses dynamic range motor for a pump device.
                                              OBJECT
 5
   [001 3a] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least
   ameliorate one or more of the disadvantages associated with the prior art, or at least
   provide a useful alternative.
10                                           SUMMARY
   [001 3b] In accordance with one aspect, the present invention provides a pumping
   apparatus for use with a pump set to deliver nutritional liquid through the pump set to a
   subject, the pumping apparatus comprising:
15          a pumping device capable of acting on the pump set to produce a fluid flow
   within the pump set; and
            a controller in communication with the pumping device for controlling operation
   of the pumping device in a feeding configuration for producing flow of a first fluid
   comprising nutritional liquid in the pump set and in a flushing configuration for
20 producing flow of a second fluid different from the first fluid in the pump set, the
   controller including a processor and a memory, the controller being adapted to store in
   the memory a selected flow rate and a desired fluid volume of the first fluid and at least
   one of a flush rate and flush volume of the second fluid, the controller configured to
   execute in the processor a flush time compensator for determining a compensated
25 feeding configuration of the first fluid comprising a compensated flow rate of the first
   fluid to achieve the desired fluid volume based on an amount of time the controller will
   operate the pump device in the flushing configuration and the desired fluid volume of
   the first fluid, the compensated flow rate being different from the selected flow rate.
30 [001 3b] In accordance with another aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   delivering fluid using a pumping apparatus that acts on a pump set attached to the
   pumping apparatus to produce fluid flow through the pump set for delivery of fluid to a
   subject, the method comprising:
            receiving input of a selected flow rate for delivering a volume of a first fluid
35 comprising nutritional liquid through the pump set to the subject;
            determining using computer readable instructions a duration of time for flushing
   the first fluid out of the pump set with a second fluid different from the first fluid;
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                  -   4
            calculating using computer executable instructions a compensated flow rate for
   delivering the first fluid through the pump set based on the duration of time for flushing
   the first fluid out of the pump set; and
   operating the pumping apparatus to deliver the first fluid through the pump set at the
 5 compensated flow rate.
   [001 3c] In accordance with another aspect, the present invention provides a pumping
   apparatus for use with a pump set to deliver fluid, the pumping apparatus comprising:
   a pump motor operatively connectable to the pump set to produce fluid flow
10 therethrough; and
   a controller configured to regulate operation of the pump motor in a selected feeding
   configuration that produces flow of a first fluid comprising nutritional liquid through the
   pump set at a selected flow rate, regulate operation of the pump motor in a
   compensated feeding configuration that produces flow of a first fluid through the pump
15 set at a compensated flow rate, and regulate operation of the pump motor in a flushing
   configuration that produces flow of a second fluid through the pump set, wherein the
   compensated flow rate of the first fluid based on the equation:
                                                         X
                                         Xn =
20          wherein
            Xn is the compensated flow rate of the first fluid,
            X is the selected flow rate of the first fluid,
            Y is the flush volume of the second fluid,
            R is a flush rate of the second fluid, and
25          Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing configuration.
   [0014] There is also disclosed herein a pumping apparatus for use with a pump set to
   deliver fluid through the pump set to a subject, the pumping apparatus comprising a
   pumping device capable of acting on the pump set to produce a fluid flow within the
30 pump set, and a controller in communication with the pumping device for controlling
   operation of the pumping device in a feeding configuration for producing flow of a first
   fluid in the pump set and in a flushing configuration for producing flow of a second fluid
   different from the first fluid in the pump set, the controller including a processor and a
   memory, the controller being adapted to store in the memory a selected flow rate and a
                                                                         9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                - 5
   desired fluid volume of the first fluid and at least one of a flush rate and flush volume of
   the second fluid, the controller configured to execute in the processor a flush time
   compensator for determining a compensated feeding configuration of the
 5 first fluid based on an amount of time the controller will operate the pump device in the
   flushing configuration and the desired fluid volume of the first fluid. The compensated
   feeding configuration can comprise a compensated flow rate of the first fluid to achieve
   the desired fluid volume based on the amount of time the controller will operate the
   pump device in the flushing configuration, the compensated flow rate being different
io from the selected flow rate. The flush time compensator can calculate the
   compensated flow rate based on the equation: X, = X/(1-((Y/R)/Z)), where X is the
   selected flow rate, Y is a volume of the second fluid to be delivered through the pump
   set in the flushing configuration, R is a rate of flow for the second fluid in the flushing
   configuration, Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing configuration, and X, is
15 the compensated flow rate. The controller can be programmed to execute the flush
   time compensator if the controller determines that the duration of the flushing
   configuration will result in a volume of the first fluid not being delivered to the subject
   that is equal to or greater than an acceptable threshold value of the desired fluid
   volume. The controller can execute the flush time compensator if the volume of first
20 fluid not delivered to the subject is determined to be at least 5% of the desired fluid
   volume. The controller can be configured to output a notification perceptible to a user
   recommending use of the compensated feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid
   not delivered is equal to or greater than the acceptable threshold value. The controller
   can automatically use the compensated feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid
25 not delivered is equal to or greater than the acceptable threshold value. The
   compensated feeding configuration can comprise a compensated flow rate, and
   wherein the controller is configured to operate the pumping device in a predetermined
   number of feeding configuration periods to deliver the desired volume of the first fluid,
   the controller automatically operates the pumping device in a first feeding configuration
30 period at the selected flow rate of the first fluid and operates the pumping device in a
   second feeding configuration period at the compensated flow rate of the first fluid. The
   second feeding configuration period can be shorter than the first feeding configuration
   period by an amount of time the controller operates the pumping device in the flushing
   configuration. The flush time compensator can calculate the compensated flow rate
35 based on a volume of the second fluid delivered through the pump set, a flow rate of
   the second fluid and a time interval until initiation of the next flushing configuration. The
   controller can be configured to receive an input for initiating the flushing configuration
                                                                        9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                  - 6
   of the pumping device, the controller configured to execute the flush time compensator
   and alter operation of the pumping device in the feeding configuration after receiving
   the input.
 5 [0015] There is also disclosed herein a method of delivering fluid using a pumping
   apparatus that acts on a pump set attached to the pumping apparatus to produce fluid
   flow through the pump set for delivery of fluid to a subject, the method comprising
   receiving input of a selected flow rate for delivering a volume of a first fluid through the
   pump set to the subject; determining using computer readable instructions a duration
1o of time for flushing the first fluid out of the pump set with a second fluid different from
   the first fluid; calculating using computer executable instructions a compensated flow
   rate for delivering the first fluid through the pump set based on the duration of time for
   flushing the first fluid out of the pump set; and operating the pumping apparatus to
   deliver the first fluid through the pump set at the compensated flow rate. The method
15 can further comprise operating the pumping apparatus to deliver the first fluid through
   the pump set at the selected flow rate.
   [0016] There is also disclosed herein a method of facilitating delivery of fluid through a
   pump set that is operatively coupled to a pumping apparatus having a controller, the
20 method comprising providing a memory device having computer readable instructions
   stored thereon that are executable by the controller, the instructions providing a flush
   setting adjustment factor that adjusts a flow rate of a nutritional fluid delivered through
   the pump set based on a function, X, = X/(1-((Y/R)/Z)), where X is a selected flow rate
   of the nutritional fluid, Y is a volume of a flush fluid delivered through the pump set, R
25 is a rate of flow for the flush fluid, Z is a time interval until onset of the next delivery of
   the flush fluid, and X, is an adjusted flow rate for the nutritional fluid.
   [0017] There is also disclosed herein a pumping apparatus for use with a pump set to
   deliver fluid, the pumping apparatus comprising a pump motor operatively connectable
30 to the pump set to produce fluid flow therethrough, and a controller configured to
   regulate operation of the pump motor in a selected feeding configuration that produces
   flow of a first fluid through the pump set at a selected flow rate, regulate operation of
   the pump motor in a compensated feeding configuration that produces flow of a first
   fluid through the pump set at a compensated flow rate, and regulate operation of the
35 pump motor in a flushing configuration that produces flow of a second fluid through the
   pump set, wherein the compensated flow rate of the first fluid based on the equation:
   Xn = X/(1 -((Y/R)/Z)), wherein Xn is the compensated flow rate of the first fluid, X is the
                                                                        9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                 - 7
   selected flow rate of the first fluid, Y is the flush volume of the second fluid, R is a flush
   rate of the second fluid, and Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing
   configuration. The controller can comprise a processor and a memory structure having
 5 instructions stored thereon and executable by the processor that determine a desired
   fluid volume of the first fluid based on the selected flow rate, determine a minimum
   acceptable delivery volume of the first fluid based on a product of the desired fluid
   volume and a tolerance factor, and determine a modified fluid volume based on the
   flush volume and the flush rate, wherein the processor regulates operation of the pump
10 motor in the selected feeding configuration if the modified fluid volume is greater than
   the minimum acceptable delivery volume, and regulates operation of the pump motor
   in the compensated feeding configuration if the modified fluid volume is equal to or less
   than the minimum acceptable delivery volume. The tolerance factor can be at least
   0.75.
15
   [0018] Other advantages and features will be in part apparent and in part pointed out
   hereinafter.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20
   [001 8a] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way
   of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   [0019] FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration showing a perspective view of a feeding pump
25 and a fragmentary portion of a feeding set (illustrated schematically) received on the
   pump that may implement one or more aspects disclosed herein;
   [0020] FIG. 2 is a schematic illustration showing a perspective view of the pump of
   FIG. 1 with a cassette housing of the feeding set removed;
30
   [0021] FIG. 3 is a schematic illustration showing a perspective of the pump of FIG. 1,
   without the feeding set;
   [0022] FIG. 4 is a block diagram of showing components of the feeding pump that may
35 be utilized to implement one or more aspects disclosed herein; and
   [0023] FIG. 5 is a flow chart of a flush time compensation routine in accordance with
                                                                       9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                - 8
   one or more aspects disclosed herein.
   [0024] Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout
   the several views of the drawings.
 5
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0025] In accordance with one or more aspects, a pumping apparatus for use with a
   pump set to deliver fluid through the pump set to a subject includes a pumping device
io capable of acting on the pump set to produce a fluid flow within the pump set and a
   controller in communication with the pumping device for controlling operation of the
   pumping device in a feeding configuration for producing flow of a first fluid in the pump
   set and in a flushing configuration for producing flow of a second fluid different from the
   first fluid in the pump set, wherein the controller includes a processor and a memory,
15 the controller being adapted to store in the memory a selected flow rate and a desired
   fluid volume of the first fluid and at least one of a flush rate and flush volume of the
   second fluid, the processor configured to retrieve instructions from the memory and
   execute a flush time compensator for determining a compensated feeding
   configuration of the first fluid based on an amount of time the controller will operate the
20 pump device in the flushing configuration and the desired fluid volume of the first fluid.
   The compensated feeding configuration can include a compensated flow rate of the
   first fluid to achieve the desired fluid volume based on the amount of time the controller
   will operate the pump device in the flushing configuration. The compensated flow rate
   is typically different from the selected flow rate. The flush time compensator can
25 calculate the compensated flow rate based on the equation: X, = X/(1-((Y/R)/Z)), where
   X is the selected flow rate, Y is a volume of the second fluid to be delivered through the
   pump set in the flushing configuration, R is a rate of flow for the second fluid in the
   flushing configuration, Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing configuration,
   and X, is the compensated flow rate. The controller can be programmed to execute the
30 flush time compensator if the controller determines that the duration of the flushing
   configuration will result in a volume of the first fluid not being delivered to the subject
   that is equal to or greater than an acceptable threshold value of the desired fluid
   volume. The controller can execute the flush time compensator if the volume of first
   fluid not delivered to the subject is determined to be at least 5% of the desired fluid
35 volume. The controller can be configured to output a notification perceptible to a user
   recommending use of the compensated feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid
   not delivered is equal to or greater than the acceptable threshold value. The controller
                                                                        9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                - 9
   can automatically use the compensated feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid
   not delivered is equal to or greater than the acceptable threshold value. The
   compensated feeding configuration can include a compensated flow rate. In still certain
   embodiments. The controller can be configured to operate the pumping device in a
 5 predetermined number of feeding configuration periods to deliver the desired volume of
   the first fluid. The controller can automatically operate the pumping device in a first of
   the periods at the selected flow rate of the first fluid and operates the pumping device
   in a second of the periods at the compensated flow rate of the first fluid. The second
   feeding configuration period can be shorter than the first feeding configuration period
10 by an amount of time the controller operates the pumping device in the flushing
   configuration. The flush time compensator can calculate the compensated flow rate
   based on a volume of the second fluid delivered through the pump set, a flow rate of
   the second fluid and a time interval until initiation of the next flushing configuration. The
   controller can be configured to receive user input for initiating the flushing configuration
15 of the pumping device. The flush time compensator can alter operation of the pumping
   device in the feeding configuration after receiving the user input. The first fluid can be a
   nutritional liquid and the second fluid is water. The memory can be selected from a
   group consisting of: random access memory, flash, EEPROM, PROM, and disk.
20 [0026] In accordance with one or more aspects, a method of delivering fluid using a
   pumping apparatus that acts on a pump set attached to the pumping apparatus to
   produce fluid flow through the pump set for delivery of fluid to a subject. The method
   can involve receiving input of a selected flow rate for delivering a volume of a first fluid
   through the pump set to the subject, determining using computer readable instructions
25 a duration of time for flushing the first fluid out of the pump set with a second fluid
   different from the first fluid, and calculating using computer executable instructions a
   compensated flow rate for delivering the first fluid through the pump set based on the
   duration of time for flushing the first fluid out of the pump set. In some cases, the
   method can further involve operating the pumping apparatus to deliver the first fluid
30 through the pump set at the compensated flow rate. The method can further include
   operating the pumping apparatus to deliver the first fluid through the pump set at the
   selected flow rate.
   [0027] In accordance with one or more aspects, a computer-readable medium having
   computer-executable instructions stored thereon that perform a method of delivering
35 fluid through a pump set that is operatively coupled to a pumping apparatus. The
                                                                       9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                 -  10
   instructions can provide a flush setting adjustment factor that adjusts a flow rate of a
   nutritional fluid delivered through the pump set based on a function, Xn           =   X/(1
   ((Y/R)/Z)), where X is a selected flow rate of the nutritional fluid, Y is a volume of a
   flush fluid delivered through the pump set, R is a rate of flow for the flush fluid, Z is a
 5 time interval until onset of the next delivery of the flush fluid, and Xn is an adjusted flow
   rate for the nutritional fluid.
   [0028] In accordance with one or more aspects, a pumping apparatus for use with a
   pump set to deliver fluid. The pumping apparatus can comprise a pumping device
   configured to act on the pump set to produce fluid flow therethrough; and a controller
10 configured to regulate operation of the pumping device in a selected feeding
   configuration that produces flow of a first fluid through the pump set at a selected flow
   rate, regulate operation of the pumping device in a compensated feeding configuration
   that produces flow of a first fluid through the pump set at a compensated flow rate, and
   regulate operation of the pumping device in a flushing configuration that produces flow
15 of a second fluid through the pump set, wherein the compensated flow rate of the first
   fluid based on the equation:
                                                        X
                                        Xn =
                                              xn
   wherein Xn is the compensated flow rate of the first fluid, X is the selected flow rate of
   the first fluid, Y is the flush volume of the second fluid, R is a flush rate of the second
20 fluid, and Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing configuration. The controller
   can comprise a processor; and a memory structure having instructions stored thereon
   and executable by the processor that determine a desired fluid volume of the first fluid
   based on the selected flow rate, determine a minimum acceptable delivery volume of
   the first fluid based on a product of the desired fluid volume and a tolerance factor, and
25 determine a modified fluid volume based on the flush volume and the flush rate,
   wherein the processor regulates operation of the pump motor in the selected feeding
   configuration if the modified fluid volume is greater than the minimum acceptable
   delivery volume, and regulates operation of the pump motor in the compensated
   feeding configuration if the modified fluid volume is equal to or less than the minimum
30 acceptable delivery volume. The tolerance factor can be at least 0.75.
                                                                        9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               -  11
   [0029] Referring now to the exemplary embodiment schematically illustrated in FIGS.
   1-3, an enteral feeding pump as a pumping apparatus is generally indicated at 1. The
   pump 1 may comprise a housing 3 that is constructed so as to allow an administration
   feeding set 5 (broadly, "a pump set") to be loaded or mounted to the housing. The
 5 housing 3 may comprise a recess 7 (FIG. 3) for receiving a cassette 9 of the feeding
   set 5 to load the feeding set on the pump. The administration feeding set 5 can
   comprise tubing, e.g., flexible elastomeric tubing, indicated generally at 11 that
   provides a fluidic pathway between a bag 12 of a first fluid, such as a nutritional liquid
   (broadly, "a feeding fluid source") and a subject or patient (FIG. 1). The tubing 11 may
io also provide a fluidic pathway between a bag 13 of a second fluid such as a flushing
   liquid (broadly, "a flushing liquid source") and the subject. In one embodiment the
   flushing liquid may be water, and the nutritional liquid may be a nutritional formula. The
   bags 12, 13 are shown schematically in FIG. 1. The cassette 9 may mount the tubing
   11 for engaging the tubing with the pump 1 when the cassette is received in the recess
15 7. It will be understood that a pump set may have a construction other than shown
   herein without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example a pump
   set (not shown) may not include a cassette 9 as illustrated herein. Thus, some aspects
   may be advantageously incorporated into peristaltic type flow control apparatus that
   controls delivery of the first fluid and controls flow of the second fluid. Further, one or
20 more of the disclosed features and aspects may be implemented in other non
   peristaltic flow control apparatus that delivers a first fluid and utilizes a flushing or
   second fluid.
   [0030] As used herein, the term "load" means that the tubing 11 is engaged with the
   pump 1 so that the administration feeding set 5 is ready for operation with the pump to
25 deliver fluid to a subject. It will be appreciated that the term "housing," as used herein,
   may include many forms of supporting structures including, without limitation, multi-part
   structures and structures that do not enclose or house the working components of the
   pump 1.
   [0031] The pump 1 may include a user interface 19 with a display screen indicated at
30 21 on the front of the housing 3 that is capable of displaying information about the
   status and operation of the pump. The pump 1 can further comprise buttons 23 and
   light emitting diodes 25 on the housing 3 for use with the display screen 21 to facilitate
   exchanging information, such as providing and obtaining information, between the
   pump 1 and a user. Various user interfaces for displaying information to the user and
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                             - 12
   receiving user input may be implemented. Any of the various configurations of the user
   interface can involve utilizing one or more graphical display subcomponents. As an
   example, the display screen 21 may be a graphical user interface having a touch
   screen by which the user can provide the input information. In other embodiments, the
 5 user interface can be a tethered component that can be used to provide input
   information, provide operating information pertaining to the flow control apparatus, or
   both, e.g., to input operating parameters and type of fluid information. Still other
   variants can involve utilizing remote input and output subsystems to facilitate exchange
   of the information. For example, the pump 1 may be connected to a remote user
1o interface (not shown) with at least one output device such as display screen and to at
   least one input device such as a keyboard by a tether to facilitate the data exchange.
   In other cases, the user interface can be in wireless communication with the pump
   through, for example, any one or more of a wireless local area network, a wide area
   network, and a cellular communication system. In still other cases, the pump may have
is at least one of a visible and an audible output device that provide a notification that is
   perceptible by the subject or a user of the pump, which can provide an indication or
   recommendation to initiate or use the compensated feeding configuration if, for
   example, the volume of the first fluid not delivered is or is expected to be equal to or
   greater than an acceptable threshold value.
20 [0032] Referring to FIGS. 2-4, the pump 1 may include a pump motor 27 (FIG. 4)
   located in the housing 3. A pump rotor 29 may be mounted on a rotatable shaft 31 and
   rotated by the motor 27. In one embodiment, the pump rotor 29 includes an inner disk
   39, an outer disk 41, and preferably a plurality of rollers 43 mounted between the inner
   and outer disks rotatable about their longitudinal axes relative to the disks. The motor
25 27 may also be connected to a valve shaft 45 (FIG. 3). It will be understood that the
   valve shaft 45 could be omitted, or a separate motor (not shown) could be provided to
   operate the valve shaft. The rollers 43 may engage the administration feeding set 5 for
   moving fluid through the feeding set. In the illustrated embodiment, the pump motor 27,
   rotatable shaft 31 , rotor 29, and valve shaft 45 may broadly be considered "a pumping
30 device". It will be understood that peristaltic pumps that use mechanisms other than
   rollers may fall within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, a linear
   peristaltic pump could be used to incorporate one or more aspects or features
   disclosed herein. In other cases, the pumping device may be considered as only the
   peristaltic subsystem, without necessarily involving the valve shaft.
                                                                    9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                              - 13
   [0033] Referring to FIGS. 1, 2 and 4, the tubing 11 of the administration feeding set 5
   provides a fluid pathway between at least one source of fluid and a subject. In the
   illustrated embodiment, the tubing provides a fluid pathway for two or more fluid
   sources, e.g., bags 12 and 13. A first inlet tube section 47 is connected at an inlet of
 5 the tubing 11 to bag 12 of feeding fluid and to valve mechanism 49. A second inlet tube
   section 51 is connected at an inlet of the tubing 11 to bag 13 of flushing fluid and to the
   valve mechanism. The valve mechanism 49 is operable to selectively permit flow of
   feeding fluid from bag 12 or flushing fluid from bag 13, or prevent any fluid flow
   communication from the feeding or flushing fluid bags 12, 13 past the valve
10 mechanism. Thus, the valve mechanism 49 can be turned to three positions; a first
   position closes off all fluid flow from the inlet tube sections 47, 51 past the valve
   mechanism 49; a second position allows feeding fluid to flow from bag 12 past the
   valve mechanism, and a third position allows flushing fluid to flow from bag 13 past the
   valve mechanism. As previously stated, pump sets of different constructions may be
15 used, for example a recertification set may be used to verify and/or correct the pump
   accuracy. The pump 1 can be configured to automatically recognize what kind of set is
   installed and to alter its operation to conform to that called for by the particular
   administration set. For example, the feeding set can have indicia (not shown) that can
   be linked to the pump and provide a signal that is representative of the type of pump
20 set. Non-limiting examples, of such indicia include position-dependent magnetic
   interactive systems, electromagnetic signal processing systems, barcode systems, and
   combinations thereof. Still further, the pump 1 can be configured to recognize whether
   the tubing 11 is properly installed on the pump. In use, the feeding fluid bag 12 and
   flushing fluid bag 13 can be hung from a suitable support, such as an IV pole (not
25 shown).
   [0034] The pump 1 can be programmed or otherwise controlled for operation in a
   desired manner. For instance, the pump 1 can begin operation to provide feeding fluid
   from bag 12 to the subject. A user such as a care giver may select (for example) the
   amount of fluid to be delivered, the flow rate of the fluid and the frequency of fluid
30 delivery. The pump 1 may have a controller 77 (FIG. 4) including a processor such as
   a microprocessor 79 that allows it to accept programming and/or to include
   preprogrammed operational routines, e.g., algorithm, that can be initiated by the user.
   The controller 77 may also be in communication with an administration set positioning
   sensor (not shown) that detects whether the administration feeding set 5 has been
35 positioned properly. Other sensors (not shown), such as a sensor that determines the
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               - 14
   type of administration set that has been placed in the pump 1 and a flow monitoring
   sensor for detecting occlusions in the tubing 11 can be in communication with the
   controller 77 to facilitate accurate operation of the pump. The controller 77 may also be
   connected to the pump motor 27 for controlling its operation to actuate the valve
 5 mechanism 49 and the rotor 29. The pump motor 27 can operate the valve mechanism
   49 and rotor 29 independently of each other. Other variants can involve actuating the
   valve mechanism 49 with the valve actuator or valve shaft 45 that is coupled to the
   controller 77, without being coupled to the pump motor 27. Thus, one or embodiments
   can involve energizing or controlling the pump in one or more flow configurations, with
10 or without actuating the valve actuator.
   [0035] If the pump 1 is to deliver feeding fluid from the bag 12 to the subject, the valve
   shaft 45 is rotated so that the valve mechanism 49 is moved to the second position in
   which fluid communication from the feeding fluid bag 12 past the valve mechanism is
   open and fluid communication from the flushing fluid bag 13 past the valve mechanism
15 is closed. The pump 1 may be programmed or the user may input or select, for
   example, the amount of feeding fluid to be delivered to the subject, the flow rate at
   which the feeding fluid is to be delivered, and the frequency at which the feeding fluid
   is delivered. The amount of feeding fluid that is delivered to the subject is typically
   controlled by the number of rotations of the rotor 29 (in a counterclockwise direction as
20 viewed in FIG. 2). In the exemplarily illustrated embodiment, the rotor 29 includes three
   rollers 43 so that each one-third of a rotation delivers one aliquot of fluid to the subject.
   The rotor can include additional rollers, each equispatially distributed about the
   periphery of the rotor. As each roller 43 first engages the tubing 11, it pinches off the
   tubing thereby closing off an amount of fluid forward (i.e., toward the subject) from the
25 fluid coming from the feeding fluid bag 12. The roller 43 continues in the
   counterclockwise rotation which pushes the pinched-off volume of fluid forward of the
   roller, e.g., the aliquot, toward the subject. Finally, the leading roller 43 releases
   engagement with the tubing 11 at about the same time the trailing roller engages the
   tubing for pinching it off for delivering the next aliquot of fluid. Thus, when the
30 microprocessor 79 receives a command to deliver a selected fluid flow rate, it
   calculates the number of rotations within a given period of time that will deliver a
   number of aliquots producing the desired flow rate. It is to be understood that other
   ways of changing rotor operation could be used to maintain a constant flow rate. The
   selected flow rate may be a rate that is input or selected by the doctor, nurse or other
35 care giver, or may be a default feeding rate pre-programmed into the pump 1.
                                                                        9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               -  15
   [0036] In one embodiment, if the pump 1 is to deliver flushing fluid from the bag 13 to
   the subject and effect a flushing configuration, the valve shaft 45 is rotated so that the
   valve mechanism 49 is moved to the third position in which fluid communication from
   the flushing fluid bag 13 past the valve mechanism is open and fluid communication
 5 from the feeding fluid bag 12 past the valve mechanism is closed. The amount of
   flushing fluid that is delivered through the tubing 11 is also controlled by the number of
   rotations of the rotor 29. The pump 1 may be programmed or the user may select (for
   example) the amount of flushing fluid to be delivered through the tubing, the rate at
   which the flushing fluid is to be delivered and the frequency or interval at which the
io flushing fluid is delivered. A flush cycle or flushing configuration period may operate at
   a programmed or selected interval after the feeding cycle, e.g., a feeding configuration
   period, is initiated. For example, if a flush interval of two hours is programmed or
   selected, the pump 1 may supply the selected volume of flush fluid at the selected rate
   two hours after initiating the feeding cycle. Subsequently, depending upon the length of
15 the total feeding time, the flush cycle will be initiated or performed every two hours for
   the duration of the total feeding time. When the flush cycle is initiated it interrupts the
   initiated feeding cycle causing the amount of feeding fluid actually delivered to the
   subject in a given period to be less than the intended amount. The reduced amount of
   delivered feeding fluid may arise when the amount of time for completing the flushing
20 cycle is included in the total feeding time. As a result, the volume of flushing fluid
   delivered through the tubing 11 is included in the calculation of the total amount of
   feeding fluid delivered, which may be undesirable. Therefore, the actual amount of
   feeding fluid delivered to the subject may be different from the calculated or intended
   volume of feeding fluid delivered. Specifically, the actual amount of feeding fluid
25 delivered will be the intended amount of feeding fluid less the amount of feeding fluid
   that would have been delivered during the time flushing fluid is being delivered.
   [0037] Accordingly, the controller 77 may comprise a timer 83 and a memory area 84
   including a flush time compensator 85. In the illustrated embodiment, the flush time
   compensator 85 may include flush time compensation instructions 86 and flush time
30 compensation functions 87. The timer 83 may be initiated in a suitable manner when a
   feeding cycle is initiated or performed for delivering feeding fluid from bag 12 through
   the tubing 11 and to the subject. The flush time compensator 85 may use this
   information along with additional parameters of the feeding and flush cycles to
   compensate for the volume of feeding fluid that is not delivered during the time the
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               - 16
   pump 1 is operated in a flush setting where the flushing fluid from bag 13 and not the
   feeding fluid is being delivered through the tubing 11.
   [0038] The flush time compensator 85 can operate to adjust the flow rate for delivering
   the feeding fluid through the tubing 11 to account for the reduced or lost volume during
 5 the time the pump 1 operates in the flush setting, e.g., flushing configuration. This
   adjustment factor may be dependent on a selected or preprogrammed flow rate for the
   feeding fluid, and a volume, flow rate and flushing interval for the flushing fluid. More
   specifically, the controller 77 may employ the following function to determine an
   adjusted or compensated flow rate:
10 Xn = X/(1-((Y/R)/Z))
   X is the selected flow rate for the feeding fluid. Y is a volume of the flushing fluid
   delivered through the pump set. R is a rate of flow for the flushing fluid. Z is a time
   interval for delivering the flushing fluid (e.g., every two hours). Xn is an adjusted or
   compensated flow rate for the feeding fluid. It will be appreciated that the relationship
15 of Y/R reduces to a time factor indicating the time for the flushing cycle. The function
   can be stored in the controller 77 so that when the factors are input into the pump 1 by
   the caregiver (or included in a preprogrammed feed setting), the microprocessor 79
   can calculate the compensated flow rate Xn. The flush time compensator 85 provides
   computer-executable instructions 86 for use in calculating X/(1-((Y/R)/Z)).
20 [0039] For example, for a selected feeding fluid flow rate of 150 mL/hr, and a flush
   setting of 200 mL of flushing fluid every two hours with a flush rate of about 2000
   mL/hr, flushing would interrupt the feeding for a total of 200ml/2000ml/hr or 0.1 hours
   (6 min.). Thus, 6 minutes of feeding fluid delivery time would be missed over each two
   hour flushing interval. This would total 15 mL of feeding fluid that is not delivered to the
25 subject each flush interval. To compensate for the lost feeding fluid, the flow rate
   compensation algorithm can calculate the compensated flow rate Xn for delivering the
   feeding fluid between flush intervals to achieve an average of the selected flow rate of
   150 mL/hr. Thus, the compensated flow rate Xn = 150/(1 -((200/2000)/2)) = 157 mL/hr
   (rounded down to nearest mL/hr). Therefore, over the two hour flush interval, the flow
30 rate for delivering the feeding fluid for the 1.9 hours (114 min) of feed delivery time
   would be 157 mL/hr resulting in 300 mL of feeding fluid delivered. Without the flow rate
   adjustment only 285 mL of feeding fluid would be delivered over the two hour flush
   interval.
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                              - 17
   [0040] In the above example, the flush cycle was assumed to occur within the initial
   two hour feeding time. It will be understood that if the flush cycle occurs after the initial
   two hour feeding time, the first two hours of feeding will occur at the selected rate of
   150 mL/hr. However, a two hour flush interval may then result in the flush cycle
 5 occurring at the start of the second two hour feeding cycle. In this instance, the feed
   rate during the 1.9 hours (114 min.) after the flush cycle in the second two hour feeding
   cycle will increase to 157 mL/hr to account for the 6 minutes of flush time at the start of
   the second two hour feeding cycle. Subsequent feeding/flush cycles (configuration
   periods) would operate similarly.
10 [0041] Referring now to FIGS. 4 and 5, the flush time compensation instructions 86 of
   the flush time compensator 85 used to account for flush cycle time are shown. The
   flush time compensation instructions 86 are machine readable instructions on any
   suitable medium, broadly identified as the memory area 84. These instructions can be
   executed by the microprocessor 79. After the selected flow rate X, flushing volume Y,
15 flush rate R and flush interval Z are selected at block 89 (the flush parameters may
   also be preprogrammed in the feed setting), the flush time compensation instructions
   86 first determines at decision block 91 if a flush time (Y/R) will result in a loss of a
   volume of the feeding fluid that is greater than or equal to an acceptable threshold
   value of the intended feeding fluid volume to be delivered during the flush interval. If
20 the loss of feeding fluid volume is less than an acceptable threshold value, e.g., a
   threshold percentage, at 93 the selected flow rate X is used for the duration of the
   feeding cycle. In one embodiment the threshold percentage may be about 5% of the
   total intended feeding fluid volume. If the loss of feeding fluid volume is greater than or
   equal to the threshold percentage, at 95 the microprocessor 79 may display a
25 notification on the display screen 21 or provide an alarm indication via LEDs 25 that
   the volume of feeding fluid may be less than the intended volume due to the
   programmed or selected flush cycle. At 99, the microprocessor 79 may prompt the
   user to use the flush time compensation. At 100, the microprocessor 79 may ask the
   user to decide whether to use the flush time compensation. If the user selects NO, at
30 101 the selected flow rate X may be used for the duration of the feeding cycle. If the
   user selects YES, at 103 the flow rate compensation function 87 may be used to
   calculate the compensated or adjusted flow rate X. The compensated flow rate can be
   used for at least a portion of the feeding cycle to ensure the intended volume of
   feeding fluid is delivered to the subject. The compensated flow rate X, may be
35 incorporated before or after the initiation of an initial flush cycle. Further, the
                                                                       9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               - 18
   microprocessor 79 may automatically (i.e., without requiring user input ) initiate the flow
   rate compensation function 87 if the loss of feeding fluid is determined to be greater
   than or equal to the threshold percentage.
   [0042] Further variants can involve determining an intended or desired volume of the
 5 nutritional fluid, determining a minimum acceptable delivery volume as a product of the
   calculated delivery volume and a tolerance factor, and determining a modified fluid
   volume as result of time involved in the flushing configuration, which is based on the
   flush volume and the flush rate. For example, a desired fluid volume of 200 mL of
   nutritional fluid can be determined based on a user selected flow rate. If, for example,
io the minimum acceptable delivery volume is predefined to be within an acceptable
   tolerance, such as within 75% of the desired fluid volume, the minimum acceptable
   delivery volume is calculated to be 150 mL = (0.75)*(200 mL). If the processor
   determines that the modified fluid volume is greater than the minimum acceptable
   tolerance, then the processor regulates the pump at the selected feeding configuration.
15 If the processor determines that the modified fluid volume is less than or equal to the
   minimum acceptable tolerance, then the processor regulates the pump at the
   compensated feeding configuration. Depending on one or more considerations, such
   as, but not limited to, the type of nutritional fluid, the subject or patient nutritional needs
   and limits, the acceptable tolerance can be in a range of from about 0.75 to about 0.99,
20 or any value in a range of from 75% to 90%. For example, a critical patient may have a
   narrow nutritional tolerance requirement with an acceptable tolerance of 0.95 (or 95%)
   or greater.
   [0043] At any time during the feeding cycle, flush parameters may be manually input by
   the user. In this instance, the microprocessor 79 will run the compensation instructions
25 86 as discussed above to determine whether a compensated flow rate is to be used. It
   will be understood that the period of the feeding cycle prior to the manual selection of
   the flush parameter would be operated under the selected feeding flow rate X, and a
   period of the feeding cycle after selection of the flush parameters may be operated
   under the compensated flow rate X. Moreover, the controller 77 may operate in
30 instances where the first flush cycle does not occur for an interval after onset of
   feeding so that during the time up to the first flush cycle, the pump 1 is operated at the
   selected flow rate X and then after the first flush cycle is operated at the compensated
   flow rate X.
                                                                       9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                             -  19
   [0044] Thus it may be seen that the various objects and features are achieved by the
   various embodiments disclosed herein. The pump controller 77 has the flush time
   compensator 85 that allows the microprocessor 79 to compensate for the volume of
   feeding fluid that is not delivered during the time the pump 1 is operated in the flush
 5 setting where the flushing fluid and not the feeding fluid is being delivered through the
   tubing 11. Therefore, the subject can receive more accurate volume amounts of
   feeding fluid for a given feeding cycle.
   [0045] Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer-executable
   instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other
10 devices. The computer-executable instructions may be organized into one or more
   computer-executable components or modules including, but not limited to, routines,
   programs, objects, components, and data structures that perform particular tasks or
   implement particular abstract data types. Aspects may be implemented with any
   number and organization of such components or modules. For example, various
15 features or aspects are not limited to the specific computer-executable instructions or
   the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein.
   Other embodiments may include different computer-executable instructions or
   components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.
   [0046] Further, the order of execution or performance of the operations in any of the
20 embodiments illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise
   specified. That is, the operations may be performed in any order, unless otherwise
   specified, and embodiments may include additional or fewer operations than those
   disclosed herein. For example, it is contemplated that executing or performing a
   particular operation before, contemporaneously with, or after another operation is
25 within the scope of one or more aspects.
   [0047] In operation, microprocessor 79 of the controller 77 executes computer
   executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures to implement one or
   more aspects disclosed herein. Any of the various aspects may also be practiced in
   distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing
30 devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing
   environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer
   storage media including memory storage devices.
                                                                    9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                              - 20
   [0048] The preceding description is exemplarily directed to an enteral feeding system;
   however, one or more of the various aspects disclosed herein may be implemented in
   other pumping systems. Further, one or more of the various aspects may be
   implemented by retrofitting commercially available pumping apparatus including, for
 5 example, any one of the KANGAROO         TM ePump enteral feeding pump and the
   KANGAROO        TM Joey enteral feeding pump, available from Covidien LP, Mansfield,
   Massachusetts. For example, the controller of any of the aforementioned enteral
   feeding pumps can be replaced or modified to include an algorithm with processor
   executable instructions that perform any one of more of the features disclosed herein.
10 [0049] When introducing elements, the articles "a", "an", "the" and "said" are intended
   to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms "comprising",
   "including" and "having" are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be
   additional elements other than the listed elements. Moreover, the use of "up", "down",
   "top" and "bottom" and variations of these terms is made for convenience, but does not
15 require any particular orientation of the components.
   [0050] As various changes could be made in the above without departing from the
   scope, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the
   accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.
                                                                   9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                              - 21
   CLAIMS:
   1.        A pumping apparatus for use with a pump set to deliver nutritional liquid
 5 through the pump set to a subject, the pumping apparatus comprising:
             a pumping device capable of acting on the pump set to produce a fluid flow
   within the pump set; and
             a controller in communication with the pumping device for controlling operation
   of the pumping device in a feeding configuration for producing flow of a first fluid
io comprising nutritional liquid in the pump set and in a flushing configuration for
   producing flow of a second fluid different from the first fluid in the pump set, the
   controller including a processor and a memory, the controller being adapted to store in
   the memory a selected flow rate and a desired fluid volume of the first fluid and at least
   one of a flush rate and flush volume of the second fluid, the controller configured to
15 execute in the processor a flush time compensator for determining a compensated
   feeding configuration of the first fluid comprising a compensated flow rate of the first
   fluid to achieve the desired fluid volume based on an amount of time the controller will
   operate the pump device in the flushing configuration and the desired fluid volume of
   the first fluid, the compensated flow rate being different from the selected flow rate.
20
   2.        The pumping apparatus set forth claim 1, wherein the flush time compensator
   calculates the compensated flow rate based on the equation: X, = X/(1-((Y/R)/Z)),
   where X is the selected flow rate, Y is a volume of the second fluid to be delivered
   through the pump set in the flushing configuration, R is a rate of flow for the second
25 fluid in the flushing configuration, Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing
   configuration, and X, is the compensated flow rate.
   3.        The pumping apparatus set forth in any one of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
   controller is programmed to execute the flush time compensator if the controller
30 determines that the duration of the flushing configuration will result in a volume of the
   first fluid not being delivered to the subject that is equal to or greater than an
   acceptable threshold value of the desired fluid volume.
   4.        The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 5, wherein the controller executes the
35 flush time compensator if the volume of first fluid not delivered to the subject is
   determined to be at least 5% of the desired fluid volume.
                                                                         9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                               - 22
   5.      The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 3, wherein the controller is configured
   to output a notification perceptible to a user recommending use of the compensated
   feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid not delivered is equal to or greater than
   the acceptable threshold value.
 5
   6.      The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 3, wherein the controller automatically
   uses the compensated feeding configuration if the volume of first fluid not delivered is
   equal to or greater than the acceptable threshold value.
1o 7.      The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 6, wherein the compensated feeding
   configuration comprises a compensated flow rate, and wherein the controller is
   configured to operate the pumping device in a predetermined number of feeding
   configuration periods to deliver the desired volume of the first fluid, the controller
   automatically operates the pumping device in a first feeding configuration period at the
15 selected flow rate of the first fluid and operates the pumping device in a second
   feeding configuration period at the compensated flow rate of the first fluid.
   8.      The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 7, wherein the second feeding
   configuration period is shorter than the first feeding configuration period by an amount
20 of time the controller operates the pumping device in the flushing configuration.
   9.      The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 8, wherein the flush time compensator
   calculates the compensated flow rate based on a volume of the second fluid delivered
   through the pump set, a flow rate of the second fluid and a time interval until initiation
25 of the next flushing configuration.
   10.     The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the controller is configured
   to receive an input for initiating the flushing configuration of the pumping device, the
   controller configured to execute the flush time compensator and alter operation of the
30 pumping device in the feeding configuration after receiving the input.
   11.     A method of delivering fluid using a pumping apparatus that acts on a pump set
   attached to the pumping apparatus to produce fluid flow through the pump set for
   delivery of fluid to a subject, the method comprising:
35         receiving input of a selected flow rate for delivering a volume of a first fluid
   comprising nutritional liquid through the pump set to the subject;
           determining using computer readable instructions a duration of time for flushing
                                                                      9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                                  - 23
    the first fluid out of the pump set with a second fluid different from the first fluid;
             calculating using computer executable instructions a compensated flow rate for
    delivering the first fluid through the pump set based on the duration of time for flushing
    the first fluid out of the pump set; and
  5          operating the pumping apparatus to deliver the first fluid through the pump set
    at the compensated flow rate.
    12.      The method set forth in claim 11, further comprising operating the pumping
    apparatus to deliver the first fluid through the pump set at the selected flow rate.
10
    13.      A pumping apparatus for use with a pump set to deliver fluid, the pumping
    apparatus comprising:
             a pump motor operatively connectable to the pump set to produce fluid flow
    therethrough; and
15           a controller configured to regulate operation of the pump motor in a selected
    feeding configuration that produces flow of a first fluid comprising nutritional liquid
    through the pump set at a selected flow rate, regulate operation of the pump motor in a
    compensated feeding configuration that produces flow of a first fluid through the pump
    set at a compensated flow rate, and regulate operation of the pump motor in a flushing
20  configuration that produces flow of a second fluid through the pump set, wherein the
    compensated flow rate of the first fluid is based on the equation:
                                                         X
                                           Xn =
    wherein
25
    Xn is the compensated flow rate of the first fluid,
    X is the selected flow rate of the first fluid,
    Y is the flush volume of the second fluid,
    R is a flush rate of the second fluid, and
30  Z is a time interval until initiation of the flushing configuration.
                                                                         9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

                                             - 24
   14.     The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 13, wherein the controller comprises:
            a processor; and
            a memory structure having instructions stored thereon and executable by the
 5 processor that determine a desired fluid volume of the first fluid based on the selected
   flow rate, determine a minimum acceptable delivery volume of the first fluid based on a
   product of the desired fluid volume and a tolerance factor, and determine a modified
   fluid volume based on the flush volume and the flush rate,
           wherein the processor regulates operation of the pump motor in the selected
10 feeding configuration if the modified fluid volume is greater than the minimum
   acceptable delivery volume, and regulates operation of the pump motor in the
   compensated feeding configuration if the modified fluid volume is equal to or less than
   the minimum acceptable delivery volume.
15 15.     The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the flush volume of the
   second fluid delivered through the pump set is included in a calculation of a total
   amount of the first fluid delivered.
   16.     The pumping apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the second fluid is water.
20
25
30
35
                                                                    9808248_1 (GHMatters) P107207.AU 19/12/17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
