                                               ABSTRACT
  A vaccine for the treatment or prevention of infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB)
  in a mammal comprising an antigen and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the
  antigen comprises a non-naturally occurring MTB immunity enhancing antigen (lEA),
5 wherein the lEA is an antigenically altered form of a naturally occurring MTB antigen,
  wherein the MTB antigen has been altered by chemical treatment or has been derived from
  sonicated MTB.

                         ENHANCING IMMUNITY TO TUBERCULOSIS
   Reference to Related Applications
            This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/872,391
   entitled "EnhancingImmunity to Tuberculosis" filed August 30, 2013, the entirety of which is
 5 hereby incorporated by reference.
   Sequence Listing
            The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted
   electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said
   ASCII copy, created on August 28, 2014, is named 3022.023.PCTSL.txt and is 3,682 bytes in
10 size.
   Field
            The present disclosure is directed to compositions and methods for treating a disease or
   disorder and/or enhancing the immune system of a patient and, in particular, vaccines of non
   naturally occurring substances and vaccination methods for treating and/or enhancing the
15 immune system against infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
   Background
            Mycobacteriun tuberculosis (MTB) is a pathogenic bacterial species in the family
   Mycobacteriaceae and the causative agent of most cases of tuberculosis (TB). Another species
   of this genus is M. leprae, the causative agent of leprosy. MTB was first discovered in 1882
20 by Robert Koch, M. tuberculosis has an unusual, complex, lipid rich, cell wall which makes
   the cells impervious to Gram staining. Acid-fast detection techniques are used to make the
   diagnosis instead. The physiology of Al. tuberculosis is highly aerobic and requires significant
   levels of oxygen to remain viable. Primarily a pathogen of the mammalian respiratory system,
   MTB is generally inhaled and, in five to ten percent of individuals, will progress to an acute
25 pulmonary infection. The remaining individuals will either clear the infection completely or
   the infection may become latent. It is not clear how the immune system controls MTB, but
   cell mediated immunity is believed to play a critical role (Svenson et al., Human Vaccines,

   6-4:309-17, 2010). Common diagnostic methods for TB are the tuberculin skin test, acid-fast
   stain and chest radiographs.
            M. tuberculosisrequires oxygen to proliferate and does not retain typical
   bacteriological stains due to high lipid content of its cell wall. While mycobacteria do not fit
 5 the Gram-positive category from an empirical standpoint (i.e., they do not retain the crystal
   violet stain), they are classified as acid-fast Gram-positive bacteria due to their lack of an outer
   cell membrane.
            M. tuberculosis has over one hundred strain variations and divides every 15-20 hours,
   which is extremely slow compared to other types of bacteria that have division times measured
10 in minutes (Escherichiacoli can divide roughly every 20 minutes). The microorganism is a
   small bacillus that can withstand weak disinfectants and survive in a dry state for weeks. The
   cell wall of MTB contains multiple components such as peptidoglycan, mycolic acid and the
   glycolipid lipoarabinomannan. The role of these moieties in pathogenesis and immunity
   remain controversial. (Svenson et al., Human Vaccines, 6-4:309-17, 2010).
15          When in the lungs, M. tuberculosis is taken up by alveolar macrophages, but these
   macrophages are unable to digest the bacteria because the cell wall of the bacteria prevents the
   fusion of the phagosome with a lysosome. Specifically, M. tuberculosis blocks the bridging
   molecule, early endosomal autoantigen I (EEA1); however, this blockade does not prevent
   fusion of vesicles filled with nutrients. As a consequence, bacteria multiply unchecked within
20 the macrophage. The bacteria also carry the UreC gene, which prevents acidification of the
   phagosome, and also evade macrophage-killing by neutralizing reactive nitrogen
   intermediates.
            The BCG vaccine (Bacille de Calmette et Gu6rin) against tuberculosis is prepared from
   a strain of the attenuated, but live bovine tuberculosis bacillus, Mycobacterium bovis. This
25 strain lost its virulence to humans through in vitro subculturing in Middlebrook 7H9 media.
   As the bacteria adjust to subculturing conditions, including the chosen media, the organism
   adapts and in doing so, loses its natural growth characteristics for human blood.
   Consequently, the bacteria can no longer induce disease when introduced into a human host.
   However, the attenuated and virulent bacteria retain sufficient similarity to provide immunity
30 against infection of human tuberculosis. The effectiveness of the BCG vaccine has been
   highly varied, with an efficacy of from zero to eighty percent in preventing tuberculosis for
                                                      2

   duration of fifteen years, although protection seems to vary greatly according to geography
   and the lab in which the vaccine strain was grown. This variation, which appears to depend on
   geography, generates a great deal of controversy over use of the BCG vaccine yet has been
   observed in many different clinical trials. For example, trials conducted in the United
 5 Kingdom have consistently shown a protective effect of sixty to eighty percent, but those
   conducted in other areas have shown no or almost no protective effect. For whatever reason,
   these trials all show that efficacy decreases in those clinical trials conducted close to the
   equator. In addition, although widely used because of its protective effects against
   disseminated TB and TB meningitis in children, the BCG vaccine is largely ineffective against
10 adult pulmonary TB, the single most contagious form of TB.
           A 1994 systematic review found that the BCG reduces the risk of getting TB by about
   fifty percent. There are differences in effectiveness, depending on region due to factors such
   as genetic differences in the populations, changes in environment, exposure to other bacterial
   infections, and conditions in the lab where the vaccine is grown, including genetic differences
15 between the strains being cultured and the choice of growth medium.
           The duration of protection of BCG is not clearly known or understood. In those studies
   showing a protective effect, the data are inconsistent. The MRC study showed protection
   waned to 59% after 15 years and to zero after 20 years; however, a study looking at Native
   Americans immunized in the 1930s found evidence of protection even 60 years after
20 immunization, with only a slight waning in efficacy. Rigorous analysis of the results
   demonstrates that BCG has poor protection against adult pulmonary disease, but does provide
   good protection against disseminated disease and TB meningitis in children. Therefore there
   is a need for new vaccines and vaccine antigens that can provide solid and long-term
   immunity to MTB.
25         The role of antibodies in the development of immunity to MTB is controversial.
   Current data suggests that T cells, specifically CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, are critical for
   maximizing macrophage activity against MTB and promoting optimal control of infection
   (Slight et al, JCI 123(2):712, Feb. 2013). However, these same authors demonstrated that B
   cell deficient mice are not more susceptible to MTB infection than B cell intact mice
30 suggesting that humoral immunity is not critical. Phagocytosis of MTB can occur via surface
   opsonins, such as C3, or nonopsonized MTB surface mannose moieties. Fc gamma receptors,
                                                     3

   important for IgG facilitated phagocytosis, do not seem to play an important role in MTB
   immunity (Crevel et al., Clin Micro Rev. 15(2), April, 2002; Armstrong et al., J Exp Med.
   1975 Jul 1; 142(1):1-16). IgA has been considered for prevention and treatment of TB, since
   it is a mucosal antibody. A human IgA monoclonal antibody to the MTB heat shock protein
 5 HSPX (HSPX) given intra-nasally provided protection in a mouse model (Balu et al, J of
   Immun. 186:3113, 2011). Mice treated with IgA had less prominent MTB pneumonic
   infiltrates than untreated mice. While antibody prevention and therapy may be hopeful, the
   effective MTB antigen targets and the effective antibody class and subclasses have not been
   established (Acosta et al, Intech, 2013).
10          Cell wall components of MTB have been delineated and analyzed for many years.
   Lipoarabinomannan (LAM) has been shown to be a virulence factor and a monoclonal
   antibody to LAM has enhanced protection to MTB in mice (Teitelbaum, et al., Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. 95:15688-15693, 1998, Svenson et al., Human Vaccines, 6-4:309-17, 2010). The
   mechanism whereby the MAB enhanced protection was not determined and the MAB did not
15 decrease bacillary burden. It was postulated that the MAB possibly blocked the effects of
   LAM induced cytokines. The role of mycolic acid for vaccines and immune therapy is
   unknown. It has been used for diagnostic purposes, but has not been shown to have utility for
   vaccine or other immune therapy approaches. While MTB infected individuals may develop
   antibodies to mycolic acid, there is no evidence that antibodies in general, or specifically
20 mycolic acid antibodies, play a role in immunity to MTB.
            The reference to prior art in the background above is not and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia or in any other country.
   Summary of the Disclosure
25          Antibiotic resistance is becoming more and more of a problem for treating MTB
   infections. The BCG vaccine against TB does not provide protection from acquiring TB to a
   significant degree. Thus the applicant has recognized it would be beneficial to provide or
   improve products and approaches to prevent and treat MTB.
                                                     4

            The present disclosure overcomes the problems and disadvantages associated with current
   strategies and designs and provide new tools and methods for enhancing the immune system.
            According to one aspect of the disclosure there is provided a vaccine for the treatment or
   prevention of infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis(MTB) in a mammal comprising an antigen
 5 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the antigen comprises a non-naturally
   occurring MTB immunity enhancing antigen (lEA), wherein the IEA is an antigenically altered
   form of a naturally occurring MTB antigen, wherein the MTB antigen has been altered by
   chemical treatment or has been derived from sonicated MTB.
            According to another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method for treating or
10 preventing MTB infection comprising administering the vaccine as disclosed herein to a mammal.
            According to another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a non-naturally occurring
   antibody that is specifically reactive against an immunity enhancing antigen (lEA) of
   Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), wherein the IEA is an antigenically altered MTB antigen that
   has been altered by chemical treatment or has been derived from sonicated MTB.
15          According to yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a hybridoma that
   produces the monoclonal antibody as disclosed herein.
            According to yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method for treating or
   preventing an MTB infection in a mammal by administering non-naturally occurring antibodies as
   disclosed herein, that enhances phagocytic activity against MTB, wherein the phagocytic activity
20 is enhanced in comparison to natural antibodies generated against the whole organism.
            According to yet another aspect of the discloser there is provided a method for treating or
   preventing an MTB infection in a mammal by administering a cocktail comprising two or more
   monoclonal antibodies as disclosed herein.
            According to yet another aspect of the disclosure there is provided an antigen which
25 comprises a non-naturally occurring immunity enhancing epitope of MTB, wherein the immunity
   enhancing epitope is a form of a naturally occurring MTB epitope, that has been antigenically
   altered by chemical treatment or has been derived from sonicated MTB.
                                                       5

            One embodiment of the disclosure is directed to vaccines for the treatment or prevention of
   infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) in a mammal comprising one or more non
   naturally occurring antigens, which may be produced through recombinant techniques, preferably
   including a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Preferably the antigen comprises an MTB surface
 5 secreted or intracellular antigen. Preferably the antigen comprises one or more of a synthetic MTB
   peptide, synthetic MTB/influenza peptide composite, malaria, MTB surface antigen composite. A
   second approach utilizes non-natural moieties produced in alcohol-killed MTB, such as ethanol or
   gluteraldehyde-killed MTB that generate an immune response against the one or more vaccine
   targets such as mycolic acid. The alcohol for example denatures the proteins and disassociates the
10 lipid structures in the cell wall producing new and altered (non-natural) molecules. Preferably the
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises water, oil, fatty acid, carbohydrate, lipid, cellulose,
   or a combination thereof. Preferably peptides and antigen targets may be conjugated to proteins
   and other moieties and delivered with adjuvants such as alum, squaline oil in water emulsion
   amino acids, proteins, carbohydrates and/or other adjuvants.
15          Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods for treating or preventing
   MTB infection comprising administering the vaccine of the disclosure to a mammal. Preferably
   the vaccine is administered to a patient orally, intramuscularly, intravenously or subcutaneously
   and generates a humoral response in the mammal that comprises generation of antibodies
   specifically reactive against MTB moieties that impede host immunity or induce antibodies that
20 enhance host immunity.
            Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods for treating or preventing
   infection of Mvcobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) in a mammal comprising administering to the
   mammal polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies that are specifically reactive against MTB moieties,
   such as mycolic acid that stimulate cellular phagocytic activity and destruction of MTB by
25 phagocytes, enhances cytokine induced immunity to MTB or neutralizes toxic MTB substances,
   and/or cocktails of two or more monoclonal antibodies (MABs) that enhance immunity to MTB.
   Preferably, the anti-MTB antibodies are polyclonal antibodies or monoclonal antibodies and react
   against one or more MTB moieties.
            Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to monoclonal antibodies that are
30 specifically reactive against mycolic acid of MTB. Preferably the monoclonal antibody is an IgA,
   IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM, and may be derived from most any mammal such as, for example, rabbit,
   guinea pig, mouse, human, fully or partly humanized, chimeric or single chain of any of the
                                                       6

   above. The DNA encoding the antibodies may be utilized in any appropriate cell line to
   produce the encoded MABs. Another embodiment comprises hybridoma cultures that produce
   the monoclonal antibodies. Another embodiment of the disclosure comprises non-naturally
   occurring polyclonal antibodies that are specifically reactive against mycolic acid of MTB.
 5         Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods for treating or preventing
   MTB infection by administering a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody that is specifically
   reactive against mycolic acid of MTB.
           Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods for treating or preventing
   MTB infection by administering to a patient an effective amount of BCG vaccine and further
10 enhancing the effectiveness and/or the length of protection by also administering an effective
   amount of the vaccine of the disclosure that induces Immoral immunity and provides enhanced
   phagocytic function. Enhanced phagocytic function by vaccine or antibody is defined as
   stimulated cellular phagocytic activity and enhanced destruction of the MTB bacillus inside
   the phagocyte.
15         Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods of identifying one or
   more antibodies that activate phagocytizing cells, comprising: providing a microbe; generating
   antibodies that are specifically responsive to the microbe: incubating the generated antibodies
   with the phagocytizing cells; determining an activity of the phagocytizing cells after
   incubation with the antibodies; and selecting the one or more antibodies that increase the
20 activity of the phagocytizing cells as compared to a control. Preferably the microbe is live or
   killed MTB and optionally, the microbe can be treated with one or more chemical and/or
   physical agents. Preferably the chemical agent is ethanol or gluteraldehyde. Also preferably,
   the antibodies generated from a mouse and preferably monoclonal antibodies. Phagocytizing
   cells include, but are not limited to macrophages, neutrophils, monocytes, mast cells, white
25 blood cells, dendritic cells, phagocytic cell lines, HL-60 cells, U-937 cells, PMA treated cells,
   PMA treated U-937 cells, and combinations thereof. The activity of the cells can be
   determined, for example, by visual inspection, by antigen uptake, or fluorescent based
   microscopy assay of the phagocytizing cells. Preferably the phagocytizing cells show activity
   only on incubation with the one or more selected antibodies. Suitable controls include, for
30 example, the phagocytic activity of the cells that have not been treated with any antibodies, the
   phagocytic activity of the cells after incubation with antibodies provided against untreated
                                                     7

   antigen, or the phagocytic activity of the cells after treatment with an agent that does not
   generate phagocytic activity. Preferably the one or more antibodies selected treat or prevent
   microbe infection of a mammal. Also preferable, the one or more antibodies selected are
   mouse antibodies that have been humanized for the prevention and/or treatment of a disease or
 5 disorder.
            Other embodiments and advantages of the disclosure are set forth in part in the
   description, which follows, and in part, may be obvious from this description, or may be
   learned from the practice of the disclosure.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
10 Figure 1        Antisera titers from M3 1319-1324 (Immunized with MTB non-natural surface
   antigens on the altered surface of EtOH-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 2        Antisera titers from M3 1325-1330 (Immunized with MTB non-natural surface
   antigens on the surface of Glut-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 3        Antisera titers from M3 1331-1336 (Immunized with MTB non-natural
15 antigens from Son. Glut-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 4        Antisera titers from M3 1337-1342 (Immunized with MTB non-natural
   antigens from Son. Glut-k TB + adjuvant) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 5        High level binding of isolated TB Pep01 (SEQ ID NO 1) at 1 pg/ml and 10
   pg/ml to MS 1124 sera at 42 days, 112 days and prefusion.
20 Figure 6        Hybridoma productivity from MS 1143 and 1147 fusion as measured on whole
   MTB (ethanol killed) and mycolic acid.
   Figure 7        Binding profiles of purified M1438 FEI 111 B3 (alpha-TB Pep 02) to various
   antigens (SEQ ID NO. 7).
   Detailed Description
25          Approximately one third of the world population is infected with Mycobacterium
   tuberculosis (MTB). Current treatment includes a long course of antibiotics and often requires
   quarantining of the patient. Resistance is common and an ever increasing problem, as is the
   ability to maintain the quarantine of infected patients. Present vaccines include BCG which is
   prepared from a strain of attenuated (virulence-reduced) live bovine tuberculosis bacillus,
30 Mycobacterium bovis, and a live non-MTB organisms. BCG carries substantial associated
                                                     8

   risks, especially in immune compromised individuals, and has proved to be only modestly
   effective and for limited periods. It is generally believed that a humoral response to infection
   by MTB is ineffective and optimal control of infection must involve activation of T cells and
   macrophages.
 5          It has been surprisingly discovered that certain regions of MTB when chemically or
   physically altered from their natural state generate an enhanced immune response against
   MTB in mammals. Preferred alterations are created when the MTB is treated with chemicals
   such as, for example, ethanol, gluteraldehyde or another chemical that inactivates or kills the
   organisms. In contrast, antigens of or antibodies generated against these regions without
10 alteration (e.g. BCG vaccine) do not produce a protective response even in adults with a robust
   immune system. These regions or epitopes that are created after treatment are referred to as
   immunity enhancing antigens (IEAs). These IEAs are recognized by the immune system of
   the host when administered to treat or prevent infection, by generating a cellular and/or
   humoral immune response to the infection. Without limiting the disclosure, the non-naturally
15 occurring IEAs of the disclosure are believed to be recognized by the mammalian immune
   system due to physical changes created to the chemical structure of the antigen and/or by
   removal of one or more chemical moieties that otherwise block recognition of the epitope of
   the whole non-altered MTB or even of a degradation product of the MTB organism. On the
   isolation of an IEA, the physical or chemical alteration of one or more new epitopes are
20 revealed to the host immune system generating a protective response against infection that is
   not otherwise available from a vaccine using whole or partial untreated organisms. Preferably,
   the IEAs of the disclosure are created from chemically killed organisms, such as ethanol
   killed, or degradation products of ethanol-killed organisms. IEAs of MTB include, but are not
   limited to epitopic regions of the surface of MTB, and various selected regions and sequences
25 of the MTB components including, but not limited to MTB heat shock protein, peptidoglycan,
   mycolic acid and lipoarabinomannan (LAM). Preferred amino acid and nucleic acid sequences
   of the disclosure contain or encode one or more epitopes of an IEA for MTB, and/or additional
   epitopes specific for other infections such as, for example, a viral infection (e.g. influenza).
   Preferred IEAs of the disclosure include altered portions of peptidoglycan, mycolic acid and
30 LAM, which are useful as peptide vaccines and/or peptide adjuvants. Nucleic acid sequences
   of the disclosure are preferably recombinantly produced and/or synthetically manufactured.
                                                     9

   Also preferred are nucleic acid aptamers and peptide aptamers and other molecules that mimic
   the structure and/or function of the non-natural antigens or antibodies of the disclosure. Also
   preferred are peptide and/or nucleic acid sequences that contain or encode one or more
   epitopes of an lEA antigen of another pathogen, such as, for example, a viral (DNA or RNA),
 5 bacterial, fungal or parasitic pathogen that is the causative agent of a disease (e.g., influenza,
   HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, lower respiratory infections, measles, tetanus, cholera, malaria, viral
   and/or bacterial meningitis, infections of the digestive tract, pertussis, syphilis). Combinations
   of epitopes from both MTB and other pathogens include, for example, peptide conjugates of
   MTB and influenza or another viral epitope, peptide conjugates of MTB with Diphtheria toxin
10 (e.g. CRM), Clostridiumtetani toxin andpeptides and proteins, or another bacterial epitope,
   or peptide conjugates of MTB with Plasmodiumfalciparum or another parasitic epitope.
   Preferably, the peptide sequences of the disclosure (e.g. see Table 3, which includes peptide
   composites of MTB, peptide composites of influenza, and combined MTB-influenza
   composite peptides) are synthetic peptide vaccines that generate and/or enhance an immune
15 response to a pathogenic infection such as, for example, MTB, influenza virus, or the
   etiological agents of cholera, malaria, leprosy, AIDS, and/or another infectious disease, and
   prevent and/or treat the disease and infection. Also preferably, the immune response
   generated is protective against the infection that shields individuals from infection outside of
   the geographical or time period of the limits of protection, for example, associated with the
20 various BCG vaccines presently in use. Preferably, vaccines of the disclosure provide
   protection to the patient for greater than about one year, more preferably greater than about
   two years, more preferably greater than about three years, more preferably greater than about
   five years, more preferably greater than about seven years, more preferably greater than about
   ten years, and more preferably greater than about fifteen or twenty years.
25         Preferably the immune response generated upon the administration of a vaccine of the
   disclosure is protective against TB or another infection and enhance and/or prime the immune
   system of the patient to be immunologically responsive to an infection such as by promoting
   recognition of the pathogen, a greater and/or more rapid immunological response to an
   infection, phagocytosis of the pathogen or killing of pathogen-infected cells, thereby
30 promoting overall immune clearance of the infection. Preferably, a vaccination of an infected
   mammal with an lEA of the disclosure promotes the activation of a humoral and/ or cellular
                                                     10

   response of the mammalian immune system For example, administering an lEA of the
   disclosure to an infected mammal promotes the sensing of the infection and then clears the
   infection from the mammalian system by inducing or increasing phagocytic activity.
   Preferably this sensing and clearance activity is effective to clear the body of both active
 5 organisms and latent or dormant organisms and thereby prevent a later resurgence of the
   infection.
           One embodiment of the disclosure is directed to vaccines that, upon administration to a
   patient, provide for protection against infection of a pathogen. Vaccines containing IEAs are
   effective to stimulate a cellular and/or humoral response in a patient. Alternatively the
10 vaccine may stimulate a humoral response that will stimulate an enhanced cellular or
   phagocytic cell response to any invading pathogen such as MTB. Preferably the vaccines of
   the disclosure contain an MTB EIA such as, for example, one or more epitopes of altered
   peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan (LAM), or a combination of one or more of
   these altered epitopes. Preferred MTB epitopes include MTB sequences and composites of
15 MTB sequences plus other epitope sequence, such as those listed in Table 3.
           Vaccines of the disclosure may contain one or multiple sequences and/or portions that
   are derived from the same or from different source materials or organisms. Source materials
   include, for example, proteins, peptides, toxins, cell wall components, membrane components,
   polymers, carbohydrates, nucleic acids including DNA and RNA, lipids, fatty acids, and
20 combinations thereof. Vaccines with multiple portions derived from different sources are
   referred to herein as conjugate vaccines and may include portions derived from, for example,
   proteins and lipids, peptides and fatty acids, and lipids and nucleic acids. Vaccine conjugates
   may contain portions derived from distinct organisms, such as, for example, any combination
   of bacteria (e.g. MTB), virus (preferably influenza, HIV, RSV), fungal or mold, and parasite
25 (e.g. malaria). These conjugates may be composed of, for example, a portion of mycolic acid
   of MTB coupled to serum albumin (e.g. bovine serum albumin or BSA). Exemplary
   conjugate vaccines include, but are not limited to conjugates of a surface protein of MTB,
   peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, or LAM with a protein such as tetanus toxin or diphtheria toxin.
           Also preferred are vaccines of the disclosure that include one or more of a
30 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient, adjuvant and/or other medicinal or
   pharmaceutical agent or preparation known to those skilled in the art. Preferred
                                                    11

   pharmaceutically carriers include one or more of water, fatty acids, lipids, polymers,
   carbohydrates, gelatin, solvents, saccharides, buffers, stabilizing agents, surfactants, wetting
   agents, lubricating agents, emulsifiers, suspending agents, preservatives, antioxidants,
   opaquing agents, glidants, processing aids, colorants, sweeteners, perfuming agents, flavoring
 5 agents or an immunological inert substance, and especially preferred are carriers designated as
   generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or another
   appropriate authority.
            Although the peptides of the disclosure may be complete vaccines against an infection
   in and of themselves, it has also been discovered that the peptide vaccines of the disclosure
10 enhance the immune response when administered in conjunction with other vaccines against
   the same or a similar infection such as, for example, BCG against a TB infection. As a
   secondary vaccine or adjunctive treatment in conjunction with an existing primary vaccine
   treatment, secondary vaccines (which may be antibodies or antigens) of the disclosure provide
   a two punch defense against infection which is surprisingly effective to prevent or extend the
15 period of protection available from the conventional primary vaccine. The primary vaccine
   (i.e., conventional vaccine) and secondary vaccines (vaccines of the disclosure) may be
   administered about simultaneously, or in staggered fashion in an order determined empirically
   or by one skilled in the art. Preferably the peptide vaccine is administered in advance of an
   attenuated or killed whole cell vaccine, but may also be administered after or simultaneously
20 (e.g., collectively as a single vaccination or as separate vaccination compositions). Preferably
   the peptide vaccine is administered from between about two to about thirty days in advance or
   after administration of the whole cell vaccine, and more preferably from between about four to
   about fourteen days in advance or after. Without being limited as to theory, it is currently
   believed that the first vaccine primes the immune system of the subject and the second vaccine
25 provides the boost to the immune system creating a protective immunological response in the
   patient.
            Another embodiment of the disclosure comprises one or more antibodies that binds to
   one or more specific targets or pathogens, preferably one or more MTB epitopes that are IEAs
   of the disclosure optionally including one or more previously known epitopes. These
30 antibodies, which may be either monoclonal or polyclonal, have surprisingly demonstrated
   antigen binding in ELISA assays to non-natural target MTB antigens, such as ethanol altered
                                                     12

   MTB, and demonstrate enhanced immune response to MTB and promote or enhance
   phagocytic clearance of MTB. Antibodies of the current disclosure that stimulate phagocytic
   function promote phagocyte activity to identify MTB, engulf the organism and then destroy
   the MTB bacilli. Antibodies enhance treatment, for example, by promoting phagocytosis of
 5 bacteria, stimulating T cell recognition of the foreign antigen (e.g. memory T cells) followed
   by cell-killing of infected cells, and overall immune system clearance of the infection.
   Antibodies of the disclosure have been developed to a number of antigen targets, including but
   not limited to mycolic acid of the surface of MTB, heat-shock proteins and other MTB
   antigens (e.g., 16 KD MTB heat-shock protein of SEQ ID NO 1).
10         Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to multiple antibodies of the
   disclosure (polyclonal, monoclonal or fractions such as Fab fragments, single chains, etc.) that
   are combined or combined with conventional antibodies (polyclonal, monoclonal or fractions
   such as Fab fragments, single chains, etc.) into an antibody cocktail for the treatment and/or
   prevention of an infection. Combinations can include two, three, four, five or many more
15 different antibody combination with each directed to a different antigen including IEAs of the
   disclosure.
           Antibodies to one or more different IEAs of the disclosure may be monoclonal or
   polyclonal and may be derived from any mammal such as, for example, mouse, rabbit, pig,
   guinea pig, rat and preferably human. Polyclonal antibodies may be collected from the serum
20 of infected or carrier mammals (e.g., typically human, although equine, bovine, porcine, ovine
   or caprine may also be utilized) and preserved for subsequent administration to patients with
   existing infections. Administration of antibodies for treatment against infection, whether
   polyclonal or monoclonal, may be through a variety of available mechanisms including, but
   not limited to inhalation, ingestion, and/or subcutaneous (SQ), intravenous (IV),
25 intraperitoneal (ID), and/or intramuscular (IM) injection, and may be administered at regular
   or irregular intervals, or as a bolus dose.
           Monoclonal antibodies to one or more IEAs of the disclosure may be of one or more of
   the classes IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, or IgM, containing alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma or mu heavy
   chains and kappa or lambda light chains, or any combination heavy and light chains including
30 effective fractions thereof, such as, for example, single-chain antibodies, isolated variable
   regions, isolated Fab or Fc fragments, isolated complement determining regions (CDRs), and
                                                    13

   isolated antibody monomers. Monoclonal antibodies to IEAs may be created or derived from
   human or non-human cells and, if non-human cells, they may be chimeric MABs or
   humanized. Non-human antibodies are preferably humanized by modifying the amino acid
   sequence of the heavy and/or light chains of peptides to be similar to human variants, or
 5 genetic manipulation or recombination of the non-coding structures from non-human to
   human origins. The disclosure further comprises recombinant plasmids and nucleic acid
   constructions used in creating a recombinant vector and a recombinant expression vector the
   expresses a peptide vaccine of the disclosure. The disclosure further comprises hybridoma
   cell lines created from the fusion of antibody producing cells with a human or other cell lines
10 for the generation of monoclonal antibodies of the disclosure.
            Antibodies to IEAs and other substances when recognized by the immune system,
   promote phagocytosis and clearing of an infection of that microorganism and/or the
   development of immunity to infection. Pretreatment or simultaneous treatment of MTB with
   certain antibiotics exposes immune enhancing antigens of the microorganism to cell killing
15 mechanisms of the immune system including, but not limited to phagocytosis, apoptosis,
   macrophage and natural-killer cell activation, cytokine and T-cell mediated cell killing, and
   complement-initiated cell lysis.
            Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods for administering to a
   patient a composition containing antibodies of the disclosure and, preferably, with a
20 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Antibodies to IEAs of a microorganism, either or both as
   polyclonal antibodies or monoclonal antibodies or cocktails of one or more antibodies, may be
   administered individually and/or in combinations with each other and/or other vaccines and/or
   treatments or preventions of the microorganism infection. Antibodies to immune enhancing
   antigens may be administered prophylactically prior to possible infection, or to treat an active
25 or suspected MTB infection.
            Preferably the vaccine of immune enhancing antigens and/or antibodies to immune
   enhancing antigens of the disclosure is administered in conjunction with conventional
   vaccines against MTB (e.g., BCG) or as a Prime Boost with another vaccine such as, for
   example BCG. This combined vaccine of the disclosure provides an enhancement of the
30 immune response generated and/or extends the effectiveness and/or length of period of
   immunity. Enhancement is preferably an increase in the immune response to MTB infection
                                                   14

   such as an increase in the cellular or humoral response generated by the host's immune
   system. An effective amount of vaccine, adjuvant and enhancing antigen of the disclosure is
   that amount which generates an infection clearing immune response or stimulates phagocytic
   activity. Upon administration of the combined vaccine, an increase of the cellular response
 5 may include the generation of targeted phagocytes, targeted and primed natural killer cells,
   and/or memory T cells that are capable of maintaining and/or promoting an effective response
   to infection for longer periods of time than the conventional vaccine would provide alone. An
   increase in the humoral response may include the generation of a more diverse variety of
   antibodies including, but not limited to different IgG isotypes or antibodies to more than one
10 microbe or more than one MTB molecule that are capable of providing an effective response
   to prevent infection by MTB and/or another microbe as compared to the humoral response that
   would be generated from just a conventional MTB vaccine. Administration preferably
   comprises combining BCG vaccine and a vaccine antigen that generates a humoral response in
   the patient to a surface antigen of MTB. Preferably the response is to mycolic acid,
15 peptidoglycan, lipoarabinomannan and/or another component of the microorganism,
   preferably one that presents or is otherwise exposed on the surface of MTB or secreted during
   infection. Some substances produced by MTB may be toxic to the host immune system or
   impede immune function. Antibodies that clear or neutralize these toxic substances (such as
   released or free mycolic acid components) can further act to enhance and improve host
20 immunity.
           Exposure of these MTB antigens to the antibodies of the disclosure or of the immune
   system of the patient may be augmented or substantially increased by prior or about
   simultaneous treatment with individual or combinations of antibiotics, cytokines and other
   bactericidal and/or bacteriostatic substances (e.g., substances that inhibit protein or nucleic
25 acid synthesis, substances that injury membrane or other microorganism structures, substances
   that inhibit synthesis of essential metabolites of the microorganism), and preferably one or
   more antibiotic or substance that attacks the cell wall structure or synthesis of the cell wall of
   the microorganism. Preferably, the antibiotics do not cause the release of cell surface
   antigens, but expose antigens that are not otherwise exposed or easily accessible to the
30 immune system. Effective amounts of antibiotics are expected to be less than the manufacture
   recommended amount or higher dose, but for short periods of time (e.g. about one hour, about
                                                    15

   4 hours, about 6 hours, less than one or two day). Examples of such antibiotics include, but
   are not limited to one or more of the chemical forms, derivatives and analogs of penicillin,
   amoxicillin, augmentin, polymyxin B, cycloserine, autolysin, bacitracin, cephalosporin,
   vancomycin, and beta lactam. Antibiotics work synergistically with the immune enhancing
 5 antigens of the disclosure to provide an efficient and effective preventative or treatment of an
   infection. The antibiotics are not needed in bacteriostatic or bactericidal quantities, which is
   not only advantageous with regard to expense, availability and disposal, these lower dosages
   do not necessarily encourage development of resistance to the same degree, together a
   tremendous benefit of the disclosure. Preferably, the antibiotic is administered initially to
10 damage and alter the pathogen cell wall and epitopes (for example to produce a non-natural
   surface and expose cell wall components such as mycolic acid non-natural epitopes and other
   moieties that can be recognized by the patient's immune system), followed a short time later
   with the antibody treatment, so that the IEA is more fully accessible to the antibody when
   administered. The period of time between treatment may be one hour or more, preferably 4
15 hours or more, preferably 8 hours or more, or preferably 12 or 24 hours or more.
           Antibodies to immune enhancing antigens of the disclosure may be administered
   directly to a patient to treat or prevent infection of MTB via inhalation, oral, SQ, IM, IP, IV or
   another effective route, often determined by the physical location of the infection and/or the
   infected cells. Treatment is preferably one in which the patient does not develop or develops
20 only reduced symptoms (e.g., reduced in severity, strength, period of time, and/or number)
   associated with MTB infection and/or does not become otherwise contagious. Antibodies
   used in conjunction with anti-MTB antibiotics will increase the clearance of MTB or
   inactivate substances that impede immunity as measured by a more rapid reduction of
   symptoms, more rapid time to smear negativity and improved weight gain and general health.
25 In addition, treatment provides an effective reduction in the severity of symptoms, the
   generation of immunity to MTB, and/or the reduction of infective period of time. Preferably
   the patient is administered an effective amount of antibodies to prevent or overcome MTB
   infection alone or as adjunctive therapy with antibiotics.
           Another embodiment of the disclosure is directed to methods of identifying one or
30 more antibodies that activate phagocytizing cells. These methods comprise screening a
   population of antibodies and selected the one or more antibodies of those screened that are the
                                                      16

   effective in the activation of phagocytizing cells. As a first step, microbes of interest are
   provided and may be purified, isolated or both. The microbes may be killed, attenuated or live
   microorganisms. Preferred microbes include MTB or another microorganism that cause an
   infectious disease in humans. Optionally, the microbe may be treated with a chemical or
 5 physical agent and preferred treatment include, for example, exposure to a chemical such as
   ethanol or gluteraldehyde that alters the chemical structure of one or more antigens of the
   microbe, or physical that alters the microbe structure. Alteration can involve a chemical
   change, such as, for example, removal or alteration of a specific chemical moiety, or physical
   such for example a shifting of a moiety so that a new region or epitope appears. The
10 antibodies to be screened in the methods of the disclosure can be created or generated, or
   commercially provided. Preferably the antibodies are polyclonal antibodies, antibody
   fragments such as, for example, Fab, Fc and single chain antibodies, or monoclonal derived
   from mice or another mammal. The antibodies are next incubated with phagocytizing cells
   under conditions whereby the activity of the cells can be measured during or after a set period
15 of incubation. Activity can be any cellular activity such as, for example, proliferation, the
   presence or absence of a marker, oxygen uptake or utilization, or determining any cellular
   activity such as, preferably, phagocytizing activity. Phagocytizing cells include most any cells
   that demonstrate phagocytosis and include for example, macrophages, neutrophils, monocytes,
   mast cells, white blood cells, dendritic cells, phagocytic cell lines, HL-60 cells, U-937 cells,
20 PMA treated cells, PMA treated U-937 cells, and combinations thereof. The measurement of
   activity can be performed by any technique known to those skilled in the art and is preferable
   by observation of the cells, by the appearance of cell vacuoles, by microbe or antigen uptake
   assays, or by measurement of phagocytizing markers. Preferably the measurement of activity
   is performed using a fluorescent-based microscopy assay. Upon determining activity of
25 phagocytizing cells incubated with the antibodies, one or more of the antibodies that showed
   activity or an increased activity as compared to a control are selected. Controls include, for
   example, phagocytic activity of the cells that have not been treated with any antibodies, the
   phagocytic activity of the cells after incubation with antibodies provided against untreated
   antigen, or the phagocytic activity of the cells after treatment with an agent that does not
30 generate phagocytic activity. Preferably the activity is present only on incubation with
   antibodies specifically responsive to the microbe. Selected antibodies are preferable useful for
                                                     17

   the treatment and/or prevent of infection of the microbe. Preferably, when the microbe is
   MTB, the one or more antibodies that show increased activity of phagocytizing cells as
   compared to a control can be used to treat and/or prevent MTB infection in a human or other
   mammal.
 5         Although the disclosure is generally described in reference to human infection by
   Mycobacterium tuberculosis,as is clear to those skilled in the art the compositions including
   many of the antibodies, tools and methodology is generally and specifically applicable to the
   treatment and prevention of many other diseases and infections in many other subjects (e.g.,
   cats, dogs, pets, etc.) and most especially diseases wherein the causative agent is of viral,
10 bacterial, fungal and parasitic origins.
           The following examples illustrate embodiments of the disclosure, but should not be
   viewed as limiting the scope of the disclosure.
   Examples
   Example 1
15         Mice bleeds: Female Balb/c mice were acquired at 3-4 weeks of age; 7-14 days prior to
   the commencement of the study to allow them acclimate to the facility. Thereafter, the mice were
   tagged with ear tags for identification, and bled at the orbital lobe prior to immunization to have
   a reference point. The mice were bled at days 20, 29, 63, and prior to fusion. About 150pL
   200pL of blood was collected at each bleed. Antisera Titers for MS 1319-1342 Immunized with
20 Washed Battelle Bugs (Batch III @ OD 600nM=1.000).
           Sera processing: At each bleed, blood was collected in micro-centrifuge tubes and stored
   in cryo-vials at from 2-8 0 C overnight. On the next day, samples were centrifuged at 2000 rpm for
   10 minutes at 22'C. The top layer of sera was carefully collected, avoiding red blood cells (RBC),
   and stored in new micro-centrifuge tubes at minus 20'C. In the event that the sera could not be
25 processed the next day, sera samples were processed on the same day as the bleed. Sera samples
   were placed in a 37'C incubator for 30 minutes, and then placed at 2-8'C for 15 minutes.
   Afterwards, sera samples were centrifuged and processed in the manner indicated above. Sera
   processing was performed on the bench-top.
           Killed MTB organisms: M. tuberculosis were grown in Middlebrook broth, washed three
30 times in PBS and then suspended in either 70% ethanol or 2% glutaraldehyde activated with
                                                     18

   sodium bicarbonate. A third antigen preparation was sonicated (Son), glutaraldehyde killed MTB.
   Washed ethanol-killed and glutaraldehyde-killed MTB were obtained from Battelle at a
   concentration of 5.0xIO8CFU/mL. TB Pep 01 was produced by Pi Proteomics at a purity of over
   90%.
 5 Mice Immunizations:
           Whole Bug Immunizations: Tuberculosis bacterial, strain Battelle (Batch III), killed with
   ethanol (EtOH-k) or glutaraldehyde (Glut-k), were washed in PBS to remove potential toxic
   substances. One mL of antigen at original concentration was centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 10
   minutes. 900pL of the supernatant was discarded and the pellet re-suspended 900pL of PBS by
10 centrifugation at 12000rpm for 10 minutes. This was repeated two more times for a total of three
   washes. PBS was used because it is isotonic to blood and does not cause hardship to the mice.
           Adjuvant Immunizations: 50% Alum and Titer-Max Gold (adjuvant). For the groups with
   adjuvant Titer-Max Gold, the adjuvant comprised 60% of the injection. Antigen was added to the
   adjuvant in a double plunger glass syringe where the emulsion was prepared. The mice were
15 immunized at day 0 and boosted on Day-22, and within the week prior to fusion. Each mouse
   was immunized with 200pL of antigen at varying concentrations to assess immunogenicity. The
   immunizations were delivered subcutaneously, and then intravenously prior to fusion.
   Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA): The sera and supernatants (from hybridoma
   cells) were tested by ELISA to determine antisera and hybridoma titers.
20         Fusion and Hybridoma Production: Post-Day 63, mice that had been identified by ELISA
   for high antisera titers were sacrificed and their spleens harvested. The spleen cells were fused to
   SP2/0 myeloma cells using ethylene glycol, and 100pl seeded and grown in sterile, 96-well culture
   plates as adhesion cells. The fused cells were stored in a 37'C humidified 5% C02 incubator. The
   fusion was performed in a sterile laminar flow hood.
25         Cell Culture: On Day 1, the day after fusion, IX HAT selection media was introduced to
   select for hybridoma cells. The cells were incubated at 37'C in a humidified 5% CO 2 incubator.
   On Day 9 or 10, they hybridoma supernatants were tested for antibody production. Afterwards,
   cells were fed twice a week, on Mondays and Fridays with hybridoma media that consisted of
   15% FBS, 1% L-Glutamine, 0.1% Gentamycin, 1% Protein-free hybridoma media, and IX HT
30 media in DMEM. For each re-feed; 60pl of supernatant were discarded and 100pl of media added
                                                      19

   to each well. This process was performed using aseptic techniques in a sterile hood. Refer to SOP
   1005-00 Basic Cell Culture Techniques.
           Mycolic Acid-BSA Conjugation:
           Reagents: Mycolic acid from mycobacterium tuberculosis, Sigma Cat: M4537. N
 5 hexane, Sigma Cat: 296090. 1-(3-Dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiimide Hydrochloride,
   TCI Cat: D1601. DMSO, Sigma Cat: D2650. Bovine serum albumin, Sigma Cat: A9418.
           Method: 1.2 mg of mycolic acid was dissolved into 25pL of n-hexane. 1.7 mg of
   BSA was dissolved into 1.2 mL of 0.1M MES buffer pH 6, and 0.06 mL of DMSO was added
   with vortexing. The mycolic acid solution was added slowly to the BSA solution with
10 vortexing. 14 mg of EDC was added as dry powder with stirring. The pH was recorded to be
   5.5 after all additions and the reaction proceeded overnight at 4'C. The following day the
   conjugate solution was dialyzed against PBS-T in 14k MWCO tubing.
           TB Peptide - Conjugation:
   CRM-Flu Peptide 5906 (NS0243), CRM-TB peptide 1 (NS0245), CRM-TB peptide 2
15 (NS0246) (see Table 1): CRM was brought to 6mg/mL in 0.1M HEPES pH 8 + 0.1% Tween
   80. A 30 fold excess of 0.2M SBAP in DMSO was added while vortexing and incubated at
   room temperature for 1 hour. Following incubation, the CRM was dialyzed against PBS
   EDTA pH 7.7. All peptides were dissolved in 0.IM HEPES pH 8 at l0mg/mL. A two fold
   molar excess of 0.2M SATA in DMSO was added while vortexing and the solutions incubated
20 at room temperature for one hour. The solutions were brought to pH 6 with IM sodium
   acetate and IM NH 2 0H was added to a final concentration of 50mM. The CRM-SBAP was
   taken out of dialysis and divided into 3 x 3mg aliquots. The peptides were added to the CRM
   SBAP while vortexing and the pH brought to 8 with IM HEPES pH 8. The conjugates were
   allowed incubate overnight at 4'C. The conjugates were dialyzed against PBS pH 8, put
25 through a 0.2pm filter, and the A 280 was read for concentration using 1.07 as the 0.1%
   extinction coefficient of CRM. CRM-Mycolic acid (NS0244): CRM was brought to 6mg/mL
   in 0.IM HEPES pH 8 + 0.1% Tween 80. 5mg of mycolic acid dissolved in 1OOpL of n
   hexane. The CRM (3mg) and 2mg of mycolic acid were mixed and 50mg of EDC was added.
   The solution had a final pH of 7.9 and incubated overnight at 4'C. The conjugate dialyzed
30 into PBS pH 8, filtered to 0.2pm, and the concentration was determined by A280.
                                                   20

                                               Table 1
                                   NS0243        NS0244         NS0245         NS0246
           CRM Used                3 mg          3 mg           3 mg           3 mg
           Peptide Used            3.6 mg        2 mg           4.5 mg         3.2 mg
           Final OD                2.3           0.64           2.4            1.84
           Final Concentration     2.15 mg/mL    0.6 mg/mL      2.24 mg/mL     1.72 mg/mL
            Reagents: Tetanus toxoid obtained from the Serum Institute, Batch 031L1006.
   Diphtheria toxoid (CRM) was obtained from Fina Biosolutions, Rockville, MD. DMSO,
 5 Sigma Cat: D2650. N-Succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithiol)-propionate (SPDP), Molecular
   BioSciences Cat: 67432. 4-Maleimidobutyric aced NHS-ester (GMBS), Molecular
   BioSciences Cat: 98799. TB Peptide, PiProteomics, Name Peptide 1 (SEQ ID NO 1; the 16
   KD heat-shock MTB antigen "Promiscuous Peptide") (Gowthaman et al., JID 204: 1328-1338,
   1 November 2011). Dithiothreitol, Spectrum Cat: DI184. 0.8 mg of peptide was diluted into
10 80pL of 0.1M HEPES pH 8 and 19pL of 0.1M SPDP in DMSO was added with vortexing. In
   a separate vial, 5 mg of BSA was diluted into 0.48 mL of 0. IM HEPES pH 7.4 and 7pL of
   0.iM GMBS in DMSO was added with vortexing. Both solutions were incubated at room
   temperature for 1 hour. The BSA-GMBS was dialyzed against 2L of PBS-EDTA pH 6.8. IM
   DTT in NaOAc was added to the peptide solution to a final concentration of 15mM and
15 incubated for 1 hour. The peptide was desalted on a P2 column with PBS-EDTA pH 6.8 and
   0.2 mL fractions were collected. The fractions were checked for 280nm absorbance and the
   first half of the curve with 280 OD were pooled and added to the BSA-GMBS. The solution
   was allowed to react overnight at 4'C, followed by dialysis into PBS.
   Example 2: Induction of Humoral Immunity
20          Mice immunized with MTB killed with ethanol (Figure 1) or glutaraldehyde (Figure 2)
   developed a strong humoral antibody response with good binding to MTB. In addition, mice
   immunized with ethanol-killed MTB had a higher and more rapid rise in antibody titers than
   did mice immunized with Glut-killed MTB and SQ was superior to the IV route of
   immunization. Mice immunized SQ with sonicated MTB (Figure 3) had increased antibody
25 responses compared to IV and adjuvant, Alum and Tmax (squalene, water oil emulsion)
                                                 21

   (Figure 4), enhanced antibody to MTB in some mice. A summary of the results from these
   experiments is provided in Table 2.
                                        Table 2 ELISA Results
   Sample           Route   Mouse ID      Prelim         Day 21        Day 42         Day 63
 5 EtOH + TB        SQ      1319          0.076          0.276         4.000          4.000
                    SQ      1320          0.074          0.763         3.812          4.000
                    SQ      1321          0.076          0.519         4.000          4.000
                    IV      1322          0.063          1.553         3.346          3.611
                    IV      1323          0.066          1.857         4.000          4.000
10                  IV      1324          0.072          0.164         0.834           1.578
   Glu + TB         SQ      1325          0.072          0.074         0.840          3.051
                    SQ      1326          0.062          0.060         0.272          0.588
                    SQ      1327          0.076          0.102         1.751          2.573
                    IV      1328          0.064          0.071         0.907          1.481
15                  IV      1329          0.094          0.081         0.106          0.135
                    IV      1330          0.086          0.240         0.561          0.915
   Son/Glu+ TB SQ           1331          0.085          0.193         1.722          2.752
                    SQ      1332          0.077          0.094         0.190          0.155
                    SQ      1333          0.090          0.210         0.854          1.037
20                  IV      1334          0.068          0.077         0.152          0.127
                    IV      1335          0.080          0.077         0.097          0.096
                    IV      1336          0.062          0.070         0.085          0.135
   Son/Glu + TB SQ          1337          0.064          0.112         0.628          2.128
   + Adjuvant       SQ      1338          0.078          0.067         0.169          0.280
25                  SQ      1339          0.071          0.096         0.356          2.422
                    IV      1340          0.092          0.101         0.185          0.149
                    IV      1341          0.087          0.086         0.299          2.843
                    IV      1342          0.066          0.308         0.156          0.134
30         Mice immunized with ethanol killed TB had the best response and there was little
   difference observed between immunizations SQ or IV. At day 21 there was a significant
   difference in titers of SQ and IV immunizations. By day 42 and day 63, there was little to no
   difference. Glutaraldehyde-killed TB mice developed titers, but not until day 42 as there
   appeared to be a delay to the immune response. Sonication was thought to increase the
35 availability of epitopes, but only 1331 and 1333 (both SQ) developed titers at day 42 with an
   increase at day 63. Although adjuvant is supposed to increase activity of the immune system,
   the group with adjuvant had only modestly elevated titers at day 63. One possibility is that the
   epitopes did not respond effectively with this type of adjuvant.
                                                   22

            A strong binding to mycolic acid was demonstrated in post immunization sera and
   further studies showed that when spleen cells were fused, the majority of MABs bound to
   MTB and mycolic acid. Mycolic acid impedes opsonophagoctosis and vaccines that induce
   humoral immunity to this cell wall component or antibodies that bind to this lipid would be
 5 useful to prevent or treat TB. A mycolic acid subunit vaccine or conjugate vaccine that
   induces humoral immunity to MTB would be useful to prevent or mitigate TB infections.
            Peptide conjugate vaccine
            Mice immunized with a small TB peptide conjugate vaccine (SEQ ID NO 1)
   developed humoral immunity to this 16 KD heat shock protein. These antibodies to an
10 important TB moiety provide another method for humoral immune induction to mitigate
   against TB infection, either alone or with other antibodies raised against one or more other key
   targets, such as mycolic acid.
   Example 3: Immunizations
            Mouse 1124 was immunized with TB heat shock peptide-BSA conjugate vaccine (100
15 pg) on days 0, 21, 42 and 112. On day 152 (3 days before sacrifice for splenic fusion), 6 logs
   of MTB that were ethanol killed were injected IV. Priming with MTB peptides followed by
   whole MTB challenge elicits a rapid rise to the priming peptide that can be detected within 3
   days (Figure 5).
            It is surprising that the titers were higher within 3 days of challenge with whole killed
20 MTB. Also, although small, priming with MTB peptides followed by whole MTB challenge
   elicited a rapid rise to the priming peptide that could be detected within 3 days.
   Example 4: Mice immunized with unwashed, ethanol killed MTB (as above), produced
   numerous hybridomas producing antibodies that bound to whole ethanol killed MTB (Figure
   6). Surprisingly there was a close correlation between serum binding to Mycolic acid and
25 MTB bacilli. This killed MTB immunization produced a humoral immune response to
   mycolic acid and MTB, thus demonstrating that the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to
   mycolic acid, prepared according to the disclosure, can be useful for prevention and also
   treatment of MTB infections.
   Example 5: Peptide Sequences
30          All peptides were synthetically manufactured. A listing of the sequences and the
   epitopes contained within each peptide is shown in Table 3 (Flu = influenza virus).
                                                      23

                               Table 3 Sequences of Peptides of Vaccines
   SEQ ID NO 1 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE - TB Pep01
   SEQ ID NO 2 GNLFIAP (Flu HA epitope)
   SEQ ID NO 3 HYEECSCY (Flu NA epitope)
 5 SEQ ID NO 4 WGVIHHP (Flu HA epitope)
   SEQ ID NO 5 GNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCY (composite of Flu HA plus NA sequences)
   SEQ ID NO 6 WGVIHHPGNLFIAPHYEECSCY (composite of Flu HA plus NA sequences)
   SEQ ID NO 7 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADEGNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCY - TB
   Pep02
10          (composite of HSPX with Flu HA, HA and NA sequences)
   SEQ ID NO 8 GNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCYSEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE
             (composite of Flu sequences of HA and NA with HSPX
   SEQ ID NO 9 HYEECSCYSEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE (composite of Flu NA with
   HSPX)
15 SEQ ID NO 10 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADEHYEECSCY (composite of Flu NA with
   HSPX)
            Mice were immunized with ethanol killed MTB and MTB conjugate vaccine CRM-TB
   PepO1 according to standard protocol. The mice developed brisk antibody titers to TB PepO1,
20 mycolic acid, and other surface antigens as measured by ELISA (see Figures). Monoclonal
   antibodies were produced according to protocol, characterized and purified. Isolated MABs
   from mice immunized with ethanol killed MTB were generally type IgG1 while the conjugate
   CRM - Pep01 vaccine MABs were each IgG2 (Table 4). The vaccines induced good serum
   titers to their respective immunogens. Both mycolic acid binding MABs and MTB surface
25 binding MABs were induced by whole killed MTB. MABs to one or more immunity
   enhancing antigens are believed to useful for preventing and/or treating MTB or other
   infections. TB Pep02 induced serum titers to influenza and influenza peptide (SEQ ID NO 5)
   and MABs were produced to the influenza peptide sequence (Table 4).
                                                  24

           Table 4. Isolated and Purified Monoclonal Antibodies
               Vaccine             Mouse          MAB          Isotype                 Binding
           CRM-TB Pep01             1435    LD71BB2LD7 1        IgG2a                 TB Pep01
                                                    BB2
           CRM-TB PepO1             1435     A611GABCA6         IgG2b                 TB Pep01
                                               JG111DG 7
      EtOH Killed MTB Lot 3         1323     JG711ID3JG7         IgG1               MTB Surface
                                                  III D3MTSufc
                                    1420     A891A5AB9 I         IgGI               MTB Surface
                                                    AG     I
                                            GG9 IIF2GG9 1        IgGI      Mycolic Acid - MTB Surface
       EtOH killed MTB Lot 4                         F2
                                                     F4          IgGI           Mycolic Acid - Free
                                             GG9I G2GG9          IgG1      Mycolic Acid - MTB Surface
                                                   11 G2
           CRM-TB Pep02             1438    FEIIA5FEI            IgGI       Influenza Peptide   (Seq 5)
                                                   11 A
           CRM-TB Pep02             1438    FEI lB3FEII          IgGI       Influenza Peptide   (Seq 5)
   Example 6
           Phagocytic cells (HL60) were incubated with ethanol killed MTB according to
 5 standard protocol. MTB were rapidly taken into the cells, but remained unchanged. In
   addition the phagocytic cells did not react. In marked contrast, the addition of a MAB
   (purified AB9IA5) that binds to the surface of MTB caused a rapid and profound response in
   the phagocyte. The MTB was engulfed in vacuoles and the organism morphology was rapidly
   destroyed. A fluorescent-based microscopy assay was developed to examine functional
10 antibody activity against inactivated Mycobacteriun tuberculosis (MTB) using differentiated
   HL60 cells in the presence and/or absence of human complement. Bacteria: Inactivated
   Mycobacterium tuberculosis was obtained from Battelle (West Jefferson, Ohio). Stock MTB:
   1mL bacterial suspensions fixed in EtOH or glutaraldehyde at a concentration between I and
   10 x 108 CFU/ml (OD600nM = 1.000). Fixative removal: Ethanol and glutaraldehyde
15 fixatives in MTB were removed prior to staining and/or mixing with differentiated HL60 cells
   to prevent damage to macrophages. Centrifugation: Fixative removal, staining, destaining and
                                                    25

   washing steps were done using centrifugation at 12000rpm for 5min, unless noted otherwise.
   The location of the bacterial pellet was noted post centrifugation. Using a pipette, ~ 1,000ul of
   supernatant from the tube was removed without disrupting the pellet. The MTB pellet was
   resuspended with a maximum volume of 1.2mL per reagent and gently mixed by pipetting up
 5 and down 4-5 times.
   Procedure for Auramine 0 Staining of MTB
            One ml of stock MTB was pelleted by centrifugation, washed 3 times with sterile
   tissue culture grade water to remove fixative. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL of
   TB Auramine 0 and stained for 15 minutes at room temperature and then washed once with
10 demineralized water using centrifugation. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL TB
   Decolorizer (Truant-Moore) for 2-3 minutes then washed once with demineralized water,
   again using centrifugation. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL TB Potassium
   Permanganate for 2-4 minutes and washed three times with demineralized water using
   centrifugation. The MTB pellet was resuspended in 1mL sterile TC water. Growth and
15 Differentiation of HL60 cells: Cells from the HL60 cell line (promyelocytic human leukemia
   cells: Ass# 98070106, Lot 11D009; Sigma) were conditioned before use. Stock HL60s: A
   frozen stock vial was thawed and expanded into a T-25 flask to a density of 5x 105 cells/mL in
   RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L-Glutamine supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum
   (FBS). No antibiotics were added into the culture media. Undifferentiated HL60s: Cells
20 were grown in 200mL suspensions at 37 0 C in a 5% C02 humidified atmosphere. The cells
   were passaged every 3-4 days at 1-1.5 x 105 cells/mL in RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L
   Glutamine and 10% FBS with no antibiotics. Differentiated HL60s: Cells were differentiated
   once a week at 2 x 105 cells/mL in RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L-Glutamine, 20% FBS,
   1.25% Dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO) with no antibiotics. These cells were ready for use in the
25 assay at day 5 or 6 post induction with DMSO. Aseptically, one mL of differentiated HL60
   cells at day 5 or 6 was aliquoted into a microcentrifuge tube for use in the fluorescent-based
   microscopy assay. ActinRed 555 Staining of Differentiated H160 cells: Differentiated HL60
   cells were stained with ActinRed 555 Ready Probes reagent (Cat# R37112, Life
   Technologies). Two drops of ActinRed 555 dye were added per mL of media/cells which
30 were then gently vortexed and incubated for 5-15 minutes. Antibody Test Samples: Neat
                                                   26

   serum or purified MAB samples were stored at minus 20'C before use, thawed and diluted in
   Phosphate Buffered Saline, pH 7.4 (Cat# 100049, Life Technologies). The test samples
   selected had antibodies against MTB with titers and/or binding activity confirmed by enzyme
   linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Serum Dilution: Neat serum was diluted to a 1:100
 5 test sample by adding 990pL of PBS into a microcentrifuge tube followed with lOuL of neat
   serum into the 990pL PBS. All was vortexed gently to mix. Purified MAB Dilution: One
   mL of MAB sample was prepared by diluting the stock MAB to 100pg/mL in PBS. The
   100pg/mL sample was further diluted to a 10pg/mL by adding 45pL of PBS into a
   microcentrifuge tube and adding l0pL of purified MAB into the 90pL PBS, again vortexing
10 gently to mix. Complement: Human Complement was obtained from Thermofisher
   Scientific, Cat NC988107; Lot 908634 and was aliquoted and stored at minus 80"C until use.
   Stored sample was diluted in cold DMEM F-12 media (Cat# D8062, Sigma) supplemented
   with Hepes Buffer (Cat# H0887, Sigma). Complement was diluted into a 1:16 sample by
   thawing in an ice bath followed by the addition of 150pL of cold media into a microcentrifuge
15 tube with l0pL of human complement placed into the 150pL of cold media which was
   repeatedly pipetted to mix and kept in the ice bath until use. With a Nikon Eclipse E600
   Fluorescent Microscope, various combinations of test samples were examined that included:
   (1) ActinRed stained differentiated cells, (2) Auramine 0 stained MTB, (3) anti-MTB
   antibodies and (4) Human Complement. Individual or combinations of samples were placed
20 in labeled tubes as with the rations (see Table 5): 100pL HL60s: 100pL MAB/Serum: lOpL
   MTB: 10pL C'. With a pipette, 20pL of sample were deposited into the middle of a micro
   slide and examined using IOOX magnification with emersion oil. The Nikon Eclipse E600
   Fluorescent Microscope Camera used a professional image acquisition software to process and
   manages images.
25
                                                   27

                                      Table 5 - FluMic 001 & 002
   Slide / Tube Number                      Test Sample                       Time point
     TS01                    HL60s only + ActinRed 555                      0 min
     TS02                    Inactivated MTB + Auramine 0 Stain             0 min
     TS03                    Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB          3 - 60 min
     TS04                    Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB          3 - 60 min
                             anti-MTB/MAB A891A5
     TSO1                    Differentiated HL60s only + ActinRed 555       0 min
     TSO2                    Inactivated MTB + Auramine 0 Stain             0 min
     TS03                    Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB          3 - 60 min
     TS04                    Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB +        3 - 60 min
                             anti-MTB MAB GG91 1F2
   Example 7: Antibody Stimulated Enhanced Phagocytic Activity
 5         Studies were performed using HL 60 phagocytic cells to evaluate the ability of
   antibodies to specific MTB target molecules to enhance phagocytic activity against
   MTB. Parallel studies using Group B Streptococci (GBS) demonstrated that antibodies
   directed against GBS capsule could facilitate rapid phagocytosis and killing of GBS by HL 60
   cells. Ethanol killed MTB was incubated in the absence of antibody with the same
10 conditioned HL 60 phagocytic cells. While the MTB was taken inside the phagocyte, the
   Bacillus remained normal in size and morphology and the HL 60 cells were not stimulated and
   did not change appearance. The MTB bacilli and HL 60 cells were both unchanged despite
   having the MTB in the cell cytoplasm. This has been considered to be a problem for TB
   latency that MTB can persist unharmed inside phagocytic cells.
15         To analyze the ability of antibodies to specific MTB substances to stimulate
   phagocytes and enhance phagocytic activity, cloned and purified mouse monoclonal
   antibodies (MAB) were used to various MTB targets and epitopes (Table 4). Incubating MAB
   AB9 IA5 (Table 4) with MTB alone did appear to alter the shape or morphology of the
   bacillus. The halo zone around the bacillus (cell wall/surface matrix) was unchanged. When
20 HL 60 phagocytic cells were added to MTB and the MAB the cells were rapidly stimulated to
                                                   28

   engulf and phagocytize the bacilli, which appeared in vacuoles not in the cytoplasm. Over 3
   10 minutes the vacuoles enlarged and bacillus morphology deteriorated. These changes
   continued to progress over time with large blebs and protrusions appearing throughout the cell.
   The MTB antibody enhanced phagocytosis and the bacillus up take and destruction visualized
 5 are consistent with the phagocytosis and killing data demonstrated with antibody and
   GBS. The MAB AB9IA5 is an IgGI antibody that binds to an unidentified MTB surface
   antigen as determined by ELISA.
           To further determine the ability of antibodies to stimulate phagocytes to engulf and
   destroy MTB, a different purified MAB GG9 II G2 (Table 4) was utilized that binds to a
10 mycolic acid surface epitope as measured by ELISA binding to both MTB bacilli and the
   mycolic acid moiety. Surprisingly when this MAB was incubated with MTB alone, the
   morphology changed and the bacillus enlarged, with the cell wall/surface matrix halo
   increasing in size. When HL 60 phagocytic cells were incubated with the MTB and the MAB
   the phagocytes were markedly stimulated and extended pseudopods that bound and engulfed
15 the MTB. The pseudopods were actively moving to bring the bacilli into vacuoles and over 5
   15 minutes the MTB was deformed and degraded. This anti-mycolic acid antibody promoted
   active phagocytic engagement of MTB and stimulated profound up-take of MTB and vacuole
   formation. Over the next several minutes the bacilli were degraded and destroyed. Mycolic
   acid is a major component of the surface matrix of MTB and considered to enable the MTB to
20 be able to avoid effective phagocytosis and killing. Not all mycolic acid antibodies bind to the
   MTB bacillus (Table 4) and therefore will not stimulate phagocytes to engulf and kill
   MTB. This method of producing MABs that detect binding to whole MTB and target
   molecules and then analyzing the ability of the MAB to stimulate phagocytic HL 60 cells
   using fluorescent-based microscopy is useful for detecting MABs for preventing or treating
25 TB. In addition this method is useful for validating vaccine targets designed to induce
   antibodies to MTB.
   Example 8
           Purified MAB M1438 FEl 111 B3 was induced in a mouse by immunization with non
   natural, synthetically produced, MTB and Influenza (Flu) combined peptide antigen (Seq ID
30 7) that was conjugated to the CRM protein. This combined peptide sequence contains 5 Flu
                                                   29

   peptides and one MTB peptide. Peptide 3 and Peptide 6 are non-natural Flu peptide composite
   epitopes of HA that combine the sequences of different Flu serotypes (Seq ID 2 and 4). Pep 9
   is a combined peptide of 3 and 6. Flu Pep 10 is a NA peptide that when synthesized with Pep
   3 and 6 is sequence Pep 11 (Seq ID 5 and 6). TB Pep 02 is a combination of TB Pep 01 (Seq
 5 ID 1) and Flu Pep 2,3 and 4 (Seq ID 7). The MAB binding to various epitopes and antigens
   was analyzed by ELISA according to protocol (Figure 7). The MAB bound well to TB Pep 02
   at both I and10 pg/ml and at 10pg/ml to Flu Pep 11 and surprisingly to gluteraldehyde killed
   MTB (Glut-K TB). Binding to Glut-K TB, but not to ethanol killed TB (EtOH-K TB)
   demonstrates that each type of microbial inactivation changes the normal antigens of the
10 organism differently producing a variety of non-natural antigens or epitopes and in this case
   ethanol and gluteraldehyde each alter the surface moieties of MTB differently thereby creating
   new and non-natural structures that are recognized by the immune system.
           Other embodiments and uses of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the
   art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. All
15 references cited herein, including all publications and U.S. and foreign patents and patent
   applications, are specifically and entirely incorporated by reference including U.S. Patent
   Application Publication No. 2013/0195909 entitled "C'omposite Antigenic Sequences and
   Vaccines" filed January 25, 2013, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0281754
   entitled "Compositions and Method for Detecting, Identifying and Quantitating
20 Mycobacterial-SpecificNucleic Acid " filed April 26, 2011, U.S. Patent Application
   Publication No. 2009/0081202 entitled "Immunogenic Compositions andMethods" filed
   August 27, 2008, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/746,962 entitled "Multipurpose
   Compositionsfor Collecting, Transportingand Storing Biological Samples" filed December
   28, 2012. The term comprising, where ever used, is intended to include the terms consisting
25 and consisting essentially of. Furthermore, the terms comprising, including, containing and
   the like are not intended to be limiting. It is intended that the specification and examples be
   considered exemplary only with the true scope and spirit of the disclosure indicated by the
   following claims.
           Also disclosed is
                                                     30

   1. A vaccine for the treatment or prevention of infection of Mycobacteriun tuberculosis
      (MTB) in a mammal comprising an antigen and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
      wherein the antigen comprises a non-naturally occurring MTB immunity enhancing
      antigen (lEA), wherein the lEA is an altered form of a naturally occurring MTB
 5    antigen.
   2. The vaccine of statement 1, wherein the lEA is derived from heat-killed MTB, alcohol
      killed MTB, glutaraldehyde-killed MTB, or sonicated MTB.
   3. The vaccine of statement 1, wherein the MTB immunity enhancing antigen comprises
      an altered portion of an MTB heat shock protein, an MTB surface antigen, an MTB
10    internal antigen, an MTB composite peptide, an MTB/Influenza conjugate peptide, or
      peptide sequence listed in Table 3.
   4. The vaccine of statement 1, wherein the MTB immunity enhancing antigen generates a
      humoral or cellular immune response in the mammal.
   5. The vaccine of statement 4, wherein the cellular immune response comprises
15    phagocytic activity.
   6. The vaccine of statement 4, wherein the period of time during which the mammal
      remains protected again MTB infection is at least one year.
   7. The vaccine of statement 4, wherein the humoral immune response comprising the
      generation of antibodies that promote MTB phagocytosis.
20 8. The vaccine of statement 1, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises
      oil, fatty acids, lipids, polymers, carbohydrates, gelatin, solvents, saccharides, buffers,
      stabilizing agents, surfactants, wetting agents, lubricating agents, emulsifiers,
      suspending agents, preservatives, antioxidants, opaquing agents, glidants, processing
      aids, colorants, sweeteners, perfuming agents, flavoring agents or an immunological
25    inert substance, a carrier designated as generally recognized as safe (GRAS), or a
      combination thereof.
                                                31

   9. The vaccine of statement 1, further comprising an adjuvant.
   10. The vaccine of statement 9, wherein the adjuvant comprises alum, amino acids,
       proteins, lipid/water emulsion.
   11. The vaccine of statement 1, which contains multiple different IEAs of MTB.
 5 12. A method for treating or preventing MTB infection comprising administering the
       vaccine of statement I to a mammal.
   13. The method of statement 12, wherein the vaccine is administered orally, by aerosol,
       intranasally, intramuscular, intravenously or subcutaneously.
   14. The method of statement 12, wherein the vaccine is administered before or after a
10     primary vaccine.
   15. The method of statement 14, wherein the vaccine is administered from about 2 to about
       30 days in advance of the primary vaccine.
   16. The method of statement 14, wherein the primary vaccine is BCG, a killed whole-cell
       or attenuated MTB vaccine.
15 17. The method of statement 12, wherein the vaccine generates a humoral or cellular
       immune response in the mammal.
   18. The method of statement 17, wherein the humoral immune response comprises
       generation of antibodies specifically reactive against mycolic acid of the surface of
       MTB.
20 19. The method of statement 17, wherein the cellular immune response comprises
       enhanced activity of phagocytic cells.
   20. The method of statement 17, wherein the cellular immune response comprises
       generation of memory T cells.
                                               32

   21. A non-naturally occurring antibody that is specifically reactive against an MTB
       moiety.
   22. The antibody of statement 21, wherein the MTB moiety has been altered by chemical
       treatment.
 5 23. The antibody of statement 22, wherein the chemical treatment is ethanol or
       gluteraldehyde treatment.
   24. The antibody of statement 21, wherein the MTB moiety is derived from an MTB heat
       shock protein, a peptidoglycan of MTB, a mycolic acid of MTB, a lipoarabinomannan
       of MTB, or a combination thereof.
10 25. The antibody of statement 23, which is an IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM, or isolated Fab
       or Fc portions.
   26. The antibody of statement 21, which comprises a monoclonal or a polyclonal antibody.
   27. The monoclonal antibody of statement 26, which is derived from a mouse or a mouse
       human chimera, or is fully or partly humanized from a non-human antibody.
15 28. A hybridoma that produces the monoclonal antibody of statement 26.
   29. A method for treating or preventing an MTB infection in a mammal by administering
       non-naturally occurring antibodies that enhances phagocytic activity against MTB.
   30. The method of statement 29, wherein the phagocytic activity is enhanced in
       comparison to natural antibodies generated against the whole organism.
20 31. The method of statement 29, wherein the antibodies comprise polyclonal antibodies,
       monoclonal antibodies or both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies.
   32. The method of statement 29, wherein the antibodies are specifically reactive against an
       epitope of peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan, or a combination thereof.
                                              33

       33. The method of statement 29, wherein the antibodies serve as an adjunctive therapy in
           combination with administration of an antibiotic.
       34. A method for treating or preventing an MTB infection in a mammal comprising
           administering a cocktail comprising two or more monoclonal antibodies .
 5     35. The method of statement 34, wherein at least one monoclonal antibody of the cocktail
           is specific for one or more of a heat shock protein, a peptidoglycan, a mycolic acid, a
           lipoarabinomannan, peptidoglycan, of a mycolic acid, of a lipoarabinomannan, or a
           combination thereof.
       36. The method of statement 34, wherein the cocktail contains multiple different
10         monoclonal antibodies, each different monoclonal antibody specifically reactive
           against a different IEA.
       37. An antigen which comprises a non-naturally occurring immunity enhancing epitope of
           MTB, wherein the immunity enhancing epitope is an altered form of a naturally
           occurring MTB epitope.
15     38. The antigen of statement 37, wherein the naturally occurring epitope is an epitope of a
           heat shock protein, peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan, or a combination
           thereof.
       39. A method of identifying one or more antibodies that activate phagocytizing cells,
           comprising:
20 providing a microbe;
   generating antibodies that are specifically responsive to the microbe:
   incubating the generated antibodies with the phagocytizing cells;
   determining an activity of the phagocytizing cells after incubation with the antibodies; and
                                                   34

   selecting the one or more antibodies that increase the activity of the phagocytizing cells as
   compared to a control.
       40. The method of statement 39, wherein the microbe is live or killed MTB.
       41. The method of statement 39, wherein the microbe is treated with a chemical or
 5         physical agent.
       42. The method of statement 41, wherein the chemical agent is ethanol or gluteraldehyde.
       43. The method of statement 39, wherein the antibodies are generated from a mouse or a
           human.
       44. The method of statement 39, wherein the antibodies are monoclonal antibodies.
10     45. The method of statement 39, wherein the phagocytizing cells are selected from the
           group consisting of macrophages, neutrophils, monocytes, mast cells, white blood
           cells, dendritic cells, phagocytic cell lines, HL-60 cells, U-937 cells, PMA treated
           cells, PMA treated U-937 cells, and combinations thereof.
       46. The method of statement 39, wherein the activity is cell proliferation, the presence or
15         absence of a marker, vacuole formation, or phagocytic activity.
       47. The method of statement 39, wherein the activity is determined by visual inspection,
           by antigen uptake, or by a fluorescent based microscopy assay of the phagocytizing
           cells.
       48. The method of statement 39, wherein the phagocytizing cells show activity only on
20         incubation with the one or more selected antibodies.
       49. The method of statement 39, wherein the control is the phagocytic activity of cells that
           have not been treated with the antibodies, the phagocytic activity of cells after
           incubation with antibodies provided against untreated microbes, or the phagocytic
           activity of cells after treatment with an agent that does not generate phagocytic
25         activity.
                                                      35

50. The method of statement 39, wherein the one or more antibodies selected treat or
    prevent a mammalian infection caused by the microbe.
                                         36

   Claims:
   51.     A vaccine for the treatment or prevention of infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis
   (MTB) in a mammal comprising an antigen and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
 5 wherein the antigen comprises a non-naturally occurring MTB immunity enhancing antigen
   (IEA), wherein the lEA is an antigenically altered form of a naturally occurring MTB antigen,
   wherein the MTB antigen has been altered by chemical treatment or has been derived from
   sonicated MTB.
   52.     The vaccine of claim 1, wherein the lEA is derived from, alcohol-killed MTB or
10 glutaraldehyde-killed MTB.
   53.     The vaccine of claim 1 or claim 2, which contains multiple different IEA's of MTB
   selected from any two or more of an altered portion of an MTB heat shock protein, an MTB
   surface antigen, an MTB internal antigen, an MTB composite peptide, an MTB/Influenza
   conjugate peptide, or peptide sequence listed in Table 3.
15 54.     The vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the MTB immunity enhancing
   antigen generates a humoral or cellular immune response in the mammal.
   55.     The vaccine of claim 4, wherein the cellular immune response comprises phagocytic
   activity.
   56.     The vaccine of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the period of time during which the
20 mammal remains protected again MTB infection is at least one year.
   57.     The vaccine of claim 4, wherein the humoral immune response comprises the
   generation of antibodies that promote MTB phagocytosis.
   58.     The vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 7, further comprising an adjuvant that comprises
   any one or more of alum, amino acids, proteins and lipid/water emulsion.
25 59.     A method for treating or preventing MTB infection comprising administering the
   vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 8 to a mammal.
                                                  37

   60.     The method of claim 9, wherein the vaccine is administered before or after a primary
   vaccine that is one or more of BCG, a killed whole-cell or attenuated MTB vaccine.
   61.     The method of claim 10, wherein the vaccine is administered from about 2 to about 30
   days in advance of the primary vaccine.
 5 62.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the vaccine generates a humoral or
   cellular immune response in the mammal.
   63.     The method of claim 12, wherein the humoral immune response comprises generation
   of antibodies specifically reactive against mycolic acid of the surface of MTB.
   64.     The method of claim 12, wherein the cellular immune response comprises enhanced
10 activity of phagocytic cells and/or generation of memory T cells.
   65.     A non-naturally occurring antibody that is specifically reactive against an immunity
   enhancing antigen (EA) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), wherein the lEA is an
   antigenically altered MTB antigen that has been altered by chemical treatment or has been
   derived from sonicated MTB.
15 66.     The antibody of claim 15, wherein the chemical treatment is ethanol or gluteraldehyde
   treatment.
   67.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 16, wherein the MTB antigen comprises an
   MTB heat shock protein, a peptidoglycan of MTB, a mycolic acid of MTB, a
   lipoarabinomannan of MTB, or a combination thereof.
20 68.     The antibody of claim 17, which is an IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM, or isolated Fab or Fc
   portions.
   69.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 18, which comprises a monoclonal antibody
   which is a mouse or a mouse-human chimera.
   70.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 18, which is fully or partly humanized from a
25 non-human antibody or a polyclonal antibody.
                                                   38

   71.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 20, which when administered to a patient
   generates a cellular immune response.
   72.     The antibody of claim 21, wherein the cellular immune response comprises memory T
   cells.
 5 73.     The antibody of claim 21, wherein the cellular immune response comprises phagocytic
   activity that is enhanced in comparison to the phagocytic activity generated when natural
   antibodies against the whole organism are administered to the patient.
   74.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 23, wherein the lEA comprises an antigen
   specific to alcohol-killed MTB, glutaraldehyde-killed MTB, or sonicated MTB.
10 75.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 24, which is specifically reactive against an
   epitope created upon exposure of an MTB heat shock protein, an MTB surface antigen, an
   MTB internal antigen, an MTB composite peptide, or an MTB/Influenza conjugate peptide to
   an alcohol or a glutaraldehyde.
   76.     The antibody of any one of claims 15 to 25, wherein the lEA comprises an MTB
15 antigen or an MTB microorganism exposed to 70% ethanol or 2% glutaraldehyde activated
   with sodium bicarbonate.
   77.     The use of the antibody of any one of claims 15 to 26 for the manufacture of a
   medicament for the treatment or prevention of infection of Mycobacteriun tuberculosis.
   78.     A hybridoma that produces the monoclonal antibody of claim 19 or claim 20.
20 79.     A method for treating or preventing an MTB infection in a mammal by administering
   non-naturally occurring antibodies of claim 15, that enhances phagocytic activity against
   MTB, wherein the phagocytic activity is enhanced in comparison to natural antibodies
   generated against the whole organism.
   80.     The method of claim 29, wherein the antibodies comprise polyclonal antibodies,
25 monoclonal antibodies or both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies.
                                                  39

   81.     The method of any one of claims 29 to 30, wherein the antibodies are specifically
   reactive against an epitope of peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan, or a
   combination thereof.
   82.     The method of any one of claims 29 to 31, wherein the antibodies serve as an
 5 adjunctive therapy in combination with administration of an antibiotic.
   83.     A method for treating or preventing an MTB infection in a mammal comprising
   administering a cocktail comprising two or more monoclonal antibodies of claim 19 and/or 20.
   84.     The method of claim 33, wherein at least one monoclonal antibody of the cocktail is
   specific for one or more of a heat shock protein, a peptidoglycan, a mycolic acid, a
10 lipoarabinomannan, peptidoglycan, of a mycolic acid, of a lipoarabinomannan, or a
   combination thereof.
   85.     The method of claim 33 or claim 34, wherein the cocktail contains multiple different
   monoclonal antibodies, each different monoclonal antibody specifically reactive against a
   different IEA.
15 86.     An antigen which comprises a non-naturally occurring immunity enhancing epitope of
   MTB, wherein the immunity enhancing epitope is a form of a naturally occurring MTB
   epitope, that has been antigenically altered by chemical treatment or has been derived from
   sonicated MTB.
   87.     The antigen of claim 36, wherein the naturally occurring epitope is an epitope of a heat
20 shock protein, peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan, or a combination thereof.
                                                   40

<removed-date>
                                                                           <U+2736><U+2704><U+260E>
                         <U+2727>    <U+2605><U+271E>        <U+270E>         <U+2726><U+2711>        <U+270C><U+2711>   <U+2711><U+2711>        <U+270D><U+2711>       <U+2712><U+2711>
                         <U+271F><U+2725>   <U+2725>         <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+270D>         <U+270D>    <U+270D>         <U+270D>        <U+270D>
                              <U+2720>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+270C>         <U+270C>        <U+270C>
                         <U+2720>    <U+2706><U+271E>
                         <U+2706><U+271E>   <U+2749>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>    <U+271F>         <U+271F>        <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2749>    <U+271D>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>    <U+261E>         <U+261E>        <U+261E>
                         <U+2716>    <U+2718>
                         <U+2720>    <U+2723><U+271E>
                         <U+271D>    <U+2746>
                         <U+271D>    <U+2721>
                         <U+261B>    <U+271D>
                         <U+2716>    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                <U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                 <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                 <U+273B>
              <U+271A><U+270F>
              <U+2718>
              <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+271D>                                                                                                <U+2726>
              <U+2717>                                                                                                 <U+273A>
              <U+2716>     <U+2726>
              <U+2720>     <U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+2715>    <U+2726>
                    <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2706>     <U+270C>
              <U+2714>                                                                                                     <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E>     <U+2724>                                                                                                    <U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713>   <U+2723>                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2706><U+271E>                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                    <U+271D>                                                                                               <U+2749>
              <U+270D>     <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+2746>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+270E>   <U+261B>                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+270D>    <U+2722>                                                                                               <U+2720>
                    <U+271B>                                                                                               <U+271D>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>     <U+271D>                                                                                               <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+271F>     <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                          <U+2726>
              <U+261E>     <U+2718>                                                                                           <U+270D>   <U+2720>
              <U+261E>     <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+261E>        <U+274B>
              <U+261B>     <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+2721>     <U+2706>
              <U+275A>     <U+261B>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                 <U+2726>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                 <U+2711>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                 <U+2726>
              <U+2746>                                                                                                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                   <U+2726>         <U+2726>         <U+2726>              <U+2726>         <U+2726>        <U+2726>   <U+2726>   <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                   <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>        <U+273A><U+2739>              <U+273A><U+2739>
                                                                      <U+2726><U+2739>     <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>             <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                   <U+2712>         <U+2712>         <U+270D>         <U+270D>     <U+2711>     <U+2711>    <U+270C>              <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                                                 <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                                                           <U+2737><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727>
                             <U+271F>
                                  <U+2605><U+271E>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                <U+273A><U+2711>            <U+273B><U+2711>   <U+273C><U+2711>            <U+25BC><U+2711>        <U+270E><U+2711>        <U+2726><U+270D>
                             <U+2725>    <U+2720>             <U+270D>             <U+270D>    <U+270D>             <U+270D>         <U+270D>         <U+270D>
                             <U+2720>    <U+2706><U+271E>            <U+270C>             <U+270C>    <U+270C>             <U+270C>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>
                             <U+2706><U+271E>   <U+2749>             <U+271F>             <U+271F>    <U+271F>             <U+271F>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>
                             <U+2749>    <U+271D>             <U+261E>             <U+261E>    <U+261E>             <U+261E>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2716>    <U+2718>
                             <U+2720>    <U+2723><U+271E>
                             <U+271D>    <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>    <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>    <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                <U+273B>
              <U+271A><U+270F>
              <U+2719>
              <U+2723>
                    <U+275A>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2717>                                                                                                                                <U+2726><U+273A>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>         <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+271E>        <U+2726>
              <U+2706>         <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2714>         <U+270C>                                                                                                                           <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E>         <U+2724>                                                                                                                                <U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713>                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
              <U+2726><U+270D>
                        <U+2723>
                        <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2749>             <U+2733>
              <U+270D>         <U+271D>                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+273A>       <U+2746>                                                                                                                           <U+2605>         <U+2733>
                        <U+261B>                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
              <U+2711>         <U+2722>                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
              <U+270D>         <U+271B>                                                                                                                           <U+271D>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>         <U+271D>                                                                                                                      <U+2726><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+271F>         <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
              <U+261E>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                           <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                                                          <U+271D>         <U+274B>
              <U+261B>         <U+2720>
              <U+2721>         <U+2706>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>         <U+261B>                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                       <U+2726><U+273A>            <U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+2726><U+273A>            <U+2726><U+2726>        <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>
                                            <U+2739>             <U+2739>                  <U+2739>          <U+2739>     <U+2739>     <U+2739>    <U+2739>               <U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                       <U+2712>             <U+2712>                  <U+270D>             <U+270D>     <U+2711>     <U+2711>    <U+270C>            <U+270C>        <U+2726>        <U+2726>
                                                                                      <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                                                        <U+2738><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727>     <U+2605><U+271E>                     <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+2711>    <U+270D>         <U+2712><U+270D>         <U+273A>    <U+273B><U+270D>
                             <U+271F><U+2725>    <U+2725>                                <U+270D><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+270D>                   <U+270D><U+270D>
                                   <U+2720>                      <U+270D>                        <U+270D>               <U+270D>
                             <U+2720>     <U+2706><U+271E>                     <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+270C>         <U+270C>          <U+270C>    <U+270C>
                                   <U+2749>                      <U+271F>         <U+271F>    <U+271F>         <U+271F>          <U+271F>    <U+271F>
                             <U+271E><U+2706><U+2749>   <U+271D>                      <U+261E>         <U+261E>    <U+261E>         <U+261E>          <U+261E>    <U+261E>
                                   <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2716>
                             <U+2720>     <U+271E><U+2723>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>     <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726><U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270F><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2723>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                         <U+273B>
                    <U+275A>
                    <U+2739>
              <U+271F>
                <U+275A>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2717>         <U+2726>                                                                                                                <U+2726>
              <U+2716>         <U+2726><U+2726>                                                                                                               <U+273A>
              <U+2720>         <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+271E><U+2715>        <U+270C>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2714>         <U+2724>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                                               <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E><U+271E>        <U+2723>                                                                                                                          <U+272A><U+2729>
                        <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2713>
              <U+273B><U+270D>
              <U+270D>
                        <U+271D>
                        <U+2746>
                        <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+270F>        <U+2722>                                                                                                                     <U+2746>         <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+271B>                                                                                                                     <U+2605>
                        <U+271D>                                                                                                                     <U+2721>
              <U+270D>         <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                    <U+2720>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+271F>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                <U+2726><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2706>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
              <U+261E>         <U+2720>                                                                                                                     <U+271E><U+261E>        <U+274B>
              <U+261B>         <U+2706>                                                                                                                     <U+271D>
              <U+2721>         <U+261B>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
              <U+271D><U+271E>                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
              <U+2746>                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>            <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>         <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                             <U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+270D><U+2739>             <U+270D><U+2739>         <U+2711><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                        <U+2712>        <U+2712>                                                           <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                                                   <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                                                           <U+2739><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727>     <U+271E><U+2605>                     <U+273C>
                                                          <U+270D><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+270D>
                                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                         <U+270D><U+270D>
                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                   <U+2712><U+270D>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270D>
                                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                                     <U+2712><U+270D>
                             <U+271F>     <U+2725>
                                                               <U+25BC>
                             <U+2725>     <U+2720>                      <U+270C>    <U+270C>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>       <U+270C>         <U+270C>
                             <U+2720>     <U+271E><U+2706>                     <U+271F>    <U+271F>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>       <U+271F>         <U+271F>
                             <U+271E><U+2706><U+2749>   <U+2749>
                                   <U+271D>                      <U+261E>    <U+261E>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>       <U+261E>         <U+261E>
                             <U+2716>     <U+2718>
                                   <U+2723><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2720>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>     <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
              <U+271C>                                                                                                                            <U+273C>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2605>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271B>
                    <U+275A>                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273B>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270F><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2723>
                    <U+275A>
                    <U+2739>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                        <U+2726><U+2726>                                                                                                                 <U+273A>
                    <U+275A>
              <U+2718>         <U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+271D>        <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2717>         <U+270C>
              <U+2716>         <U+2724>                                                                                                                       <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2715>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2714>
                        <U+2723>
                        <U+2706><U+271E>
                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+272A><U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
              <U+261E>         <U+2746>                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
              <U+261E><U+271E>        <U+261B>                                                                                                                       <U+2746>         <U+2733>
              <U+2713>         <U+2722>                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
              <U+2711>         <U+271B>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>         <U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270D>        <U+271D>                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                        <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+270F>                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+2706>
              <U+273C>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                  <U+2726><U+270D>
              <U+270D><U+270D>        <U+2719><U+261B>                                                                                                                      <U+2720>         <U+274B>
              <U+270C>         <U+2720>                                                                                                                       <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+271F>         <U+2706>                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                            <U+2726><U+2711>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>                <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                             <U+2739>        <U+2739>             <U+270D><U+2739>        <U+270D><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>     <U+2711><U+2739>              <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                        <U+2712>        <U+2712>                                                             <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                                                        <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                   <U+273A><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                               <U+271D><U+2706><U+2763> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2763><U+2660>
                                                                         <U+2749>
                                                          <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2660> <U+2726>    <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2724>              <U+2724>
                                                          <U+270C><U+2726>
                                                               <U+2701> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2701>
                                                          <U+271B>
                                                               <U+275A> <U+271B><U+275A>
                                                          <U+271D>              <U+271D>
                       <U+271C>
                       <U+2706>
                       <U+261B><U+271E>
                       <U+271F>
                       <U+2714>
                       <U+275A>
                       <U+2720>
                       <U+2721>
                       <U+270F>
                            <U+275A>                                                                              <U+2706>
                       <U+271F>                                                                                   <U+271E><U+261B>
                       <U+2723>                                                                                   <U+271F>
                       <U+2714>                                                                                   <U+2714>
                       <U+271B>                                                                                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                           <U+2720>
              <U+270C><U+2726>
                   <U+2701>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+271D>                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+275A>
              <U+271B>
                   <U+275A>   <U+271A><U+270F>
                       <U+2718>
                       <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+271D>        <U+2720>
              <U+2706>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726>
                       <U+2716>
                       <U+2720>
                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                    <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+2725>       <U+271F>                                                                                            <U+2733>
                       <U+2746>
              <U+270C>        <U+2717>
              <U+2724>        <U+273B>    <U+2725>                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                           <U+270C><U+270C>       <U+2701>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                       <U+2726>
                       <U+270C>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                             <U+2768>
              <U+271F>        <U+271E><U+271D>                                                                                  <U+2716>        <U+274B>
              <U+2712><U+2711>       <U+2717>
              <U+270C><U+270C>       <U+273A>
                       <U+273A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+261E>
                       <U+270C>
                       <U+2746>
                            <U+2768>
                       <U+2716>
                       <U+2706>
                       <U+261B>
                       <U+271D>
                       <U+271F>
                       <U+261B>                                                                                   <U+2711>
                       <U+261B>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                <U+2768>
                       <U+2746>                                                                                   <U+2716>
                       <U+271E><U+2706>
                       <U+2713><U+275A>
                                <U+2726>        <U+2726>    <U+2726>      <U+2726>              <U+2726>          <U+2726>        <U+2726>        <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>     <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>         <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                     <U+2739>   <U+270D><U+2739>   <U+270D><U+2739>     <U+2711><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>              <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                <U+2712>                                              <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                    <U+260E>
                                                    <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734><U+2730>              <U+2704><U+2702><U+2746>

                                                                                <U+273B><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                    <U+2716><U+271E>
                                                    <U+2722>
                                                    <U+2746>
                                          <U+271B>         <U+2722><U+271E>
                                          <U+271D>         <U+2749>
                                          <U+271A><U+270F>
                                          <U+2718>         <U+261B>
                                                    <U+2722>
                                          <U+2719><U+261B>
                                          <U+2720>         <U+261E>
                                                         <U+2768>
                                          <U+2706>         <U+2706>
                                          <U+261B>         <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2722><U+271E>                                                                                                       <U+273A>
              <U+2749>                                                                                                        <U+2720>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                        <U+261E>
              <U+2722>                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
              <U+261E>
                <U+2736>                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                   <U+2768>
                       <U+271F>                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+271F>        <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+270C>
                       <U+271D>                                                                                               <U+2722>
              <U+2723>        <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+275A>
              <U+2714>        <U+2749>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                        <U+273C>
                       <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+2722>
                            <U+275A>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                        <U+275A>
              <U+2749>        <U+2716>
              <U+261B>        <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+270C>
              <U+2718>        <U+2721>                                                                                               <U+2723>
              <U+2717>        <U+2723>                                                                                               <U+275A>
              <U+2706>        <U+261B>
                       <U+2721>                                                                                               <U+2711>
              <U+261B>        <U+2716>                                                                                               <U+270C>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                        <U+2718>
              <U+2706>        <U+2718>
                            <U+2768>
                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                       <U+270F>                                                                                               <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B>       <U+271C>                                                                                               <U+2718>
              <U+271F>        <U+271B>                                                                                               <U+2720>
              <U+2714>        <U+271D>
              <U+275A>        <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                              <U+273A>
              <U+273C>
              <U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270C>
                       <U+2718>
                       <U+261B><U+2719>
                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                       <U+2720>    <U+2716><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                 <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2733>
              <U+270D>
                <U+2736>      <U+2720>
                       <U+2717>
                            <U+2739>                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                            <U+2746>
                                                                                                                            <U+261E>        <U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+270C>                                                                                                            <U+261B>
              <U+270C>        <U+2714>                                                                                               <U+273B>    <U+2716><U+271E>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                               <U+2723>    <U+2721>        <U+2701>
              <U+271F>        <U+271D><U+271E>                                                                                              <U+2716>    <U+271B>
              <U+261E>
                       <U+2717>                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2768>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                     <U+274B>
              <U+261B>        <U+2716>                                                                                               <U+2706>
              <U+2721>        <U+2720>
              <U+275A>        <U+2715><U+271E>                                                                                              <U+2712>
                       <U+2706>                                                                                               <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>       <U+2714>                                                                                               <U+2706>
                   <U+2768>
              <U+2605><U+271E>       <U+261E>                                                                                               <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271D>        <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+2722>        <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+2714>        <U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+2716>                                                                                                        <U+2712>
              <U+261B>        <U+261E><U+2713>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+2716>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2746>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                        <U+2746>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+2716><U+271E>                                                                                                       <U+270D>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                        <U+275A>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+2718>
                   <U+2768>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                <U+2726>    <U+2726>         <U+2726>                 <U+2726>         <U+2726>                  <U+2726>         <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>                <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>                 <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                <U+2712>    <U+270D>         <U+270D>
                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                 <U+2711>
                                                             <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272E>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                <U+2746>   <U+2746><U+2702>
                                                                                         <U+272F><U+2731>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+2702><U+2746>
                                                                                                        <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>

<removed-date>
                                      <U+271F>                                     <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                      <U+2723>            <U+271F>
                                      <U+2706>            <U+2723>
                                      <U+2718>            <U+2706>
                                      <U+271D><U+271E>           <U+2718>
                                      <U+2717>            <U+271E><U+271D>
                                      <U+2716>            <U+2717>
                                      <U+2720>            <U+2716>
                                                   <U+2720>
                                      <U+2722>
                                           <U+270E>
                                      <U+261B><U+2749>           <U+2722>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                                   <U+261B><U+2749>
                                      <U+271B><U+2725>           <U+271B>
                                      <U+271B>            <U+2725>
                                      <U+2746>            <U+271B>
                                                   <U+2746>
                                      <U+2749>
                                           <U+271D>
                                                   <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                           <U+271D>
                                           <U+2706>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                           <U+2763>
                                                        <U+2706>
                                      <U+2726>                 <U+2763>
                                      <U+270C>            <U+270C>
                                                                                                     <U+2732><U+272E><U+272C> <U+2731>        <U+2746>           <U+2746><U+2701>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                     <U+2746><U+2746>  <U+2701>            <U+270D><U+270C> <U+2746><U+270C><U+2701>          <U+274B>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2723>                                                                                     <U+2732><U+272D>                   <U+272D> <U+2731>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2746>                       <U+25BC><U+260E>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2714>                                                                                           <U+272C>
              <U+261B><U+271E>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2721> <U+2720><U+274A> <U+261E><U+261B> <U+25CF>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2605>
              <U+2706>                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+272C>   <U+2721> <U+2720><U+271F>    <U+2731><U+272E>  <U+274A>
              <U+261B>
              <U+271C><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2733>
              <U+2726>                                                                                                                                 <U+2733>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>                   <U+272C>            <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                     <U+271E>        <U+275A>   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                   <U+2702>      <U+2702>
                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>    <U+2701>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                                            <U+2723><U+271E>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+270F><U+271D>                                                                                          <U+2737>                <U+272C>               <U+271D>
              <U+2713>
                                                                                                     <U+2706>        <U+275A> <U+271D><U+275A>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2706>    <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
              <U+275B>
              <U+270D>
              <U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+271E>                                                                                                   <U+272E>
              <U+270C><U+270C>                                                                                     <U+2706><U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>       <U+2702>   <U+2701>       <U+274B>
              <U+2720>
              <U+275A>
              <U+270D>                                                                                      <U+2737>            <U+272E>
              <U+25BC>
              <U+2712>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>       <U+2702>   <U+2701>       <U+274B>
              <U+270C>
              <U+261E>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+272E>
              <U+2722><U+271E>
                                                                                                     <U+260E>    <U+2702>       <U+2702>   <U+2701>       <U+274B>
              <U+275A><U+271E>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2714>                                                                                      <U+2704>    <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+272E>   <U+2702>   <U+2701>       <U+274B>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                     <U+2725>    <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+272E>   <U+2702>   <U+2701>       <U+274B>
                       <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>                         <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>              <U+2726><U+2726>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                       <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>                         <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>              <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                       <U+2712>    <U+270D>    <U+270D>                 <U+2711>        <U+2711>                    <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                               <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272E>
                                               <U+260E>                      <U+2746><U+2746><U+2702>
                                                                            <U+272F><U+2731>
                                                                             <U+2704>        <U+2702><U+2746>

