   Abstract
            A gaming machine comprises a display, a game player input means and a game
   controller arranged to control images displayed on the display. The game controller
   controls play of a game in which a winning game result causes a prize to be awarded to
 5 a game player. The game comprises an interactive sequence related to a tournament in
   which a representation of a first video-player of one team is displayed. An action of the
   first video-player to be executed is selected by the game player via the game player
   input means and the game controller selects an action to be performed by another video
   player. Depending on an outcome resulting from the selected actions, an award is made
10 to the game player.
                                                                          9939820_1 (GiMatrsj) P88091.AU.5

                                                  1
                              INTERACTIVE FEATURE GAME
   Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates generally to the field of gaming. More particularly,
   the invention relates to a gaming system, to a gaming machine and to a new game
 5 which may be offered as a main game on a gaming machine but which is particularly
   advantageous as a bonus game.
   Background to the Invention
            Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
   and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop innovative
10 game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to keep players
   amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to attract new
   players.
            Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
   intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new venues.
15 When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will often pay
   close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons. Therefore, gaming
   machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game features which are
   popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales, retaining customers and
   attracting new customers.
20          Throughout this specification the term "game player" is used to indicate a
   person playing the gaming machine on which the invention is implemented, and the
   term "video player" is used to indicate a character in a game provided on the gaming
   machine.
            Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
25 "comprises" or "comprising", are to be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
   any other element, integer or step, group of elements, integers or steps.
            Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
   has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
30 context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
   these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
   field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
   of this application.
                                                                            9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                 2
   Summary of the Invention
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of gaming on a
   gaming machine, the method comprising:
            displaying images indicative of a game on a display;
 5          controlling play of the game, the game comprising an interactive sequence
   related to a tournament wherein a representation of a first video-player of a team is
   displayed, the first video player being randomly selected for display from a plurality of
   video players, and wherein each video player is associated with an indicium
   representing a number of points such that random selection of the first video player
10 determines the number of points;
            selecting, by a game player via a game player input means, an action for the first
   video player to execute;
            selecting, by a game controller, an action to be performed by a second video
   player based on whether the game is a winning game;
15          determining whether the game is a winning game;
            displaying an animation based on the action selected by the game player for the
   first video player to execute and the action selected for the second video player to
   execute, the animation indicative of whether the game is determined to be a winning
   game or not; and
20          awarding a prize to the game player in response to determining that the game is
   a winning game, a value of the prize being based on the number of points represented
   by the indicium.
            The game may comprise one game sequence and the award may then be a prize
   awarded according to the outcome of the single game sequence. However, preferably,
25 the game comprises a plurality of game sequences each of which is awarded points. The
   points may be accumulated and a prize awarded depending on the number of points
   accumulated by one of (a) the end of the game sequences and (b) when some other
   predetermined milestone has been reached.
            The prize to be awarded may be dependent on in which one of a plurality of
30 ranges of values the accumulated points tally falls. The ranges may correspond to
   different categories of jackpot pools with a top range corresponding to a top jackpot
   pool, and the other ranges corresponding to jackpot pools of correspondingly lower
   values, at least the top jackpot being a progressive pool. All the jackpot pools may be
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  3
   progressive pools to which contributions are made for each stake wagered in each game
   played on the system (or machine in the case of a stand alone machine).
            The action selected by the gaming machine in response to the game player
   selected action may be an action by a video-player in the same team or the opposing
 5 team depending on the type of tournament.
            In the case of a particularly preferred example, the game is soccer (football in
   UK and Europe) and the action required to be selected by the game player may be the
   direction in which a penalty goal in the soccer tournament is to be aimed. For example,
   the game player may be given the choice of his or her video-player shooting toward a
10 point just inside any of the four corners of a goal or toward a point in the centre of the
   goal just below the cross bar or just above the ground.
            The controller selected response may be to make a goalkeeper move either in a
   direction to "save" the goal or in a direction to miss saving the goal. Clearly, therefore
   in this case the machine selected response is by a video-player of the opposing team.
15          However in other examples such as American Football (NFL) or Australian
   Rules Football (AFL), the game player's video-player might pass the ball to another,
   game player selected, video-player on the same team, and the machine generated
   response might be to cause the receiving video-player to attempt a kick at a field goal.
   The pass might be successful or unsuccessful and the field goal attempt might also be
20 successful or unsuccessful and the game player may be awarded points or prizes
   depending upon the outcome. In this case the machine generated response involves a
   video-player on the same team as the game player's video-player.
            Each video-player has an indicium associated with it, the indicium being
   representative of a number of points to be awarded to the game player in the event of a
25 successful outcome. For example, each video-player may wear or be represented by a
   shirt with a number on the shirt being representative of the number of points to be
   awarded for a successful outcome. Thus, in the case of the soccer game, the video
   players will have the numbers 1 to 11 corresponding to the eleven team members in a
   soccer team and the game player will be awarded points for a successful shot at goal
30 (i.e. not saved by the goalie) equal to the number on the shirt representative of the
   video-player taking the shot. In the case of other games such as NFL or AFL the
   number on the shirt of each video-player will accord with the rules of the respective
   game. However in a variation of the basic game concept, the numbers carried by the
   video-players might extend beyond the number permitted on the field by the rules of the
35 respective sporting association in order to allow for substitute video-players. As is
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                    4
   common in competitions such as NFL, the number of video-players on a team might be
   much greater than the number of video-players allowed on the field during play. Also
   some famous sportsmen always play in the same numbered shirt, such as Michael
   Jordan who made the number 23 shirt famous. In some embodiments of the game,
 5 video-players may be portrayed as members of one or other of the teams represented in
   the game and will carry the number by which they are known in real life. In such
   embodiments the teams may play in the colours of real sporting teams and whole teams
   of video-players might correspond to real life video-players.
            Each video-player for which the game player selects an action may be allocated
10 by a game controller (eg randomly selected), in which case there may be no weighting
   placed on the outcomes of different video-players. However, it is also possible for the
   game player to select the video-player to take the action, in which case there may be
   weightings associated with the success rates of various video-players. For example a
   video-player with a high number (and hence high score potential), might have a lower
15 probability of success than a video player with a lower number. Of course in the case
   where numbers of real individuals are used, the pseudo-skill of the video-player might
   also be related to statistics of the real life video-player, in which case their skill will in
   all probability not be in any way related to their allocated number. In this case a
   different method of scoring might be required such as allocation of a score, unrelated to
20 their number, to each video-player. The defenders might also have different pseudo
   skill levels in such an example and will typically be allocated by the gaming machine.
            A score allocated to a successful game sequence may also be related to the
   action selected by the game player. For example in an NFL game, the game player
   might have the option of passing to one of three other video-players. These video
25 players might be placed in locations on the field where it is difficult or easy to receive
   the pass and complete the play. Further the video-players might be in locations where it
   is possible to score a touchdown or a field goal. In these instances the score for
   successfully receiving a difficult pass might be greater than for receiving an easier pass.
   The score might also be higher again if the video-player scores a touchdown or a field
30 goal.
            In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, additional bonus points
   are awarded to the game player if an additional bonus event occurs during a game
   sequence. The additional bonus event may be randomly triggered and may be related or
   unrelated to the tournament depicted in the game. An example of an unrelated event
35 might be the appearance of a streaker on the field of play (chased off by the referee or
   umpire). In the soccer embodiment mentioned previously, a bonus of 10 points is
                                                                             9939820_1 (GIMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  5
   awarded if a streaker appears. Of course there might be any number of other different
   unrelated bonus events that might result in bonus points being awarded. An example of
   a related bonus event in the soccer game mentioned above is the awarding of a free
   kick. This is signalled by the referee blowing his whistle and the same video-player
 5 who shot immediately previously being given another shot. The points awarded for a
   successful free kick will preferably be the same as for a normal shot, the bonus being in
   the fact that an extra shot is provided and the potential additional points also contribute
   to the final score that determines which if any of the jackpot prizes the game player will
   win.
10         Examples of other game types and actions that might be provided in
   embodiments of the present invention are:
            1) NFL -where the game player selects the receiver and the score is related to
   the receiver's number. The probability of success may be related to the inverse of the
   points awarded.
15         2) Netball / basketball -where the game player selects the shooting position of
   the video-player. Points may be as per basketball scoring (i.e. 3 points from behind the
   3 point line, 2 points from anywhere else and one point for a penalty shot).
   Alternatively the points might be a combination of the video-player number and the
   shooting position (eg the video-player number might be multiplied by the shooting
20 position score). Additional points might be awarded for a slam dunk.
           3) AFL -The achievement of a goal may result in a 6 point multiplier as
   compared with a behind (when the ball misses the main goal posts but goes inside a
   second wider set of goal posts).
           4) Rugby League (NRL) -similar options for game features as for the NFL game
25 described above.
            5) Cricket -The game player may choose the direction of "shot", and the
   controller can choose if the ball is caught by an opposing video-player. The shot
   direction may decide (or contribute to a decision as to whether a successful shot will
   achieve) a 6 point multiplier (over the boundary), a 4 point multiplier (hits boundary), a
30 two point multiplier (hit clear of opponents) or no multiplier (hit towards an opponent).
   There might also be a weighting on the degree of accuracy with which the video-player
   can complete each of the potential shot selections.
           6) Baseball -The batter may achieve a home run or first, second or third base run
   with appropriate multipliers (eg 4, 1, 2, 3, respectively). Over the fence would be a
35 home run, and as for Cricket a catch would equal no points.
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                6
           7) Other games with rules similar to soccer would include ice hockey, hockey,
   water polo and polo.
           8) Games with local popularity such as Gaelic Football might be used in
   appropriate jurisdictions.
 5         9) Novelty games might also be incorporated into some embodiments such as
   jousting, or roller game.
           The game of the present invention may be provided as a base game on an
   electronic gaming machine. However it will preferably be provided as a feature game
   awarded to pay ajackpot or bonus prize. The game, when offered as a feature or bonus
10 game, can be triggered by conventional combinational triggers. The trigger condition
   may be machine generated such as a particular number of scatter symbols appearing in
   the base game, or it may be system generated, such as a "HyperlinkTM n trigger which is
   a random trigger unrelated to the game outcome of a base game being played at that
   time on any one of the gaming machines connected to the gaming server.
15 Brief Description of the Drawings
           An embodiment of the invention is now described by way of example with
   reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
           Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a first style of gaming machine, suitable
   for use in systems implementing embodiments of the present invention;
20         Figure 2 shows a perspective view of a second style of gaming machine, suitable
   for use in systems implementing embodiments of the present invention;
           Figure 3 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machines of
   Figures 1 and 2;
           Figure 4 shows a block diagram of a system implementing an embodiment of
25 the present invention; and
           Figures 5 to 32 show screen images at various stages in the play of a game
   embodying the present invention.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
           Referring to Fig. 1 a typical gaming machine is illustrated of a type to which the
30 present invention can be applied. The machine illustrated in Fig. 1 is of a type that
   allows credit input by insertion of coins or bills but the invention can also be applied to
   machines that additionally, or only, allows credit input by transfer of credit from a
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  7
   central cashier or from another gaming machine. In Fig. 1, reference numeral 10
   generally designates a gaming machine, including a game or games to be played by a
   game player of the machine. The machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display in
   the form of a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played. The video display
 5 unit 14 may be implemented as a cathode ray screen device, a liquid crystal display, a
   plasma screen, or the like. The game 16 as illustrated in Fig. 1 is a spinning reel game
   which simulates the rotation of a number of spinning reels 18. However many other
   styles of game are also possible.
            A mid-trim 20 of the machine 10 optionally houses a game player input means,
10 such as, for example, a keypad 22, for enabling a game player to play the game 16. The
   mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24.1
   and a bill collector 24.2. As illustrated in Fig. 2, some gaming machines use a touch
   screen for game player input, in which case the keypad 22 may not be required. Instead
   the keys of the keypad 22 of the Fig. 1 machine would be represented as a graphic
15 image 29 on the screen 16 and touch sensors 38 (refer to Fig. 3) located adjacent the
   screen surface detect touching of the screen 16 to record game player input. In all other
   respects, the machines of Figs. 1 and 2 are essentially functionally identical.
            The machine 10 of Figs. 1 and 2 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is
   carried. The artwork 28 includes pay-tables, details of bonus awards, etc. The artwork
20 28 in the top box 26 may optionally be displayed on a video display such as a CRT or
   LCD panel.
            A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
            Referring to Fig. 3 of the drawings, a control circuit 32 of the gaming machine
25 10 is illustrated. A program which implements the game and game player interface is
   run on a processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a
   controller 36 that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input
   signals from game player inputs such as the optional keypad 22 (see Fig. 1) or the
   optional sensors 38 associated with the pseudo-keypad 29 (see Fig. 2). The sensors 38,
30 if used, include touch sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14 and are
   associated with the representation of pseudo-buttons of the keypad 29, displayed on the
   display 16, thereby replicating the buttons of the keypad 22. The controller 36 also
   receives input pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a game player
   has provided sufficient credit to commence playing. The credit input mechanism 24
35 may comprise one or more of several credit input devices such as the coin input chute
   24.1, the bill collector 24.2, and a card reader 24.3 or any suitable other type of
                                                                            9939820_1 (GIMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  8
   validation device. In some embodiments of the present invention, there may be a game
   player tracking input device, such as the card reader 24.3, that can be used to associate a
   particular game player with a particular game player profile and, optionally, a credit
   held in a system 100, as described in greater detail below. Game player tracking does
 5 not require knowing the actual identity of the game player but is only used to associate
   the game player with a particular game player profile and/or credit. This is achieved in
   the preferred embodiment by using a game player tracking card 27 which is a simple
   magnetic stripe card encoded with a unique code that is issued to the game player either
   when the game player enters the establishment or when the game player establishes a
10 credit in the system and is read by the card reader 24.3. However other methods of
   game player identification can be employed in tracking systems such as PIN s,
   scannable tags of various known types such as magnetic stripe cards, smart cards, etc.
   iris recognition, finger prints or other bio-sensor systems.
            Finally, the controller 36 optionally drives a payout mechanism which, for
15 example, may be ticket printer 41 or a coin hopper 40 for feeding coins to the coin tray
   30 to make a pay out to a game player when the game player wishes to redeem his or
   her credit. Again, however, in embodiments of the present invention, a payout
   mechanism is not essential as the game player may remove the credit held in the
   machine by transferring it to another machine or to a cashier.
20          In an embodiment of the present invention, a plurality of the machines 10 form
   part of a gaming system 100 (Fig. 4) and are linked via a computer network 63 to a
   gaming server or system controller 54 which controls the network 63. Each gaming
   machine is connected to the network 63 by a system interface 51 and network
   connection 52. The network connections 52 are preferably connected to the remainder
25 of the network 63 via a hub 53 although other networking architectures such as daisy
   chaining may also be employed. A cashier's station 55 is optionally connected, either to
   the system controller 54 directly, as illustrated in Fig. 4, or alternatively via the network
   hub 53. The cashier's terminal may be replaced, or supplemented, by an electronic
   cashier's terminal or cash in/cash out terminal 59 comprising a controller 56 to which is
30 connected a game player controlled touch screen 58 and a card reader 57. The
   electronic cashier's terminal 59 uses EFT transactions to debit or credit a game player's
   account at a financial institution to establish or refund a game player's credit in the
   gaming system 100.
            Game player profiles are saved on the system controller 54 and credits can be
35 applied to and cleared from the machines 10 via the network 63. The credits can either
   be established at the cashier's station 55 or the terminal 59 and transferred to the
                                                                             9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                 9
   machine 10 or, instead, a game player might already have credits in another machine 10
   in the network 63 and which the game player may wish to transfer to a new machine
   that he or she wishes to play.
            To facilitate the establishment and use of game player profiles to enhance game
 5 player enjoyment and to enable the secure transfer of cash to a machine 10, each
   machine 10 is provided with the card reader 24.3 and the game player is issued with a
   game player tracking card 27 either when entering the premises or when establishing
   credit in the system. This tracking card 27 is inserted into the card reader 24.3 of a
   machine 10 by the game player after the game player has established a credit on the
10 system 100 and has had the credit transferred to the desired machine 10. Alternatively,
   the card 27 is a membership card permanently in the possession of the game player and
   the game player establishes a credit in an account associated with the game player's
   membership record. By inserting the card 27 into the card reader 24.3 of the machine he
   or she intends to play, the game player identifies himself or herself to the machine 10
15 and establishes that a credit held in the system 100 belongs to the game player. In the
   illustrated embodiment, the card reader 24.3 is not connected directly to the machine's
   controller 36 but to the system interface 51 which is connected to the network 63 via
   interconnection 52.
            While embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example in the
20 context of the gaming machine 10 and the gaming system 100 described above, it will
   be recognised that the invention is equally applicable to other game playing apparatus
   and environments such as internet gaming where games are played on a personal
   computer connected to an internet gaming website, on a hand held device such as a
   Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) or Mobile Phone, on a stand alone hand held device
25 or, any other suitable gaming environment.
            The present invention relates particularly to a new game type, an example of
   which is described below. The game of the invention can be provided as a main game
   of the gaming machine 10. However, in the example described below, the game is
   provided as a bonus game which is triggered by a random trigger unrelated to the
30 outcome of a current base game. The random triggering mechanism of the preferred
   embodiment is known as the "Hyperlink"" system and is described in Accepted
   Australian Patent Application No 754689 incorporated herein by reference. The
   advantage of the "Hyperlink TM , system is that the trigger is applicable with any base
   game and allows progressive jackpot systems to be implemented on networks to which
35 machines of different denominations are connected. In the illustrated example, the
   bonus game relates to a soccer tournament and has a soccer theme. The bonus game is
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  10
   an interactive game where the game player is afforded the opportunity to have a series
   of video-players of a soccer team take kicks at goal with each kick being worth a
   predetermined number of points as will be described in greater detail below.
           In the present example, the base game is a relatively standard pseudo spinning
 5 reel video game, for which a part of a base game screen is illustrated in Fig. 5. The base
   game is essentially a standard spinning reel game, does not form part of the invention
   and will not be described in detail here. The occurrence of a triggering event for a
   bonus game is indicated by a banner 70 which pops up at the end of an instance of the
   base game to signal the imminent commencement of a bonus game. After the banner 70
10 appears, a referee 71 appears running across the screen, as illustrated in Fig. 6. This
   serves to further draw the game player's attention to the imminent commencement of
   the bonus game.
           The bonus game comprises a series of game play sequences as illustrated in
   Figs. 7 to 28. Referring to Fig. 7, the game player is presented with an image of a video
15 player of an opposing soccer team. More particularly, the video-player is a goalkeeper,
   or "goalie", 72 who is depicted in front of a set of goal posts 73, with a ball 74 placed
   ready for kicking.
           In a first sequence of the bonus game, a first video-player of the game player's
   team is randomly selected by the game controller 36 of the gaming machine 10 to take a
20 kick at goal. The video-player selected by the game controller 36 is depicted on the
   display by way of that video-player's shirt 75. The number appearing on the shirt 75 is
   representative of the number of points to be awarded to the game player if a successful
   outcome results, i.e. if a goal is scored. In this case, the game controller 36 has selected
   a video-player whose shirt 75 has the numeral 2 on its back indicating that video-player
25 number 2 in the team will take the shot at goal. As shown in Fig. 8 of the drawings, a
   message appears advising the game player that the current action, if successful, will
   have a points value of 2. The message further advises the game player that the game
   player must select one of six buttons (43, 44, 45, 46, 47 & 48 in Figs. 1 & 2) of the
   keypad 22 or the graphic image 29, as the case may be, to indicate the direction in
30 which the video-player is to kick the ball. The six directions corresponding to the six
   buttons are the top left, centre or right, or bottom left, centre or right of the goal.
           When the game player makes a selection by pressing one of the six buttons, an
   animation of the ball flying through the air is played to indicate that the ball has been
   kicked. As shown in Fig. 9 of the drawings, the ball 74 is seen in the goal area behind
35 the posts after the kick with the goalie 72 on the ground having failed to save the goal
                                                                              9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  11
   resulting in a successful outcome for the game player. A score of two points is added to
   a jackpot score meter 76.
            In this embodiment, the game player has a 58% chance of scoring a goal in each
   of the game sequences and a random number generator of the game controller 36
 5 decides whether the game player will be successful or not. The game player's selection
   of the direction in which the kick is to be taken selects the video sequence illustrating
   the trajectory of travel of the ball towards the goal and, once the game player has
    selected a direction, the game controller 36 randomly decides, with a 58% weighting
   towards the game player, whether or not the goalie 72 will save the goal. In the case of
10 a determination that an unsuccessful outcome is to result, the game controller 36 then
    selects a sequence randomly from two possible sequences, one being that the goalie 72
   dives in the correct direction and punches the ball away and the other being that the
   goalie 72 dives in the correct direction and catches the ball. In the case where the video
   player scores a goal, the machine choses a direction other than the direction chosen by
15 the game player for the goalie 72 to dive and plays an animation of the goalie 72 diving
   away from the ball.
            Once the first sequence of the bonus game has been completed as seen in Figs.
   7, 8 & 9, a second sequence commences as illustrated in Figs. 10, 11 & 12. In this
   instance the sequence is identical except that the shirt 75 of the video-player randomly
20  selected by the game controller 36 carries the number 6 and hence the points being
   played for are 6. It is to be noted that the selection of the number on the video-player's
    shirt 75 is made without replacement, i.e. the number on the shirt in any bonus game is
   not repeated except in the case of a free kick, described in greater detail below.
            As illustrated in Fig. 12, the game player in the second sequence has scored a
25 goal and has been awarded a further 6 points giving a total of 8 points as shown on the
   jackpot score meter 76.
            There are several additional random bonus features provided in this embodiment
   of the game, one of which is the appearance of a streaker 77 (Fig. 13) running across
   the screen followed, as shown in Fig. 14, by the referee 71 blowing his whistle and the
30 appearance of a banner 78 indicating that an extra bonus has been won. In this instance
   a streaker bonus is worth 10 points and after the referee 71 progresses off the screen, as
   30 shown in Fig. 15, the extra bonus score is added to the jackpot score meter 76 as
   illustrated in Fig. 16. The screen display is, apart from the change to the amount on the
   jackpot score meter 76, the same as it was prior to the occurrence of the streaker 71. It
35  should be noted that while the streaker bonus sequence has been illustrated here as
   occurring after the second game sequence of the game, it is randomly generated and
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                 12
   may not occur in every instance of the game. When it does occur, it will occur at a
   random time. In effect, there is a fixed 5% probability of the streaker bonus occurring at
   the end of each game sequence of the bonus game.
            The third sequence of the bonus game is illustrated in Figs. 17, 18 & 19, in
 5 which a video-player with a shirt 75 carrying the number 11 takes a shot at goal. As
   indicated in Fig. 19, the game player has been unsuccessful as the goalie 72 has saved a
   goal being scored by punching the ball away. As a result, no bonus points are awarded.
            As illustrated in Fig. 20, a second additional random bonus feature is provided
   as part of the game in which the video-player, after having taken a kick as part of the
10 normal bonus game sequence, is awarded a free kick as shown by a banner 79. A free
   kick may be awarded whether or not the previous kick in the normal bonus game
   sequence was successful and will occur with a 20% probability after each game
   sequence. In the free kick sequence, the video-player which took the last kick will be
   awarded the free kick and hence the potential score for the free kick in this example is
15 11. However, in other instances where a different video-player had taken the previous
   kick, the score will correspond to that video-player's shirt number. Fig. 21 illustrates the
   screen prior to the game player selecting a direction for the ball to be kicked and Fig. 22
   shows that in this case the video-player has successfully kicked the ball to the centre of
   the goals while the goalie 72 has moved in the wrong direction thereby missing the
20 save. Due to the successful outcome, the game player has scored 11 points which are
   added to the total on the jackpot score meter 76.
            The two sequences shown in Figs. 23 to 28 follow the same pattern as the first
   three games sequences and illustrate fourth and fifth shot sequences respectively. In the
   illustrated examples these shots were taken by video-player 4 and video-player 10
25 respectively. In the examples given, the game player has managed to score a goal in
   each case and 14 points in total are added to the jackpot score meter 76.
            Once the game player has been given five bonus game sequences, the jackpot
   score on the meter 76 is compared with a series of score ranges or bands and an
   appropriate jackpot prize is awarded. These bands or ranges are:
30 0-34 Mini jackpot;
   35 -54 Minor jackpot;
   55 -64 Major jackpot; and
   65 upwards Grand jackpot.
                                                                           9939820_1 (GiMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                  13
            In this case, because a total of 43 points were scored, a minor jackpot has been
   won as indicated by the trophy 80 appearing in the middle of the screen as shown in
   Fig. 29. It is to be noted that, even if the game player obtains zero points after
   completion of all of the sequences of the bonus game, the game player is still awarded
 5 the mini jackpot.
            Once the hyperlink progressive feature has been completed, the gaming machine
   returns to the base game that was being played immediately prior to the hyperlink
   sequence commencing, and it will be noted in Fig. 30 that the base game screen now
   has a message at the bottom indicating that the game player should call an attendant to
10 claim their progressive prize which is a level 3 win. It will be noted that no prize has
   been added to the credit and win counters at the top of the screen and this is because on
   this occasion the gaming establishment pays progressive jackpots directly to the game
   player and not via the machine. Of course it would be possible to add the jackpot prize
   to the credit meter if such an arrangement is allowable in the particular jurisdiction and
15 is the method of operation preferred by the gaming establishment. In the case of manual
   pay, the machine will lock in the state shown in Fig. 30 until the attendant has come and
   paid the jackpot at which time the attendant will unlock the machine and the screen will
   then display the image shown in Fig. 31 indicating that the hyperlink feature has been
   completed. As illustrated in Fig. 32, the machine will then progress to a screen where it
20 invites the game player to recommence playing the base game.
            It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
25 illustrative and not restrictive.
                                                                            9939820_1 (GIMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                 14
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.       A method of gaming on a gaming machine, the method comprising:
            displaying images indicative of a game on a display;
            controlling play of the game, the game comprising an interactive sequence
 5 related to a tournament wherein a representation of a first video-player of a team is
   displayed, the first video player being randomly selected for display from a plurality of
   video players, and wherein each video player is associated with an indicium
   representing a number of points such that random selection of the first video player
   determines the number of points:
10          selecting, by a game player via a game player input means, an action for the first
   video player to execute;
            determining whether the game is a winning game;
            selecting, by a game controller, an action to be performed by a second video
   player based on whether the game is a winning game;
15          displaying an animation based on the action selected by the game player for the
   first video player to execute and the action selected for the second video player to
   execute, the animation indicative of whether the game is determined to be a winning
   game or not; and
            awarding a prize to the game player in response to determining that the game is
20 a winning game, a value of the prize being based on the number of points represented
   by the indicium.
   2.       The method of claim I wherein the game comprises a plurality of game
   sequences each of which is awarded points.
   3.       The method of claim 2 wherein the points are accumulated and a prize awarded
25 depending on the number of points accumulated by one of (a) the end of the game
   sequences and (b) when another predetermined milestone has been reached.
   4.       The method of claim 3 comprising providing a plurality of accumulated points
   ranges, wherein the prize to be awarded is dependent on the accumulated points range
   in which the accumulated points falls.
                                                                          9939820_1 (GIMamers) P88091 AU.5

                                                 15
   5.       The method of claim 4 wherein the accumulated points ranges correspond to
   different categories of jackpot pools with a top range corresponding to a top jackpot
   pool, and the other ranges corresponding to jackpot pools of correspondingly lower
   values, at least the top jackpot being a progressive pool.
 5 6.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the action selected by
   the game controller is an action by a video-player in the same team or the opposing
   team depending on the type of tournament.
   7.       The method of claim 6 wherein the action selected by the game player for the
   first video player is the direction in which a penalty goal in a soccer tournament is to be
10 aimed.
   8.       The method of claim 7 wherein the selected action by the game controller for
   the second video player is to make a goalkeeper move either in a direction to "save" the
   goal or in a direction to miss saving the goal.
   9.       The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein each video-player for
15 which the game player selects an action is allocated by a game controller.
   10.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the game player selects the first
   video-player to take the action.
   11.      The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein a score allocated to a
   successful game sequence is also related to the action selected by the game player.
20 12.      The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein additional bonus points
   are awarded to the game player if an additional bonus event occurs during a game
   sequence.
                                                                            9939820_1 (GiMatrsj) P88091.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
