ll:\szp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16024930 _.docx-I7 /t2017
                                                                       ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions are provided for treatment of disorders associated with aberrant
adrenal cortex cell behavior, including (but not limited to) treatment of adrenocortical
carcinoma (ACC), Cushing's syndrome and/or pituitary ACTH excess (Cushing's Disease).
Such              methods               involve              administration of an effective amount N-(2,6-bis(1
methylethyl)phenyl)-N'-((1 -(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea
hydrochloride to the patient.

HI:\szp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\15981688_l.docx-15 /t12017
                             COMPOUNDS AND METHODS FOR TREATING ABERRANT
                                                   ADRENOCORTICAL CELL DISORDERS
                 This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013235535, the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
           [0001]               This application claims priority from Provisional Application No. 61/614,269
filed on March 22, 2012, which application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
Technical Field
           [0002]               Methods and compositions are provided for treatment of disorders associated
with aberrant adrenal cortex cell behavior.
Description of the Related Art
           [0003]               The adrenal gland is made up of two parts: the outer cortex in which certain
hormones are produced, and the inner medulla which is part of the nervous system, wherein
nervous system hormones are produced. The cortex is devoted to the synthesis of
corticosteroid and androgen hormones. Specific cortical cells produce particular hormones
including aldosterone, Cortisol, and androgens such as androstenedione. Adrenocortical
tumors originate in the cortex.
           [0004]               There are two main types of adrenal cortex tumors: adenomas which are
benign and adrenocortical carcinoma which are malignant. Adenomas in many people
produce no symptoms, but in some instances the tumors lead to excess hormones production.
Adrenocortical carcinoma can produce the hormones Cortisol, aldosterone, estrogen, or
testosterone, as well as other hormones. Adrenocortical carcinomas (ACC) are rare, highly
malignant tumors. In women the tumor often releases these hormones, which can lead to
male characteristics. The excess hormones may or may not cause symptoms. In general,
adenomas are treated by removal of the adrenal gland or with therapeutic intervention.
Likewise, adrenocortical carcinomas can lead to hormone production that can cause
noticeable body changes such as weight gain, fluid build-up, early puberty in children, or
                                                                -1 -

excess facial or body hair in women. While the cause is unknown, adrenocortical carcinoma
is most common in children younger than 5 and adults in their 30s and 40s. Adrenocortical
carcinoma may be linked to a cancer syndrome that is passed down through families
(inherited). Both men and women can develop this tumor.
      [0005]     Various stages of adrenocortical carcinomas are defined as follows. Stage I is
cancer of the adrenal gland that is smaller than 5 centimeters (smaller than 2 inches) and is
found in the adrenal gland only. Stage II is cancer of the adrenal gland that is larger than 5
centimeters (about 2 inches) and is found in the adrenal gland only. Stage III is cancer of the
adrenal gland that has spread into fat and lymph nodes near the adrenal gland. Stage IV is
cancer of the adrenal gland that has spread to fat or organs and to lymph nodes near the
adrenal gland or to other parts of the body, such as lungs, liver, bones, and abdomen.
      [0006]     While the understanding of the disease has advanced with the advent of
modem molecular techniques, the prognosis of patients with advanced disease, who represent
about half of the diagnoses, remains dismal. Targeted therapies are in clinical development,
but whether they will yield breakthroughs in the management of the disease is yet unknown
(Hammer, G.D. and T. Else, eds., Adrenocortical Carcinoma,Basic Science and Clinical
Concepts, 2011, New York: Springer).
      [0007]     The sole FDA-approved therapeutic agent for ACC is mitotane (o.p'-DDD), a
derivative of the insecticide DDT, discovered in 1950s, when it was found to destroy the
adrenal cortex of dogs. Despite half a century of use, its molecular mechanism remains
unclear. The drug requires chemical transformation into an active, free radical form, which
then induces lipid peroxidation and cell death. Mitotane also suppresses steroidogenesis and
inhibits other cytochrome P450-class enzymes (Id.).
      [0008]     Whereas mitotane is widely used for the treatment of ACC, it has increased
progression-free survival in only one-quarter to one-third of patients. For the patients that
derive a therapeutic benefit, the effect is transient, delaying disease progression by an average
of five months (Id.). Mitotane has numerous problems as a therapeutic agent, making its use
difficult, and requiring close monitoring of patients. These problems include:
              e Severe side effects: practically all patients experience gastrointestinal
         dysfunctions and CNS symptoms. Mitotane causes elevated cholesterol and
                                                  2

         triglycerides, lowered thyroid hormone function, elevated liver enzymes, and
         leukopenia (Id.);
               e Narrow therapeutic window: 14 mg/1 is required for therapeutic benefit, 20
         mg/1 is toxic (Hermsen, I.G., et al., J. Clin. Endocrinol.Metab., 96(6):1844-51, 2011);
         and
               e Poor ADME properties: The dose of mitotane must be frequently adjusted to
         achieve an adequate rate of loading without causing side effects. Even with a high
         drug intake by patients, it takes several months to reach target therapeutic blood
         levels. The drug accumulates in fat tissue, with an elimination half-life of months.
         Mitotane interferes with the metabolism of other drugs, making medical management
         of the many debilitating symptoms and additional chemotherapy of ACC patients
         challenging (Kroiss, M., et al., Clin. Endocrinol.(Oxf) 75(5):585-91, 2011; van Erp,
         N.P, Eur. J. Endocrinol. 164(4):621-6, 2011).
      [0009]     Because of the multiple limitations of mitotane as a therapy for ACC, a
replacement with better efficacy and safety profile is highly desirable for the management of
this deadly disease.
BRIEF SUMMARY
      [0010]     In brief, methods are disclosed for treating various disorders or conditions by
administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1-methylethyl)phenyl)-N'-((1
(4- (dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride (ATR- 101) to a patient,
wherein such methods include treating adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), benign adenoma,
increased hormone production, metastatic adrenocortical carcinoma, congenital adrenal
hyperplasia, Cushing's syndrome, excess cortisol production, symptoms associated with
excess cortisol production, hyperaldosteronism or 21-hydroxylase deficiency, as well as
reducing adrenocortical tumor size.
      [0011]     In one embodiment, a method is disclosed for treating ACC in a patient
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0012]     In another embodiment, a method is disclosed for treating Cushing's
syndrome in a patient comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR
101 to the patient.
                                                  3

      [0013]     In another embodiment, the above methods further comprise administering a
second therapeutic agent. In a further embodiment, a second therapeutic agent is a
chemotherapeutic agent, mitotane, mifepristone, metformin, everolimus, a targeting agent, an
adrenolysis agent, or an IGFR antagonist.
      [0014]     In another embodiment, a method is disclosed for inhibiting aberrant adrenal
hormone production in a patient comprising administering an effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient to inhibit hormone production. In a further embodiment, the method further
comprises administering a second therapeutic agent. In yet a further embodiment, the
hormone is a mineralocorticoid (including aldosterone), a glucocorticoid (including cortisol),
or an androgen (including androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone, and adrenosterone).
      [0015]     In a further embodiment, the above methods comprise administering ATR-101
by oral administration.
      [0016]     In a further embodiment, the patient treated by the above methods is
administered ATR-101 one, two, three, or four times daily.
      [0017]     In further embodiments, the patient treated by the above methods suffers from
a condition selected from the group consisting of Cushing's syndrome; excess cortisol
production; ACTH excess that results in adrenal cortisol excess; pituitary ACTH excess
(Cushing's disease); ectopic ACTH syndrome; primary adrenal cortisol excess; or ACTH
independent macronodular hyperplasia (always bilateral); or congenital adrenal hyperplasia
(including 11 hydroxylase deficiency, 21-hydroxylase deficiency, hyperaldosteronism (Conn
syndrome), or bilateral adrenal hyperplasia).
      [0018]     In another embodiment, a composition is disclosed comprising ATR-101 and a
second therapeutic agent in a unit dose. In a further embodiment, the second therapeutic
agent is a chemotherapeutic agent. In a further embodiment, the second therapeutic agent is
selected from the group consisting of: mifepristone; a chemotherapeutic agent; metformin;
everolimus; a targeting agent; an adrenolysis agent; and an IGFR antagonist.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0019]     Figure 1 depicts the effects of ATR-101 treatment on the sizes of H295R cell
line xenotransplants in SCID mice. The solid lines with filled symbols represent mice
administered 300 mg/kg/day ATR-101. The dashed lines and open symbols represent mice
                                                  4

administered vehicle. During the first 8 days of administration, ATR-101 was administered
in 10% DMSO, 0.9% NaCl, 0.5% CMC pH 3.9, 0.2% Tween-20 (Formulation I).
Subsequently, ATR-101 was administered in 0.5% CMC pH 1.9, 0.2% Tween-20
(Formulation II).
      [0020]    Figure 2 depicts the effects of ATR-101 treatment on the sizes of H295R cell
line xenotransplants in SCID mice. The solid lines with filled symbols represent mice
administered 300 mg/kg/day ATR-101. The dashed lines and open symbols represent mice
administered vehicle. ATR-101 was administered from two batches prepared separately in
10% DMSO, 0.9% NaCl, 0.5% CMC pH 3.9, 0.2% Tween-20 for days 1-6 and for the
remainder of the experiment.
      [0021]    Figure 3 depicts the results of the post-mortem analysis of the tumors and
organs of mice from the treatment and control groups, and shows that the tumors of surviving
mice in the treatment group were significantly smaller than the tumors of mice in the control
group.
      [0022]    Figure 4 depicts xenograft size as a function of time after start of oral
administration of ATR-101 (triangles) versus control mice treated with vehicle (circles).
      [0023]    Figure 5 depicts xenograft size as a function of time after start of oral
administration of ATR-101 in combination with metformin (spheres) versus control mice
treated with vehicle (circles).
      [0024]    Figure 6 depicts xenograft size as a function of time after start of oral
administration of ATR-101 in combination with everolimus (squares) versus control mice
treated with vehicle (circles).
      [0025]    Figure 7 depicts the effects of ATR-101 administration on ACC xenograft
establishment. Randomized cohorts of 10 mice injected with H295R cells were administered
700 mg/kg/day ATR-101 for 4 days followed by 300 mg/kg/day ATR-101 or vehicle by
gavage beginning 14 days after cell injection. The sizes of the xenografts were measured
three times each week. The data show the mean and the standard deviation of the xenograft
volume (ellipsoid model) at different times after injection.
      [0026]    Figure 8 depicts the urinary cortisol levels in mice with H295R
xenotransplants treated with vehicle or ATR-101. Randomized cohorts of 10 mice injected
with H295R cells were administered 700 mg/kg/day ATR-101 for 4 days followed by 300
                                                  5

mg/kg/day ATR-101 or vehicle by gavage beginning 14 days after cell injection. Urine was
collected on the days indicated beginning at 22 days after cell injection (8 days after the start
of ATR-101 or vehicle administration), and the cortisol levels were determined using a
DetectX* cortisol assay kit (Arbor Assays).
      [0027]    Figure 9 depicts the effect of high dose of ATR-101 on sizes of H295R cell
line xenotransplants in SCID mice. Xenograft size is shown as a function of time after start
of oral administration of 1,000 mg/kg/day ATR-101 (squares) versus control mice treated
with vehicle (diamonds).
      [0028]    Figure 10 depicts xenograft weights in mice treated with 1,000 mg/kg/day
ATR-101 compared with vehicle treated mice.
      [0029]    Figure 11 depicts the effects of ATR-101 on H295R cell (A) ATP levels and
(B) on reduction of resazurin. The indicated concentrations of ATR-101 were added to
H295R cells (20,000 cells/well for the ATP assay and 40,000 cells/well for the resazurin
assay plated the day before in serum-free media). The bars show the mean luminescence and
fluorescence intensities of cells treated with the concentrations of ATR-101 indicated to the
right of the graphs for the time indicated below the bars.
      [0030]    Figures 12A-F depicts the effects of cholesterol depletion on the changes in
ATP levels caused by ATR-101 in H295R cells. The indicated concentrations of ATR-101
were added to H295R cells that were cultured 4 days in serum-free media followed by: (A) 4
hours with ATR-101; (B) 4 hours with ATR-101 and M PCD (2mM); or (C) 4 hours with
ATR-101 and MPCD (2mM) complexed with cholesterol. The bars show the mean
luminescence signals of lysates prepared after 4 hour incubation with ATR- 101. The
indicated concentrations of ATR-101 were added to H295R cells: (D) depicts the effect of
ATR-101 on resazurin reduction in H295R cells; (E) depicts the effect of ATR-101 and
MPCD (2mM) on resazurin reduction in H295R cells; and (F) depicts the effect of ATR-101
and MPCD (2mM) complexed with cholesterol on resazurin reduction in H295R cells.
      [0031]    Figure 13 depicts the basal and ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels in male dogs
administered 0, 0.3, 3, or 30 mg/kg/day of ATR-101 measured at 1, 7, 14, and 28 days during
treatment and during recovery period.
                                                 6

      [0032]     Figure 14 depicts the basal and ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels in female
dogs administered 0, 0.3, 3, or 30 mg/kg/day of ATR-101 measured at 1, 7, 14, and 28 days
during treatment and during recovery period.
      [0033]     Figures 15A-E depict the histopathology of adrenal glands of dogs
administered high dose of ATR-101 vs. control animals.
      [0034]     Figures 16A-C depict adrenal weights in male dogs after administration of 0,
0.3, 3, or 30 mg/kg/day of ATR-101 for 28 days. Figure 16A depicts the dose-related
changes in absolute adrenal weight. Figure 16B depicts the dose-related changes in adrenal
to-body weight ratio (Adrenal:BW(%)). Figure 16C depicts the dose-related changes in
adrenal-to-brain weight ratio (Adrenal:BrW).
      [0035]     Figures 17A-C depicts adrenal weights in female dogs after administration of
0, 0.3, 3, or 30 mg/kg/day of ATR-101 for 28 days. Figure 17A depicts the dose-related
changes in absolute adrenal weight. Figure 17B depicts the dose-related changes in adrenal
to-body weight ratio (Adrenal:BW(%)). Figure 17C depicts the dose-related changes in
adrenal-to-brain weight ratio (Adrenal:BrW).
      [0036]     Figure 18 depicts tissue distribution of ATR-101 in female rats given 100
mg/kg/day for 7 days. Values shown are mean + standard deviation, N = 3.
      [0037]     Figure 19 depicts tissue distribution of ATR-101 in female dogs given 3
mg/kg/day for 7 days. Values shown are mean + standard deviation, N = 3.
      [0038]     Figure 20 depicts tissue distribution of ATR-101 in rats and dogs as a
percentage of plasma concentration. Values shown are mean + standard deviation, N = 3.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Definitions
      [0039]     As used herein, "treatment" includes therapeutic applications to slow or stop
progression of a disorder associated with aberrant adrenocortical cellular activity,
prophylactic application to prevent development of a disorder associated with aberrant
adrenocortical cellular activity, and reversal of a disorder associated with aberrant
adrenocortical cellular activity. Reversal of a disorder differs from a therapeutic application
which slows or stops a disorder in that with a method of reversing, not only is progression of
                                                  7

a disorder completely stopped, cellular behavior is moved to some degree, toward a normal
state that would be observed in the absence of aberrant adrenocortical cellular activity.
      [0040]    As used herein, "aberrant adrenocortical cellular behavior" includes increased
hormone production, benign adenoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, metastatic adrenocortical
carcinoma, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hyperaldosteronism including Conn syndrome, a
unilateral aldosterone-producing adenoma, bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (or idiopathic
hyperaldosteronism (IHA)), renin-responsive adenoma, primary adrenal hyperplasia and
glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA), and 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
Accordingly, "disorders associated with aberrant adrenocortical cellular activity" is used
herein to mean symptoms and/or conditions that arise, either directly or indirectly, from
aberrant adrenocortical cellular behavior. As will become apparent herein, these symptoms
and/or conditions that arise from, either directly or indirectly, from aberrant adrenocortical
cellular behavior are numerous. As used herein, "adrenocortical" and "adrenal cortex" are
intended to mean the same.
      [0041]    As used herein, "Cushing's syndrome" means a hormonal disorder caused by
prolonged exposure of the body's tissues to high levels of cortisol. Cushing's syndrome is
sometimes referred to as "hypercortisolism" (excess cortisol production). Cushing's
syndrome includes various subtypes of the disease, including Cushing's disease, adrenal
Cushing's syndrome, and ectopic ACTH syndrome, which are categorized by the cause of
hypercortisolism. Cushing's disease, also known as pituitary Cushing's, is caused by a
pituitary gland tumor which secretes excessive ACTH, which in turn stimulates the adrenal
glands to make more cortisol. Ectopic ACTH syndrome is caused by tumors that arise
outside the pituitary gland that can produce ACTH, which stimulates cortisol production.
Adrenal Cushing's syndrome is caused by an abnormality of the adrenal gland, usually an
adrenal tumor, that causes excess cortisol secretion.
      [0042]    As used herein, the phrase "metastatic cancer" is defined as a cancer that has
the potential to, or has begun to, spread to other areas of the body.
      [0043]    As used herein, the phrase term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an
amount of a therapeutic agent to treat, ameliorate, or prevent a disease or condition, or to
exhibit a detectable therapeutic or preventative effect. The effect is detected by, for example,
a reduction in tumor size. The effect is also detected by, for example, chemical markers or
                                                 8

antigen levels. Therapeutic effects also include reduction in physical symptoms, such as
decreased body temperature. The precise effective amount for a subject will depend upon the
subject's size and health, the nature and extent of the condition, the therapeutics or
combination of therapeutics selected for administration, and other variables known to those
of skill in the art. The effective amount for a given situation is determined by routine
experimentation and is within the judgment of the clinician.
      [0044]     A "prodrug" is a compound typically having little or no pharmacological
activity itself but capable of releasing, for example by hydrolysis or metabolic cleaving of a
linkage such as an ester moiety, an active drug upon administration to a subject.
Methods
      [0045]     Provided herein are methods for treatment of a disorder associated with
aberrant adrenal cortex cellular activity. In various aspects, methods are also provided for
slowing or stopping progression of a disorder associated with aberrant adrenal cortex cellular
activity. In various aspects, methods are also provided for preventing a disorder associated
with aberrant adrenal cortex cellular activity. In various aspects, methods are also provided
for reversing a disorder associated with aberrant adrenal cortex cellular activity.
      [0046]     Methods according to the disclosure also include slowing or stopping
progression, preventing or reversing a symptom associated with aberrant adrenal cortex cell
behavior.
Treating
      [0047]     In various aspects, a method for treating increased hormone production in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0048]     In various aspects, a method for treating benign adenoma in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0049]     In various aspects, a method for treating adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient
is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
                                                 9

      [0050]     In various aspects, a method for treating metastatic adrenocortical carcinoma
in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR
101 to the patient.
      [0051]     In various aspects, a method for treating congenital adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0052]     In various aspects, a method for treating Cushing's syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0053]     In various aspects, a method for treating excess cortisol production in a patient
is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0054]     In various aspects, a method for treating symptoms associated with excess
cortisol production in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0055]     In various aspects, a method for treating hyperaldosteronism in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0056]     In various aspects, a method for treating Conn syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0057]     In various aspects, a method for treating unilateral aldosterone-producing
adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount
of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0058]     In various aspects, a method for treating bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (or
idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA)) in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0059]     In various aspects, a method for treating renin-responsive adenoma in a patient
is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
                                                10

      [0060]     In various aspects, a method for treating primary adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0061]     In various aspects, a method for treating glucocorticoid-remediable
aldosteronism (GRA) in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0062]     In various aspects, a method for treating 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0063]     In various aspects, a method for reducing adrenocortical tumor size in a
patient is provided comprising administering an effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0064]     In various aspects, a method of inhibiting aberrant adrenal hormone
production in a patient is provided comprising administering an effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient to inhibit hormone production.
Slowing or stopping progression
      [0065]     In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of increased
hormone production in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0066]     In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of benign
adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount
of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0067]     In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of
adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0068]     In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of metastatic
adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0069]     In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of Cushing's
syndrome in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective
amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
                                                11

      [0070]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression excess
cortisol production in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0071]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of symptoms
associated with excess cortisol production in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0072]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of congenital
adrenal hyperplasia in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0073]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of
hyperaldosteronism in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0074]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of Conn
syndrome in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective
amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0075]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of unilateral
aldosterone-producing adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0076]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of bilateral
adrenal hyperplasia (or idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA)) in a patient is provided
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0077]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of renin
responsive adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0078]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of primary
adrenal hyperplasia in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0079]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of
glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA) in a patient is provided comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR- 101 to the patient.
                                               12

      [0080]    In various aspects, a method for slowing or stopping progression of 21
hydroxylase deficiency in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
Preventing
      [0081]    In various aspects, a method for preventing increased hormone production in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0082]    In various aspects, a method for preventing benign adenoma in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0083]    In various aspects, a method for preventing adrenocortical carcinoma in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0084]    In various aspects, a method for preventing metastatic adrenocortical
carcinoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective
amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0085]    In various aspects, a method for preventing Cushing's syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0086]    In various aspects, a method for preventing excess cortisol production in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0087]    In various aspects, a method for preventing progression symptoms associated
with excess cortisol production in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0088]    In various aspects, a method for preventing congenital adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
                                                13

      [0089]    In various aspects, a method for preventing hyperaldosteronism in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0090]    In various aspects, a method for preventing Conn syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0091]    In various aspects, a method for preventing unilateral aldosterone-producing
adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount
of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0092]    In various aspects, a method for preventing bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (or
idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA)) in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0093]    In various aspects, a method for preventing renin-responsive adenoma in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0094]    In various aspects, a method for preventing primary adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [0095]    In various aspects, a method for preventing glucocorticoid-remediable
aldosteronism (GRA) in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [0096]    In various aspects, a method for preventing 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
Reversing
      [0097]    In various aspects, a method for reversing hormone production in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
                                               14

      [0098]     In various aspects, a method for reversing benign adenoma in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [0099]     In various aspects, a method for reversing adrenocortical carcinoma in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [00100]    In various aspects, a method for reversing metastatic adrenocortical carcinoma
in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR
101 to the patient.
      [00101]    In various aspects, a method for reversing Cushing's syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [00102]    In various aspects, a method for reversing excess cortisol production in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [00103]    In various aspects, a method for reversing congenital adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [00104]    In various aspects, a method for reversing hyperaldosteronism in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [00105]    In various aspects, a method for reversing Conn syndrome in a patient is
provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the
patient.
      [00106]    In various aspects, a method for reversing unilateral aldosterone-producing
adenoma in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount
of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [00107]    In various aspects, a method for reversing bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (or
idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (IHA)) in a patient is provided comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
                                                15

      [00108]   In various aspects, a method for reversing renin-responsive adenoma in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [00109]   In various aspects, a method for reversing primary adrenal hyperplasia in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
      [00110]   In various aspects, a method for reversing glucocorticoid-remediable
aldosteronism (GRA) in a patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of ATR-101 to the patient.
      [00111]   In various aspects, a method for reversing 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a
patient is provided comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of ATR-101
to the patient.
Compounds
      [00112]   Compounds useful in methods of the disclosure include, in various aspects,
those that induce a state of quiescence in adrenal cortex cells. In various aspects, compounds
and methods do not kill adrenal stem cells. In various aspects, compounds and methods of
the disclosure selectively ablate the adrenal cortex cells. In various aspects, compounds of
the disclosure selectively inhibit the enzymatic activity of cytochrome C oxidase (Complex
IV) in adrenal cortex cells, and/or selectively inhibit respiration in target adrenal cortex cells.
In various aspects, compounds and methods of the disclosure modulate hormone production
in (and from) adrenal cortex cells.
      [00113]   In one embodiment, methods of the disclosure utilize an inhibitor of acyl
coenzyme A:cholesterol 0-acyltransferase (ACAT; EC 2.3.1.26) designated as PD132301 or
PD132301-2 (N-(2,6-bis(1-methylethyl)phenyl)-N'-((1-(4
(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride; PD-132301-2; PD 132301
2; Urea, N-(2,6-bis(1-methylethyl)-phenyl)-N'-((1-(4- (dimethylamino)phenyl)
cyclopentyl)methyl)-, monohydrochloride). Prodrugs of PD132301, as wells as salts thereof,
are also contemplated. The monohydrochloride salt of the free base, as depicted by the
following structure, is referred to herein as "ATR-10 1".
                                                 16

                                NMe 2
                                                                    i-Pr
                                                      0
                                     CH 2 -NH-C-NH
                                                            i-Pr
[00114]         ATR-101 may be made by techniques known in the art, including (for
example) by the procedures disclosed by Trivedi, B.K., et al., J. Med. Chem., 37(11):1652
1659, 1994 and/or U.S. Patent No. 5,015,644. In addition to the monohydrochloride salt,
other contemplated salt forms include salts which retain biological effectiveness and which
are not biologically or otherwise undesirable, and which are formed with inorganic acids such
as, but not limited to, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
phosphoric acid and the like, or with organic acids such as, but not limited to, acetic acid, 2,2
dichloroacetic acid, adipic acid, alginic acid, ascorbic acid, aspartic acid, benzenesulfonic
acid, benzoic acid, 4-acetamidobenzoic acid, camphoric acid, camphor-10-sulfonic acid,
capric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, carbonic acid, cinnamic acid, citric acid, cyclamic
acid, dodecylsulfuric acid, ethane- 1,2-disulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, galactaric acid, gentisic acid,
glucoheptonic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic acid, glutamic acid, glutaric acid, 2-oxo
glutaric acid, glycerophosphoric acid, glycolic acid, hippuric acid, isobutyric acid, lactic acid,
lactobionic acid, lauric acid, maleic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, mandelic acid,
methanesulfonic acid, mucic acid, naphthalene-1,5-disulfonic acid, naphthalene-2-sulfonic
acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, nicotinic acid, oleic acid, orotic acid, oxalic acid, palmitic
acid, pamoic acid, propionic acid, pyroglutamic acid, pyruvic acid, salicylic acid, 4
aminosalicylic acid, sebacic acid, stearic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, thiocyanic acid, p
toluenesulfonic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, undecylenic acid, and the like.
Testing
      [00115]   It is understood in the art that a patient population to be targeted with a
method or compound of the invention is identified through routine testing. In one
embodiment, a target patient is identified as one wherein adrenocorticotropic hormone
                                                  17

(ACTH levels) are low or suppressed, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) levels are low or
suppressed, aldosterone levels are high, cortisol levels are high, and/or potassium levels low.
      [00116]    With respect to high levels of cortisol, it is known in the art that cortisol can
suppress DHEA and progesterone. It can also suppress thyroid activity. Cortisol can
mobilize calcium from bones, and circulate it back into our blood stream. In various aspects,
an excess of cortisol can cause bone loss and therefore osteoporosis. Excess cortisol can
suppress the immune system and cause disease, including parasitic and viral diseases. For
example, Candida and parasitic conditions can be caused by high cortisol since excess
cortisol destroys friendly bacteria just like antibiotics do. High cortisol also elevates blood
sugar which can initiate, or worsen, diabetic conditions. Thus, weight gain around the
abdominal region is common from stress induced high cortisol.
      [00117]    Elevated cortisol can manifest with easy bruising, poor muscle tone or muscle
wasting, poor wound healing, thin skin, stretch marks, excess scar tissue, development of fat
pads, chronic yeast infections, accelerated skin aging, puffy flabby skin, water retention,
moon face, memory loss and loss of general cognitive (learning) ability, and/or mood swings.
Symptoms that suggest increased cortisol or other adrenal gland hormone production include
fatty, rounded hump high on the back just below the neck (buffalo hump), obesity, stunted
growth in height (short stature), virilization, including the appearance of male characteristics,
including increased body hair (especially on the face), pubic hair, acne, and deepening of
voice.
Co-therapy
      [00118]    Methods provided contemplate co-therapy by administration of a second
therapeutic agent, including known chemotherapeutics, targeting agents, adrenalysis agents,
metformin, everolimus, and/or IGF1R antagonist. Methods involving co-therapy also include
use of radiation therapy.
Clinical trial regimens
      [00119]    Methods contemplated include use of a compound in combination with other
treatment methods currently involved, previously involved or expected to be involved in the
future, in clinical trials.
                                                  18

      [00120]   For example, methods are provided involving administration of a compound
with mitotane by mouth four times a day for 3 weeks. The regimen includes a 6-hour
infusion of cisplatin on 2 days and 1-hour infusions of etoposide on 3 days and doxorubicin
on 2 days in week 1. G-CSF is administered once a day beginning in week 1 and continuing
until blood counts return to normal or an injection of pegfilgrastim once in week 1.
      [00121]   Methods are provided which include use of a compound with mitotane in
patients who have undergone or will undergo radical resection.
      [00122]   Methods are contemplated including a compound of the disclosure with oral
sorafenib 400 mg p.o. bid plus intravenous paclitaxel 60 mg/mq/weekly i.v.
      [00123]   Methods are provided which include a administering a compound with an
antineoplaston. In some aspects, methods for the treatment of stage IV adrenal gland cancer
are contemplated.
      [00124]   Methods are also contemplated for administering a compound with axitinib in
individuals with aggressive or otherwise untreatable adrenocortical cancer.
      [00125]   Methods are contemplated utilizing a compound of the disclosure with
sunitinib or temsirolimus. A method involving administration of a compound with sunitinib
hydroxychloroquine administration is also contemplated.
      [00126]   Methods are also contemplated utilizing a compound of the disclosure and
dovitinib (TKI-258), dosed on a flat scale of 500mg/day on a 5 days on / 2 days off schedule.
      [00127]   Methods are also contemplated utilizing a compound of the disclosure with
antibody 8H9 injected into the lining of the abdomen or peritoneum, where the tumor is.
Methods wherein radioactive iodine can be bound to this antibody to deliver radiation to the
tumor are also contemplated.
Chemotherapeutic/radiotherapeutic agents
      [00128]   Examples of suitable chemotherapeutic and radiotherapeutic agents include,
but are not limited to: an anti-metabolite; a DNA-damaging agent; a cytokine useful as a
chemotherapeutic agent; a covalent DNA-binding drug; a topoisomerase inhibitor; an anti
mitotic agent; an anti-tumor antibiotic; a differentiation agent; an alkylating agent; a
methylating agent; a hormone or hormone antagonist; a nitrogen mustard; a radiosensitizer; a
                                                19

photosensitizer; a radiation source, optionally together with a radiosensitizer or
photosensitizer; or other commonly used therapeutic agents.
      [00129]   Chemotherapeutic agents contemplated for use include, without limitation,
alkylating agents including: nitrogen mustards, such as mechlor-ethamine,
cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, melphalan and chlorambucil; nitrosoureas, such as
carmustine (BCNU), lomustine (CCNU), and semustine (methyl-CCNU);
ethylenimines/methylmelamine such as thriethylenemelamine (TEM), triethylene,
thiophosphoramide (thiotepa), hexamethylmelamine (HMM, altretamine); alkyl sulfonates
such as busulfan; triazines such as dacarbazine (DTIC); antimetabolites including folic acid
analogs such as methotrexate and trimetrexate, pyrimidine analogs such as 5-fluorouracil,
fluorodeoxyuridine, gemcitabine, cytosine arabinoside (AraC, cytarabine), 5-azacytidine,
2,2'-difluorodeoxycytidine, purine analogs such as 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine,
azathioprine, 2'-deoxycoformycin (pentostatin), erythrohydroxynonyladenine (EHNA),
fludarabine phosphate, and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (cladribine, 2-CdA); natural products
including antimitotic drugs such as paclitaxel, vinca alkaloids including vinblastine (VLB),
vincristine, and vinorelbine, taxotere, estramustine, and estramustine phosphate;
epipodophylotoxins such as etoposide and teniposide; antibiotics such as actinomycin D,
daunomycin (rubidomycin), doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, idarubicin, bleomycins, plicamycin
(mithramycin), mitomycinC, and actinomycin; enzymes such as L-asparaginase; biological
response modifiers such as interferon-alpha, IL-2, G-CSF and GM-CSF; miscellaneous
agents including platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin, Pt(IV) and carboplatin,
anthracenediones such as mitoxantrone, substituted urea such as hydroxyurea,
methylhydrazine derivatives including N-methylhydrazine (MIH) and procarbazine,
adrenocortical suppressants such as mitotane (o,p'-DDD) and aminoglutethimide; hormones
and antagonists including adrenocorticosteroid antagonists such as prednisone and
equivalents, dexamethasone and aminoglutethimide; progestin such as hydroxyprogesterone
caproate, medroxyprogesterone acetate and megestrol acetate; estrogen such as
diethylstilbestrol and ethinyl estradiol equivalents; antiestrogen such as tamoxifen; androgens
including testosterone propionate and fluoxymesterone/equivalents; antiandrogens such as
flutamide, gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs and leuprolide; and non-steroidal
antiandrogens such as flutamide.
                                                20

      [00130]   In some embodiments, a chemotherapeutic agent is co-administered or co
formulated wherein the chemotheraputic agent is selected from the group consisting of 5
fluorouracil (5-FU), Adriamycin, Dactinomycin, Bleomycin, Vinblastine, Cisplatin, acivicin;
aclarubicin; acodazole hydrochloride; acronine; adozelesin; aldesleukin; altretamine;
ambomycin; ametantrone acetate; aminoglutethimide; amsacrine; anastrozole; anthramycin;
asparaginase; asperlin; azacitidine; azetepa; azotomycin; batimastat; benzodepa;
bicalutamide; bisantrene hydrochloride; bisnafide dimesylate; bizelesin; bleomycin sulfate;
brequinar sodium; bropirimine; busulfan; cactinomycin; calusterone; caracemide; carbetimer;
carboplatin; carmustine; carubicin hydrochloride; carzelesin; cedefingol; chlorambucil;
cirolemycin; cladribine; crisnatol mesylate; cyclophosphamide; cytarabine; dacarbazine;
daunorubicin hydrochloride; decitabine; dexormaplatin; dezaguanine; dezaguanine mesylate;
diaziquone; doxorubicin; doxorubicin hydrochloride; droloxifene; droloxifene citrate;
dromostanolone propionate; duazomycin; edatrexate; eflomithine hydrochloride;
elsamitrucin; enloplatin; enpromate; epipropidine; epirubicin hydrochloride; erbulozole;
esorubicin hydrochloride; estramustine; estramustine phosphate sodium; etanidazole;
etoposide; etoposide phosphate; etoprine; fadrozole hydrochloride; fazarabine; fenretinide;
floxuridine; fludarabine phosphate; fluorouracil; fluorocitabine; fosquidone; fostriecin
sodium; gemcitabine; gemcitabine hydrochloride; hydroxyurea; idarubicin hydrochloride;
ifosfamide; ilmofosine; interleukin II (including recombinant interleukin II, or rIL2),
interferon J-2a; interferon 0 -2b; interferon 0 -ni; interferon 0 -n3; interferon 0 -I a;
interferon j-I b; iproplatin; irinotecan hydrochloride; lanreotide acetate; letrozole; leuprolide
acetate; liarozole hydrochloride; lometrexol sodium; lomustine; losoxantrone hydrochloride;
masoprocol; maytansine; mechlorethamine hydrochloride; megestrol acetate; melengestrol
acetate; melphalan; menogaril; mercaptopurine; methotrexate; methotrexate sodium;
metoprine; meturedepa; mitindomide; mitocarcin; mitocromin; mitogillin; mitomalcin;
mitomycin; mitosper; mitotane; mitoxantrone hydrochloride; mycophenolic acid; nocodazole;
nogalamycin; ormaplatin; oxisuran; pegaspargase; peliomycin; pentamustine; peplomycin
sulfate; perfosfamide; pipobroman; piposulfan; piroxantrone hydrochloride; plicamycin;
plomestane; porfimer sodium; porfiromycin; prednimustine; procarbazine hydrochloride;
puromycin; puromycin hydrochloride; pyrazofurin; riboprine; rogletimide; safingol; safingol
hydrochloride; semustine; simtrazene; sparfosate sodium; sparsomycin; spirogermanium
                                                21

hydrochloride; spiromustine; spiroplatin; streptonigrin; streptozocin; sulofenur; talisomycin;
tecogalan sodium; tegafur; teloxantrone hydrochloride; temoporfin; teniposide; teroxirone;
testolactone; thiamiprine; thioguanine; thiotepa; tiazofurin; tirapazamine; toremifene citrate;
trestolone acetate; triciribine phosphate; trimetrexate; trimetrexate glucuronate; triptorelin;
tubulozole hydrochloride; uracil mustard; uredepa; vapreotide; verteporfin; vinblastine
sulfate; vincristine sulfate; vindesine; vindesine sulfate; vinepidine sulfate; vinglycinate
sulfate; vinleurosine sulfate; vinorelbine tartrate; vinrosidine sulfate; vinzolidine sulfate;
vorozole; zeniplatin; zinostatin; and zorubicin hydrochloride.
      [00131]    Other chemotherapeutic agents include, but are not limited to, 20-epi-1,25
dihydroxyvitamin D3; 5-ethynyluracil; abiraterone; aclarubicin; acylfulvene; adecypenol;
adozelesin; aldesleukin; ALL-TK antagonists; altretamine; ambamustine; amidox;
amifostine; aminolevulinic acid; amrubicin; anagrelide; andrographolide; angiogenesis
inhibitors; antagonist D; antagonist G; antarelix; anti-dorsalizing morphogenetic protein-1;
antiandrogen, prostatic carcinoma; antiestrogen; antineoplaston; antisense oligonucleotides;
aphidicolin glycinate; apoptosis gene modulators; apoptosis regulators; apurinic acid; ara
CDP-DL-PTBA; arginine deaminase; asulacrine; atamestane; atrimustine; axinastatin 1;
axinastatin 2; axinastatin 3; azasetron; azatoxin; azatyrosine; baccatin III derivatives; balanol;
batimastat; BCR/ABL antagonists; benzochlorins; benzoylstaurosporine; beta lactam
derivatives; beta-alethine; betaclamycin B; betulinic acid; bFGF inhibitor; bicalutamide;
bisantrene; bisaziridinylspermine; bisnafide; bistratene A; bizelesin; breflate; bropirimine;
budotitane; buthionine sulfoximine; calcipotriol; calphostin C; camptothecin derivatives;
canarypox IL-2; capecitabine; carboxamide-amino-triazole; carboxyamidotriazole; CaRest
M3; CARN 700; cartilage derived inhibitor; carzelesin; casein kinase inhibitors (ICOS);
castanospermine; cecropin B; cetrorelix; chlorlns; chloroquinoxaline sulfonamide; cicaprost;
cis-porphyrin; cladribine; clomifene analogues; clotrimazole; collismycin A; collismycin B;
combretastatin A4; combretastatin analogue; conagenin; crambescidin 816; crisnatol;
cryptophycin 8; cryptophycin A derivatives; curacin A; cyclopentanthraquinones;
cycloplatam; cypemycin; cytarabine ocfosfate; cytolytic factor; cytostatin; dacliximab;
decitabine; dehydrodidemnin B; deslorelin; dexamethasone; dexifosfamide; dexrazoxane;
dexverapamil; diaziquone; didemnin B; didox; diethylnorspermine; dihydro-5-azacytidine; 9
dioxamycin; diphenyl spiromustine; docosanol; dolasetron; doxifluridine; droloxifene;
                                                 22

dronabinol; duocarmycin SA; ebselen; ecomustine; edelfosine; edrecolomab; eflomithine;
elemene; emitefur; epirubicin; epristeride; estramustine analogue; estrogen agonists; estrogen
antagonists; etanidazole; etoposide phosphate; exemestane; fadrozole; fazarabine; fenretinide;
filgrastim; finasteride; flavopiridol; flezelastine; fluasterone; fludarabine; fluorodaunorunicin
hydrochloride; forfenimex; formestane; fostriecin; fotemustine; gadolinium texaphyrin;
gallium nitrate; galocitabine; ganirelix; gelatinase inhibitors; gemcitabine; glutathione
inhibitors; hepsulfam; heregulin; hexamethylene bisacetamide; hypericin; ibandronic acid;
idarubicin; idoxifene; idramantone; ilmofosine; ilomastat; imidazoacridones; imiquimod;
immunostimulant peptides; insulin-like growth factor-I receptor inhibitor; interferon
agonists; interferons; interleukins; iobenguane; iododoxorubicin; ipomeanol, 4-; iroplact;
irsogladine; isobengazole; isohomohalicondrin B; itasetron; jasplakinolide; kahalalide F;
lamellarin-N triacetate; lanreotide; leinamycin; lenograstim; lentinan sulfate; leptolstatin;
letrozole; leukemia inhibiting factor; leukocyte alpha interferon;
leuprolide+estrogen+progesterone; leuprorelin; levamisole; liarozole; linear polyamine
analogue; lipophilic disaccharide peptide; lipophilic platinum compounds; lissoclinamide 7;
lobaplatin; lombricine; lometrexol; lonidamine; losoxantrone; lovastatin; loxoribine;
lurtotecan; lutetium texaphyrin; lysofylline; lytic peptides; maitansine; mannostatin A;
marimastat; masoprocol; maspin; matrilysin inhibitors; matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors;
menogaril; merbarone; meterelin; methioninase; metoclopramide; MIF inhibitor;
mifepristone; miltefosine; mirimostim; mismatched double stranded RNA; mitoguazone;
mitolactol; mitomycin analogues; mitonafide; mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor-saporin;
mitoxantrone; mofarotene; molgramostim; monoclonal antibody, human chorionic
gonadotrophin; monophosphoryl lipid A+myobacterium cell wall sk; mopidamol; multiple
drug resistance gene inhibitor; multiple tumor suppressor 1-based therapy; mustard anticancer
agent; mycaperoxide B; mycobacterial cell wall extract; myriaporone; N-acetyldinaline; N
substituted benzamides; nafarelin; nagrestip; naloxone+pentazocine; napavin; naphterpin;
nartograstim; nedaplatin; nemorubicin; neridronic acid; neutral endopeptidase; nilutamide;
nisamycin; nitric oxide modulators; nitroxide antioxidant; nitrullyn; 06-benzylguanine;
octreotide; okicenone; oligonucleotides; onapristone; ondansetron; oracin; oral cytokine
inducer; ormaplatin; osaterone; oxaliplatin; oxaunomycin; palauamine; palmitoylrhizoxin;
pamidronic acid; panaxytriol; panomifene; parabactin; pazelliptine; pegaspargase; peldesine;
                                                  23

pentosan polysulfate sodium; pentostatin; pentrozole; perflubron; perfosfamide; perillyl
alcohol; phenazinomycin; phenylacetate; phosphatase inhibitors; picibanil; pilocarpine
hydrochloride; pirarubicin; piritrexim; placetin A; placetin B; plasminogen activator
inhibitor; platinum complex; platinum compounds; platinum-triamine complex; porfimer
sodium; porfiromycin; prednisone; propyl bis-acridone; prostaglandin J2; proteasome
inhibitors; protein A-based immune modulator; protein kinase C inhibitor; protein kinase C
inhibitors, microalgal; protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors; purine nucleoside
phosphorylase inhibitors; purpurins; pyrazoloacridine; pyridoxylated hemoglobin
polyoxyethylene conjugate; raf antagonists; raltitrexed; ramosetron; ras farnesyl protein
transferase inhibitors; ras inhibitors; ras-GAP inhibitor; retelliptine demethylated; rhenium
Re 186 etidronate; rhizoxin; ribozymes; RII retinamide; rogletimide; rohitukine; romurtide;
roquinimex; rubiginone B 1; ruboxyl; safingol; saintopin; SarCNU; sarcophytol A;
sargramostim; Sdi 1 mimetics; semustine; senescence derived inhibitor 1; sense
oligonucleotides; signal transduction inhibitors; signal transduction modulators; single chain
antigen-binding protein; sizofuran; sobuzoxane; sodium borocaptate; sodium phenylacetate;
solverol; somatomedin binding protein; sonermin; sparfosic acid; spicamycin D;
spiromustine; splenopentin; spongistatin 1; squalamine; stem cell inhibitor; stem-cell division
inhibitors; stipiamide; stromelysin inhibitors; sulfinosine; superactive vasoactive intestinal
peptide antagonist; suradista; suramin; swainsonine; synthetic glycosaminoglycans;
tallimustine; tamoxifen methiodide; tauromustine; tazarotene; tecogalan sodium; tegafur;
tellurapyrylium; telomerase inhibitors; temoporfin; temozolomide; teniposide;
tetrachlorodecaoxide; tetrazomine; thaliblastine; thiocoraline; thrombopoietin;
thrombopoietin mimetic; thymalfasin; thymopoietin receptor agonist; thymotrinan; thyroid
stimulating hormone; tin ethyl etiopurpurin; tirapazamine; titanocene bichloride; topsentin;
toremifene; totipotent stem cell factor; translation inhibitors; tretinoin; triacetyluridine;
triciribine; trimetrexate; triptorelin; tropisetron; turosteride; tyrosine kinase inhibitors;
tyrphostins; UBC inhibitors; ubenimex; urogenital sinus-derived growth inhibitory factor;
urokinase receptor antagonists; vapreotide; variolin B; vector system, erythrocyte gene
therapy; velaresol; veramine; verdins; verteporfin; vinorelbine; vinxaltine; vitaxin;
zanoterone; zilascorb; and zinostatin stimalamer.
                                                   24

Cytokines
      [00132]   Cytokines that are effective in inhibiting carcinoma growth and metastasis are
also contemplated for use in the combination therapy. Such cytokines, lymphokines, or other
hematopoietic factors include, but are not limited to, M-CSF, GM-CSF, TNF, IL-1, IL-2, IL
3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-14, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17,
IL-18, IFN-a or IFN-y, TNFa, TNF1, TNF2, G-CSF, Meg-CSF, GM-CSF, SCF, MIP-1, LIF,
c-kit ligand, thrombopoietin, stem cell factor, and erythropoietin.
Co-stimulatory compounds
      [00133]   Methods involving co-therapy with other stimulatory molecules are also
contemplated. Stimulatory molecules include CD40, B7-1, B7-2, CD54, members of the
ICAM family (including ICAM-1, -2, or -3), CD58, SLAM ligands, polypeptides that bind
heat stable antigen, polypeptides which bind to members of the TNF receptor family
(including without limitation 4-1BBL, TRAF-1, TRAF-2, TRAF-3, OX40L, TRAF-5,
CD70), CD 154, chemokines including without limitation CCL3, CCL5 CXCL10 and CCL7.
Administration
Standard of care
      [00134]   In some embodiments, the methods described herein further comprise
administering a standard of care cancer therapy to the subject. In the context of methods of
the invention, "standard of care" refers to a treatment that is generally accepted by clinicians
for a certain type of patient diagnosed with a type of illness.
Routes of administration
      [00135]   The compound is administered by any suitable means, either systemically or
locally, including via parenteral, subcutaneous, intrapulmonary, intramuscular, oral, and
intranasal. Parenteral routes include intravenous, intraarterial, epidural, and intrathecal
administration. In various aspects, the compound is administered by pulse infusion. Other
administration methods are contemplated, including topical, particularly transdermal,
transmucosal, rectal, oral or local administration.
                                                 25

Pharmaceutical compositions/formulation
      [00136]   Another aspect of the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition for
treating a condition. In still another aspect of the disclosure, a composition comprising ATR
101 and a second therapeutic agent in a unit dose is provided.
      [00137]   One or more other pharmaceutically acceptable components as described in
Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980) is included in the
formulation provided that they do not adversely affect the desired characteristics of the
formulation. Examples of formulations for a pharmaceutical composition include, without
limitation, solutions, suspensions, powders, granules, tablets, capsules, pills, lozenges, chews,
creams, ointments, gels, liposome preparations, nanoparticulate preparations, injectable
preparations, enemas, suppositories, inhalable powders, sprayable liquids, aerosols, patches,
depots and implants. In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation is in the
form of a tablet or a capsule. Tablets are, in various aspects, uncoated or comprise a core that
is coated, for example with a nonfunctional film or a release-modifying or enteric coating. In
various aspects, capsules have hard or soft shells comprising, for example, gelatin and/or
HPMC, optionally together with one or more plasticizers. Lyophilized formulations or
aqueous solutions are contemplated. Sustained release formulations are also provided.
      [00138]   Various components of a pharmaceutical composition provided depend on the
chosen route of administration and desired delivery method.
Carriers
      [00139]   Suitable carriers include any material which, when combined with the
compound, retains the activity and is nonreactive with the subject's immune system.
Examples include, but are not limited to, any of a number of standard pharmaceutical
carriers. A variety of aqueous carriers are contemplated and include, without limitation,
water, buffered water, physiological saline, 0.4% saline, and 0.3% glycine.
Stabilizers
      [00140]   In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
protein for enhanced stability, such as and without limitation, albumin, lipoprotein, and
globulin.
                                                 26

Diluents
      [00141]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
diluent, either individually or in combination, such as, and without limitation, lactose,
including anhydrous lactose and lactose monohydrate; lactitol; maltitol; mannitol; sorbitol;
xylitol; dextrose and dextrose monohydrate; fructose; sucrose and sucrose-based diluents
such as compressible sugar, confectioner's sugar and sugar spheres; maltose; inositol;
hydrolyzed cereal solids; starches (e.g., corn starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch,
tapioca starch, etc.), starch components such as amylose and dextrates, and modified or
processed starches such as pregelatinized starch; dextrins; celluloses including powdered
cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, silicified microcrystalline cellulose, food grade sources
of a- and amorphous cellulose and powdered cellulose, and cellulose acetate; calcium salts
including calcium carbonate, tribasic calcium phosphate, dibasic calcium phosphate
dihydrate, monobasic calcium sulfate monohydrate, calcium sulfate and granular calcium
lactate trihydrate; magnesium carbonate; magnesium oxide; bentonite; kaolin; sodium
chloride; and the like.
      [00142]    Diluents, if present, typically constitute in total about 5% to about 99%, about
10% to about 85%, or about 20% to about 80%, by weight of the composition. The diluent or
diluents selected exhibit suitable flow properties and, where tablets are desired,
compressibility.
Binding agents
      [00143]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes binding
agents or adhesives which are useful excipients, particularly where the composition is in the
form of a tablet. Such binding agents and adhesives should impart sufficient cohesion to the
blend being formulated in a tablet to allow for normal processing operations such as sizing,
lubrication, compression and packaging, but still allow the tablet to disintegrate and the
compound to be absorbed upon ingestion. Suitable binding agents and adhesives include,
either individually or in combination, acacia; tragacanth; glucose; polydextrose; starch
including pregelatinized starch; gelatin; modified celluloses including methylcellulose,
carmellose sodium, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC or hypromellose), hydroxypropyl
cellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose and ethylcellulose; dextrins including maltodextrin; zein;
alginic acid and salts of alginic acid, for example sodium alginate; magnesium aluminum
                                                  27

silicate; bentonite; polyethylene glycol (PEG); polyethylene oxide; guar gum; polysaccharide
acids; polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone), for example povidone K-15, K-30 and K-29/32;
polyacrylic acids (carbomers); polymethacrylates; and the like. One or more binding agents
and/or adhesives, if present, constitute in various aspects, in total about 0.5% to about 25%,
for example about 0.75% to about 15%, or about 1% to about 10%, by weight of the
composition.
Buffers
      [00144]    In various aspects, an aqueous pharmaceutical composition formulation of the
compound includes a buffer. Examples of buffers include acetate (e.g., sodium acetate),
succinate (such as sodium succinate), gluconate, histidine, citrate and other organic acid
buffers. The buffer concentration can be from about 1 mM to about 200 mM, or from about
10 mM to about 60 mM, depending, for example, on the buffer and the desired isotonicity of
the formulation. In various aspects, an aqueous pharmaceutical composition formulation of
the compound is prepared in a pH-buffered solution, for example, at pH ranging from about
4.5 to about 8.0, or from about 4.8 to about 6.5, or from about 4.8 to about 5.5, or
alternatively about 5.0.
Disintegrants
      [00145]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
disintegrant.
      [00146]    Suitable disintegrants include, either individually or in combination, starches
including pregelatinized starch and sodium starch glycolate; clays; magnesium aluminum
silicate; cellulose-based disintegrants such as powdered cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose,
methylcellulose, low-substituted hydroxypropylcellulose, carmellose, carmellose calcium,
carmellose sodium and croscarmellose sodium; alginates; povidone; crospovidone; polacrilin
potassium; gums such as agar, guar, locust bean, karaya, pectin and tragacanth gums;
colloidal silicon dioxide; and the like. One or more disintegrants, if present, typically
constitute in total about 0.2% to about 30%, for example about 0.2% to about 10%, or about
0.2% to about 5%, by weight of the composition.
                                                 28

Wetting agents
      [00147]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
wetting agent. Wetting agents, if present, are normally selected to maintain the compound in
close association with water, a condition that is believed to improve bioavailability of the
composition. Non-limiting examples of surfactants that can be used as wetting agents
include, either individually or in combination, quaternary ammonium compounds, for
example benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride and cetylpyridinium chloride;
dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate; polyoxyethylene alkylphenyl ethers, for example nonoxynol 9,
nonoxynol 10 and octoxynol 9; poloxamers (polyoxyethylene and polyoxypropylene block
copolymers); polyoxyethylene fatty acid glycerides and oils, for example polyoxyethylene (8)
caprylic/capric mono- and diglycerides, polyoxyethylene (35) castor oil and polyoxyethylene
(40) hydrogenated castor oil; polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers, for example ceteth-10, laureth-4,
laureth-23, oleth-2, oleth-10, oleth-20, steareth-2, steareth-10, steareth-20, steareth-100 and
polyoxyethylene (20) cetostearyl ether; polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, for example
polyoxyethylene (20) stearate, polyoxyethylene (40) stearate and polyoxyethylene (100)
stearate; sorbitan esters; polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters, for example polysorbate 20 and
polysorbate 80; propylene glycol fatty acid esters, for example propylene glycol laurate;
sodium lauryl sulfate; fatty acids and salts thereof, for example oleic acid, sodium oleate and
triethanolamine oleate; glyceryl fatty acid esters, for example glyceryl monooleate, glyceryl
monostearate and glyceryl palmitostearate; sorbitan esters, for example sorbitan monolaurate,
sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monopalmitate and sorbitan monostearate; tyloxapol; and the
like. One or more wetting agents, if present, typically constitute in total about 0.25% to about
15%, preferably about 0.4% to about 10%, and more preferably about 0.5% to about 5%, by
weight of the composition.
Lubricants
      [00148]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
lubricant. Lubricants reduce friction between a tableting mixture and tableting equipment
during compression of tablet formulations. Suitable lubricants include, either individually or
in combination, glyceryl behenate; stearic acid and salts thereof, including magnesium,
calcium and sodium stearates; hydrogenated vegetable oils; glyceryl palmitostearate; talc;
waxes; sodium benzoate; sodium acetate; sodium fumarate; sodium stearyl fumarate; PEGs
                                                29

(e.g., PEG 4000 and PEG 6000); poloxamers; polyvinyl alcohol; sodium oleate; sodium
lauryl sulfate; magnesium lauryl sulfate; and the like. One or more lubricants, if present,
typically constitute in total about 0.05% to about 10%, for example about 0.1% to about 8%,
or about 0.2% to about 5%, by weight of the composition. Magnesium stearate is a
particularly useful lubricant.
Anti-adherents
      [00149]   In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes an anti
adherent. Anti-adherents reduce sticking of a tablet formulation to equipment surfaces.
Suitable anti-adherents include, either individually or in combination, talc, colloidal silicon
dioxide, starch, DL-leucine, sodium lauryl sulfate and metallic stearates. One or more anti
adherents, if present, typically constitute in total about 0.1% to about 10%, for example about
0.1% to about 5%, or about 0.1% to about 2%, by weight of the composition.
Glidants
      [00150]   In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
glidant. Glidants improve flow properties and reduce static in a tableting mixture. Suitable
glidants include, either individually or in combination, colloidal silicon dioxide, starch,
powdered cellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate, magnesium trisilicate and metallic stearates. One
or more glidants, if present, typically constitute in total about 0.1% to about 10%, for
example about 0.1% to about 5%, or about 0.1% to about 2%, by weight of the composition.
Tonicity agents
      [00151]   In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
tonicity agent. A tonicity agent may be included in the formulation for stabilization.
Exemplary tonicity agents include polyols, such as mannitol, sucrose or trehalose.
Preferably, the aqueous formulation is isotonic, although hypertonic or hypotonic solutions
are contemplated. Exemplary concentrations of the polyol in the formulation may range from
about 1% to about 15% w/v.
Surfactants
      [00152]   In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation includes a
surfactant. A surfactant may also be added to reduce aggregation of the compound and/or to
                                                 30

minimize the formation of particulates in the formulation and/or to reduce adsorption.
Exemplary surfactants include nonionic surfactants such as polysorbates (e.g., polysorbate 20
or polysorbate 80) or poloxamers (e.g., poloxamer 188). Exemplary concentrations of
surfactant may range from about 0.001% to about 0.5%, or from about 0.005% to about
0.2%, or alternatively from about 0.004% to about 0.01% w/v.
Preservatives
      [00153]    In various aspects, a pharmaceutical composition formulation is essentially
free of one or more preservatives, such as benzyl alcohol, phenol, m-cresol, chlorobutanol
and benzethonium. In other aspects, , a preservative is included in the formulation, e.g., at
concentrations ranging from about 0.1% to about 2%, or alternatively from about 0.5% to
about 1%.
Sustained-release formulations
      [00154]    Sustained-release pharmaceutical composition formulations are also provided.
Suitable examples of sustained-release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid
hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody, which matrices are in the form of shaped
articles, including without limitation films, or microcapsules. Examples of sustained-release
matrices include polyesters, hydrogels (for example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl-methacrylate), or
poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Patent No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L-glutamic acid
and ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic acid-glycolic
acid copolymers such as the Lupron Depots (injectable microspheres composed of lactic
acid-glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid.
While polymers such as ethylene-vinyl acetate and lactic acid-glycolic acid enable release of
molecules for over 100 days, certain hydrogels release proteins for shorter time periods.
      [00155]    The active ingredients may also be entrapped in a microcapsule prepared, for
example, by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization, for example,
hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin-microcapsule and poly-(methylmethacrylate)
microcapsule, respectively, in colloidal drug delivery systems (for example, liposomes,
albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles and nanocapsules) or in
macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences
16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980).
                                                31

Lyophilized formulations
      [00156]   Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions in a lyophilized formulation.
The resulting lyophilizedd cake" is reconstituted prior to use. Reconstitution of the
lyophilized cake adds a volume of aqueous solution, typically equivalent to the volume
removed during lyophilization.
Dosages
      [00157]   The amount of the compound to be administered, and other administration
parameters such as frequency and duration of therapy, depend on the compound or prodrug
intended for use, and on other factors such as the route of administration, dose intervals,
excretion rate, formulation of the compound, the recipient, age, body weight, sex, diet,
medical history, and general state (e.g., health) of the subject being treated of the recipient,
the severity of the disease, and/or the size, malignancy and invasiveness of a tumor to be
treated The compound is thus administered at a dosage sufficient to achieve a desired
therapeutic or prophylactic effect and is determined on a case-by-case basis.
      [00158]   In some embodiments, the compound is administered at a dosage of about 1.0
pg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to about
50 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, about
0.01 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, about 0.05 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg to about
200 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, about
0.5 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, about 1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, or about 2 mg/kg to about 10
mg/kg.
      [00159]   Administration is contemplated in a regiment that is daily; two, three, or four
times daily; alternating days; every third day; or 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 times per week; weekly; twice
a month; monthly or more or less frequently, as necessary, depending on the response or
condition and the recipient tolerance of the therapy. Maintenance dosages over a longer
period of time, such as 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 or 12 weeks or longer are contemplated, and dosages
may be adjusted as necessary. The progress of the therapy is monitored by conventional
techniques and assays, and is within the skill in the art.
      [00160]   The following examples are given merely to illustrate the present invention
and not in any way to limit its scope.
                                                 32

                                           EXAMPLES
                                           EXAMPLE 1
      [00161]    To investigate the potential therapeutic effect of ATR-101 in a mouse model
of adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), xenografts of the human ACC-derived cell line H295R
in SCID mice (6-7 week males) were established. After the xenografts had grown to
measurable size, the mice were randomized in two groups. The treatment group was
administered 300 mg/kg/day ATR-101 by oral gavage. The control group was administered
the vehicle without ATR-101. The tumor size was measured using calipers before and on the
indicated days after starting administration of ATR-101.
      [00162]    Four of the mice in the treatment group and two of the mice in the control
group died within 2 days of transferring the mice to the biohazardous agent containment
facility and initiating administration. The cause(s) of these deaths are unknown, but
unrelated to ATR-101 treatment. These mice were excluded from the analysis.
      [00163]    One of the mice in the treatment group and two of the mice in the control
group died six days after beginning treatment. The tumors of the mice surviving in the
treatment group decreased in size by 50% (n=3, relative standard deviation 32%) at 8 days
after the start of ATR-101 administration (Fig. 1, solid lines). Meanwhile, the tumors of the
mice in the control group increased in size by 400% (n=4, relative standard deviation 160%)
in the same period (Fig. 1, dashed lines). The reproducibility of tumor measurements was
corroborated by successive measurements 2 and 1 days before starting administration and
again 6 and 8 days after starting administration. The body condition score (BCS) of mice in
the treatment group (3.0) was also higher than that of mice in the control group (2.0).
      [00164]    The deaths of a large proportion of the mice coincident with the start of
administration of vehicle and of ATR- 101 caused us to change the formulation of ATR- 101
from in 10% DMSO, 0.9% NaCl, 0.5% CMC pH3.9, 0.2% Tween-20 (Formulation I) to 0.5%
CMC pH 1.9, 0.2% Tween-20 (Formulation II) after the first week of ATR-101
administration (Fig. 1). The tumors of the mice in the treatment group resumed growth
within two days of the change in formulation, but the sizes of the tumors in this group were
significantly smaller than those of the mice in the control group 15 days after beginning of
ATR-101 administration (p<0.05).
                                                 33

      [00165]    ATR-101 administration to mice with ACC-derived cell line xenografts
rapidly and reproducibly caused regression of the xenograft to less than half of its size prior
to the start of ATR-101 administration in all mice with tumors smaller than 300 mm3 . In two
mice with tumors of 300 mm 3 and 900 mm 3 ATR-101 administration did not halt the tumor
growth and the mice quickly became moribund. Regression of H295R cell xenografts has not
been reported in previous studies using other agents, including mitotane as well as drugs
presently in clinical trials (Barlaskar, F.M., et al., J. Clin. Endocrinol.Metab., 94(1):204-12,
2009; Luconi, M., et al., Endocr. Relat. Cancer, 17(1):169-77, 2010). These results
supported advancing ATR-101 to clinical trials subject to determination of the dose-response
relationship and extension of toxicology studies to establish the therapeutic window for ATR
101.
      [00166]    In both experiments, the therapeutic effect of ATR-101 was maximal 6-8 days
after the start of ATR-101 administration. In both experiments the tumors resumed growth 7
9 days after the start of ATR-101 administration and exceeded pre-treatment size 8-15 days
after the start of ATR-101 administration. Some of the tumors in the treated mice reached a
size comparable to the tumors in the control mice 15 days after the start of ATR-101
administration. The reason(s) for the resumption of tumor growth and the relapse of the mice
are unknown. Because of the reproducibility of the time-course of the relapse and the rapid
expansion to pre-treatment size, it is unlikely that the relapse is due to genetic changes in the
tumor cells.
      [00167]    The H295R cell line is the one ACC-derived cell line that is generally
accepted to retain many of the characteristics of ACC tumor cells. A single primary
xenograft of ACC tumor cells isolated from a patient has been reported in the literature
(Yamazaki, H., et al., APMIS, 106(7-12):1056-1060, 1998). The primary xenograft exhibited
growth within 8 days of implantation. The small number of cases where primary ACC
tumors are available makes studies using primary tumor cells difficult.
                                           EXAMPLE 2
      [00168]    To determine if the effects of ATR-101 on ACC-derived cell line
xenotransplants were reproducible, the experiment using xenotransplants of the same H295R
cell line in SCID mice (10-11 week males) were repeated.
                                                 34

      [00169]  One of the mice in the treatment group had a large tumor produced by H295R
cells implanted 4 weeks earlier. This mouse died 6 days after ATR-101 administration and is
not included in the analysis. The tumors of the remaining mice in the treatment group (n=2)
decreased to undetectable size at six days after the start of ATR-101 administration (Fig. 2).
Meanwhile, the tumors of the mice in the control group (n=2) more than doubled in size. The
tumors of the mice in the treatment group resumed growth within eight days after the start of
ATR-101 administration. The tumors of the treated mice were one-eighth to one-third of the
size of the tumors in the control mice 13 days after the start of ATR-101 administration. The
resumption of tumor growth coincided with the switch to a new batch of ATR- 101. This
batch was prepared using ATR-101 from the same synthesis using the same protocol, with
the exception that the preparation was not incubated overnight before the first dose was
administered six days after the start of ATR-101 administration.
      [00170]  Both experiments were conducted with small numbers of mice in both the
treatment and the control groups. There are several reasons for the small groups of mice used
in these experiments. In addition to limited resources/personnel, only a portion of the mice
(23/25) survived transport. Also, a subpopulation of the mice (16/23) developed tumors, and
many mice died during the first two days after transfer into the containment facility for ATR
101 administration, leaving a small number with measurements after the start of treatment
(10/16 and 5/7).
      [00171]  Post-mortem analysis of the tumors and organs of mice from the treatment and
control groups of the first experiment confirmed that the tumors of surviving mice in the
treatment group (mean 0.71 g, standard deviation of the mean 0.13 g) were significantly
(p<0.05) smaller than the tumors of mice in the control group (mean 1.23 g, standard
deviation of the mean 0.28 g) (Fig. 3). Tumor morphology was not detectably different
between the treatment and control groups. The total body weight of the mice in the treatment
group (mean 24 g, standard deviation of the mean 1 g) was significantly higher than that of
mice in the control group (mean 19 g, standard deviation of the mean 3 g). This difference in
body weight could reflect the greater tumor burden of mice in the control group.
                                               35

                                          EXAMPLE 3
     [00172]    Xenograft size was measured using calipers as a function of time after the start
of oral administration of 300 mg/kg/day ATR-101 (triangles) versus control mice treated with
vehicle (circles) (Fig. 4). The data show the average and standard deviation of 9 and 10 mice
in each group. One mouse included in the treatment group was eliminated because the
abdominal location of the xenograft prevented accurate measurement of its size. The 20 mice
were randomized between the treatment and control arms of the study. The xenografts were
produced by subcutaneous injection of 100,000,000 H295R cells in each mouse.
                                          EXAMPLE 4
     [00173]    Xenograft size was measured using calipers as a function of time after the start
of oral administration of 300 mg/kg/day ATR- 101 + 300 mg/kg/day metformin (spheres)
versus control mice treated with vehicle (circles) (Fig. 5). The data show the average and
standard deviation of 3 and 10 mice in each group. The two groups of mice were injected
and reared together, but were not randomized as part of the same group of mice The
xenografts were produced by subcutaneous injection of 100,000,000 H295R cells in each
mouse.
                                          EXAMPLE 5
     [00174]    Xenograft size was measured using calipers as a function of time after the start
of oral administration of 300 mg/kg/day PD132301-02 + 4 mg/kg/day everolimus (squares)
versus control mice treated with vehicle (circles) (Fig. 6). The data show the average and
standard deviation of 3 and 10 mice in each group. The two groups of mice were injected
and reared together, but were not randomized as part of the same group of mice The
xenografts were produced by subcutaneous injection of 100,000,000 H295R cells in each
mouse.
                                          EXAMPLE 6
     [00175]    To investigate the potential therapeutic benefit of ATR-101 in the
establishment of ACC xenografts in a mouse model of ACC, ACC-derived cell line H295R
was injected in SCID mice (6-7 week males). 1 x 108 cells in 0.2ml DMEM were injected
                                                36

under the skin in the right dorsal flank regions of SCID mice. Two weeks after injection, the
mice were randomized in groups of 10. ATR- 101 was administered at 700 mg/kg/day for 4
days, followed by 300 mg/kg/day by oral gavage in 10% DMSO, 0.5% CMC, 0.9% NaCl,
0.2% Tween, pH 3. Control mice were administered vehicle. The tumor size was measured
using calipers three times a week. Urinary cortisol was measured at various time points after
start of ATR-101 or vehicle administration.
      [00176]   Of the 10 mice treated with vehicle, 7 developed palpable xenografts within
50 days after injection. Five of the mice were euthanized as moribund with xenografts larger
than 2,000 mm3 by 100 days after injection. Of the 10 mice treated with ATR-101, 2
developed palpable xenografts and the median time until xenograft formation was more than
twice as long as for the vehicle-treated group. All the mice were alive 100 days after
injection, and the 2 xenografts had not grown to 500 mm 3 (Figure 7). There was no
significant difference in the body weights of the mice treated with vehicle versus ATR-101.
ATR-101 treatment therefore inhibited xenograft establishment, reduced the rate of xenograft
growth, and extended survival of SCID mice injected with ACC-derived cells.
      [00177]   Approximately 60% of all adrenocortical carcinomas exhibit signs of hormone
excess, most commonly cortisol (Peppa et al., Cases J. 2:8951, 2009). In some cases,
Cushing's syndrome may be caused by an ACC producing excessive cortisol. The original
H295 cell line was isolated from an ACC which produced excessive cortisol (Gazdar et al.,
CancerRes. 50:5488-5496, 1990). H295R cell line continues to exhibit cortisol production
(Samandari et al., J. Endocrinol. 195:459-472, 2007). Urinary cortisol levels were measured
several times starting 22 days after cell injection (8 days after the start of ATR-101 or vehicle
administration) (Figure 8). The urinary cortisol levels in mice treated with vehicle varied in
relation to the sizes of their xenografts. The average urinary cortisol levels of mice treated
with ATR-101 were lower than those of mice that were administered vehicle. Thus, ATR
101 treatment reduced the level of cortisol produced by H295R cells xenografted into SCID
mice.
                                           EXAMPLE 7
      [00178]   The effects of a high dose of ATR-101 on ACC-derived xenotransplants in
SCID mice were also studied. Xenografts were produced as previously described with 3
                                                 37

mice in the ATR-101 treated group and 3 mice in the control group. As shown in Figure 9,
xenograft size was measured using calipers as a function of time after the start of oral
administration of 1,000 mg/kg/day ATR-101 (squares) versus control mice treated with
vehicle (diamonds). ATR-101 administration at a high dose (1,000 mg/kg/day) significantly
reduced tumor growth as compared to vehicle treated controls. As shown in Figure 10,
xenograft weights were measured in 1,000 mg/kg/day ATR-101 treated mice versus vehicle
treated control mice.
                                          EXAMPLE 8
      [00179]   The mechanism of ATR-101 cytotoxicity was investigated by measuring its
effects on the ATP levels and on the reducing activities of ACC-derived H295R cells grown
in normal and cholesterol-depleted conditions.
      [00180]   To measure ATP levels and reducing potentials of H295R cells, these cells
were cultured in 96-well flat bottom cell culture plates (BD Biosciences) plated at 50,000
cells in 100pl. The cells were plated in DMEM media without glucose (GIBCO 11966) + 10
mM galactose + 5 mM sodium-HEPES + 2 mM glutamine (addition) + 1 mM sodium
pyruvate + 100U/ml penicillin/streptomycin + either 0% or 5% fetal calf serum. After
overnight (16-20h) incubation, 20 l of medium containing 5% fetal calf serum as well as the
aliquots of ATR-101 required to produce the final concentrations were added to the cells. To
measure ATP levels, 100     l of the CellTiter-Glo@ (Promega Corp., Madison, WI) reagent
was added to lyse the cells at the indicated times, and luciferin luminescence was measured to
determine the amount of ATP in the lysate. To measure reducing activity, PrestoBlue@ Cell
Viability reagent (Life Technologies Corp.) was added to the cells immediately after ATR
101. The cells were incubated at 37'C with C0 2 , and resorufin fluorescence was measured at
the times indicated.
      [00181]   Addition of ATR-101 to H295R cells reduced the luminescence signal of the
ATP-dependent luciferase assay in a time- and concentration-dependent manner (Figure
11A). 16 pM ATR-101 had a half-maximal effect in 4 hours. In the same time, 64 M ATR
101 reduced the luminescence signal by about 90%. These results indicate that ATR-101
caused rapid depletion of ATP in H295R cells.
                                                38

      [00182]    Cellular reducing activity was determined by measuring resazurin reduction
using the PrestoBlue@ Cell Viability Reagent (Invitrogen). Addition of up to 8 PM ATR-101
to H295R cells increased the fluorescence signal in a time- and concentration-dependent
manner, whereas higher ATR-101 concentrations reduced the fluorescence (Figure 11B).
The opposite effects of different concentrations of ATR-101 on resazurin reducing activity
suggest that ATR-101 has multiple effects on cells. Low to moderate concentrations of ATR
101 increased reducing activity, but had little effect on ATP levels. High concentrations of
ATR-101 reduced both reducing activity and ATP levels, presumably because of a decrease
in cell viability.
      [00183]    To investigate the mechanism whereby ATR-101 kills cells in culture, the
effects of cholesterol depletion on the ATP levels of H295R cells cultured in the presence of
ATR-101 was investigated. The cells were cultured in the presence of methyl- -cyclodextrin
(MPCD), which can sequester cholesterol and thereby deplete free cholesterol in the cells.
The level of ATP in H295R cells was not significantly altered by culture in the presence of 2
mM MPCD (Figure 12B). Significantly, the ATP levels of cells cultured in the presence of
MPCD were unaffected by up to 32 pM ATR-101. MPCD increased the concentration of
ATR- 101 required for half-maximal depletion of ATP levels more than 4-fold.
      [00184]    To determine if the effect of MPCD on ATR-101 cytotoxicity was due to
cholesterol depletion, H295R cells were cultured in the presence of the equivalent amount of
MPCD complexed with cholesterol (Figure 12C). Parallel analysis of these cells
demonstrated that MPCD complexed with cholesterol alone reduced the ATP levels of
H295R cells. Treatment of the cells with ATR-101 caused a further reduction in the level of
ATP in the cells. The protection of H295R cells from the cytotoxicity of ATR-101 by culture
in the presence of MPCD was therefore due to cholesterol depletion in these cells.
      [00185]    To determine if the culture of H295R cells in the presence of MPCD altered
ATR-101 entry into cells, the effects of MPCD on ATR-101 induced changes in reducing
activity were examined (Figure 12D-F). Culture in the presence of MPCD alone had little
effect on the reducing activity of the cells (Figure 12E). MPCD did not suppress the increase
in resazurin reducing activity caused by ATR-101. Rather, cells cultured in the presence of
MPCD exhibited a larger increase in reducing activity in response to ATR-101, potentially
caused by MPCD suppression of ATR-101 cytotoxicity. Cells cultured in the presence of
                                                 39

MPCD complexed with cholesterol exhibited lower reducing activities both in the absence
and in the presence of ATR- 101. The reduction in reducing activity was likely related to the
reduction in ATP levels caused by MPCD complexed with cholesterol.
     [00186]    The results indicate that the reduction in ATP levels is not directly related to
changes in the reducing activities of the cells, and the mechanism of ATR-101 cytotoxicity is
not determined solely by inhibition of respiration even though ATR- 101 is known to inhibit
complex II of the electron transport chain in isolated mitochondria. In combination, these
results demonstrate that MPCD does not prevent the entry of ATR-101 into H295R cells, and
that MPCD protection from ATR-101 cytotoxicity is likely due to sequestration of free
cholesterol in the cells.
                                           EXAMPLE 9
     [00187]    Basal and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated cortisol levels
were measured in dogs at pre-test and 1, 7, 14, and 28 days during ATR-101 treatment at
various doses (0 mg/kg/day, 0.3 mg/kg/day, 3 mg/kg/day, and 30 mg/kg/day). 6
dogs/sex/dosage group were studied. After 28 days of treatment, 4 dogs/sex/group were
euthanized, while 2 dogs/sex/group/ had a 4-week drug-free recovery period and then were
euthanized. Plasma cortisol concentrations (ng/ml) in male and female dogs were determined
prior to ACTH stimulation and 0.5 and 1 hour after ACTH stimulation. Marked drug
associated decreases in ACTH responses occurred in ATR-10 1-treated male and female dogs
at 3 mg/kg/day and 30 mg/kg/day beginning day 7 of treatment, continuing through day 14
and day 28 of treatment (Figures 13 and 14). At days 42 and 56 during the recovery period,
reversal of the cortisol- suppressive effects is observed (Figures 13 and 14).
                                          EXAMPLE 10
     [00188]    Left and right adrenal glands from dogs treated with a high dose 300
mg/kg/day of ATR-101 for 28 days and control animals were collected at necropsy and fixed
in 10% neutral buffered formalin, processed by routine paraffin technique, sectioned
longitudinally, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin for routine light microscopy (Figures
15A-E). Significant effects were observed in the adrenal gland of dogs treated with ATR-101
at day 28, including fibrosis (deposition of loose to compact fibrovascular tissue within the
                                                  40

corticomedullary junction), vacuolation (intracytoplasmic small to medium-sized clear
vacuoles within the cytoplasm of the zona fasciculata and zone reticularis of the cortex), and
cortical atrophy (decreased thickness of the adrenal cortex due to decreased cell size and
numbers of cells comprising the zona fasciculata and zona reticularis) (Figures 15D, 15E).
                                         EXAMPLE 11
      [00189]   Left and right adrenal glands from male and female dogs treated with various
doses of ATR-101 (0 mg/kg/day, 0.3 mg/kg/day, 3 mg/kg/day, or 30 mg/kg/day) for 28 days
were collected at necropsy and weighed. Dose-related changes in adrenal gland weights
occurred in both sexes (Figures 16A and 17A). Absolute and relative (adrenal-to-body
(Adrenal:BW(%)) and adrenal-to-brain (Adrenal:BrW) weight ratios) adrenal weights were
decreased 14% to 55% in both sexes at >3mg/kg/day (Figures 16A-C and 17A-C). After the
4 week recovery period, adrenal weights remained decreased 6% to 11% in males at 3
mg/kg/day and 10% to 32% in both sexes at 30 mg/kg/day. Adrenal weight changes were
associated with histologic changes including adrenal cortical atrophy, fibrosis, and
vacuolation in both sexes at >3mg/kg/day as described in Example 10 (Figures 15A-E).
Histologic changes in the adrenal glands persisted after the recovery period.
                                         EXAMPLE 12
      [00190]   Tissue distribution of ATR-101 in 3 rats and 3 dogs was examined. ATR-101
concentrations were measured in plasma, red blood cells, adrenal gland, liver, kidney,
skeletal muscle, ovary, subcutaneous fat, and cerebral spinal fluid. Figure 18 shows tissue
distribution of ATR- 101 in female rats (ng/mL or ng/g) administered 100 mg/kg/day for 7
days. ATR-101 concentrations in rats were higher in adrenal gland (-2X) and ovary (-1.4X)
than in plasma. Figure 19 shows tissue distribution of ATR-101 in female dogs (ng/mL or
ng/g) administered 3 mg/kg/day for 7 days. ATR-101 concentrations in dogs were similar in
adrenal gland and plasma. ATR- 101 concentrations in the adrenal glands of rats and dogs do
not correspond with the relative sensitivities of these species to adrenal toxicity, suggesting
that tissue accumulation alone does not explain the adrenolytic mechanism(s) of action.
Figure 20 shows tissue distribution of ATR-101 in rats and dogs as a percentage of plasma
concentration. ATR-101 does not appear to cross the blood-brain barrier in either species.
                                                41

Low levels of ATR-101 that were observed in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) of rats were
likely caused by contamination of CSF with blood.
      [00191]    All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were
individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in
its entirety herein.
      [00192]    The use of the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar referents in the
context of describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to
be construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or
clearly contradicted by context. The terms "comprising," "having," "including," and
"containing" are to be construed as open-ended terms (i.e., meaning "including, but not
limited to,") unless otherwise noted.
      [00193]    Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range and
each endpoint, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value and endpoint is
incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein.
      [00194]    All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless
otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and
all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely to
better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention
unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating
any non-claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.
      [00195]    Veronica Burns and Yunhui Cheng are thanked for their work on the
experiments in H295R cells and xenografts, performed under the direct supervision of Tom
Kerppola.
     [00196]     All embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the best
mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred
embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as
appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as
                                                 42

ll:\szp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\15981688_l.docx-l7/ I/2017
specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it)
or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
                                                              - 43 -

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.         A method for treating benign adenoma in a patient comprising administering a
   therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl)-NL((1 -(4
   (dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient.
   2.         A method for treating increased hormone production in a patient comprising
   administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl)-NL
   ((1-(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient.
   3.         A method for treating Cushing' s syndrome in a patient comprising
   administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl)-NL
   ((1-(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient.
   4.         A method for treating excess cortisol production in a patient comprising
   administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl)-NL
   ((1-(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient.
   5.         A method for treating symptoms associated with excess cortisol production in
   a patient comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1
   methylethyl)phenyl)-NL((1 -(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopent yl)-methyl)urea
   hydrochloride to the patient.
   6.         A method for treating hyperaldosteronism in a patient comprising
   administering a therapeutically effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl)-NL
   ((1-(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient.
   7.         The method of any one of claims 1-6 further comprising administering a
   second therapeutic agent.
                                             44

8.          The method of claim 7, wherein the second therapeutic agent is a
chemotherapeutic agent.
9.          The method of claim 7, wherein the second therapeutic agent is mitotane.
10.         A method of inhibiting aberrant adrenal hormone production in a patient
comprising administering an effective amount of N-(2,6-bis(1-methylethyl)phenyl)-N'
((1 -(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopentyl)-methyl)urea hydrochloride to the patient to
inhibit hormone production.
11.         The method of claim 10, further comprising administering a second
therapeutic agent.
12.         The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the hormone is a mineralocorticoid, a
glucocorticoid, or an androgen
13.         The method of claim 12, wherein the mineralocorticoid is aldosterone.
14.         The method of claim 12, wherein the androgen is androstenedione,
dehydroepiandrosterone, or adrenosterone.
15.         The method of claim 12, wherein the glucocorticoid is cortisol.
16.         The method of any one of claims 1-6 or 10 wherein the patient suffers from a
condition selected from the group consisting of:
            - Cushing' s syndrome;
            - Excess cortisol production;
            - ACTH excess that results in adrenal cortisol excess;
            - Pituitary ACTH excess (Pituitary Cushing' s Disease);
            - Ectopic ACTH syndrome;
            - Primary Adrenal Cortisol Excess;
                                           45

          - ACTH independent macronodular hyperplasia (always bilateral); and
          - 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
17.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, 10, or 16, wherein administering is oral
administration.
18.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, 10 or 16, wherein N-(2,6-bis(1
methylethyl)phenyl)-N'((1 -(4-(dimethylamino)phenyl)cyclopent yl)-methyl)urea
hydrochloride is administered one, two, three or four times daily.
19.       The method of claim 7, wherein the second therapeutic agent is selected from
the group consisting of:
          Mifepristone;
          a chemotherapeutic agent;
          Metformin;
          Everolimus;
          a targeting agent;
          an adrenolysis agent; and
          an IGF1R antagonist.
                                         46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
