ABSTRACT
A collapsible boat hull 10 has a pair of bottom panels 12,14 with a first continuous
hinge along an inner edge thereof 16 and a second continuous hinge 17,19 along
each outer edge thereof connecting to respective side panels 18,20. A flexible
material 30 forms the hinge line, supported either side by a support material
36,38. The flexible hinge accommodates curvature of the panels when the hull is
erected to its boat shape. The support material can be glass fibre or polymeric
material, such as polyethylene, PVC or polypropylene. The hinge can be 'W'
shape in cross section and can form a ridge 40 into the boat, and can be bonded
to the respective panels e.g. by glass fibre to the panels. Hinge
strengtheners/protectors can be provided, such as additional ribs 52,54 bonded
to or integral to the hinge protective material.

3/5
            /1
     Sii!
          1
               Figi
   4 CI

                                             1
COLLAPSIBLE BOAT HULL HINGE ARRANGEMENT
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to a hinge arrangement between panels
of a collapsible boat hull.
[0002]     The present invention also relates to a collapsible boat hull
incorporating such hinge arrangement(s).
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0003]      It is known to provide collapsible boat hulls, comprising a pair of
hingedly interconnected bottom panels and a pair of side panels hinged to the
bottom panels. Such boats can be collapsed and folded along the hinging edges
of the panels into a substantially flat configuration.
[0004]     Typically collapsible boat hulls are also provided with a stern member
functioning as a transom, a bow member, and seats which are mounted onto the
boat hull when the boat hull is in an erected configuration.
[0005]      It is important that the junction between the boat hull and the bow
member, and the boat hull and the stern member, are leak-proof. Provision is
generally also made to mount an outboard motor on the stern member.
[0006]     Some collapsible boat hulls are provided with rigid stern members,
while others are provided with diaphragms that can accommodate rigid panels,
which rigidify and stabilise the diaphragm when an outboard motor is mounted
thereon.

                                            2
[0007]       Further, the collapsible boat hulls of the prior art, when arranged in
their erected configuration, are generally flexible rather than rigid, leading to poor
handling in the water.
[0008]       Some collapsible boats have a hull formed of a waterproof(ed) flexible
fabric membrane stretched covering a framework to form the hull.
[0009]       Other collapsible boat hulls use panels that are slotted together and
have seals between panels, with some form of strapping or locking mechanism
holding the panels together.
[0010]       Yet other collapsible boat hulls have some form of foldable hinges
between side and bottom panels of the hull to allow what is essentially a one
piece hull to erect for use and be folded down for transport and storage. Such
hulls avoid the problems associated with having to join panels together in situ and
ensure that the seals do not leak in use. Such hulls also avoid the risk of
puncture associated with all fabric hull skins.
[0011]       However, such hinges need to be sufficiently robust to withstand use
when the boat is propelled and used in the water (such as external wave impact
and internal weight of users in the boat), and yet be flexible to allow erection and
folding down.
[0012]       Previous attempts at creating flexible hinges are resulted in
cumbersome, heavy or unreliable hinges.
[0013]       Continuous extruded hinges with resilient spines have been proposed
in at least earlier patent application. However, such continuous extruded hinges
tend to be heavy, relatively costly to manufacture and install and not aesthetically
pleasing, as well as not providing a required rigidity or sufficiently improving
rigidity to the hull.

                                           3
[0014]      With these problems in mind, it has been found desirable to develop a
hinge for a collapsible boat hull that provides a requisite degree of flexibility,
longevity or rigidity to the hull.
[0015]      It has also been found desirable to develop a hinge for a collapsible
boat hull that contributes to functional configuration or geometry of the hull.
[0016]      The present invention attempts to overcome at least in part some of
the aforementioned disadvantages.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0017]      With the aforementioned in view, an aspect of the present invention
provides a collapsible boat hull including two bottom panels and two opposed
side panels, the bottom panels connected to each other by a first continuous
flexible hinge along adjoining longitudinal edges of the bottom panels, and each
bottom panel connected to an adjacent side panel by a respective second
continuous flexible hinge.
[0018]      In accordance a further aspect of the present invention there is
provided a collapsible boat hull comprising: a pair of bottom panels, each bottom
panel having a first continuous hinge along an inner edge thereof and a second
continuous hinge along an outer edge thereof; and a pair of side panels, each
side panel being connected to an adjacent bottom panel along a respective
second continuous hinge.
[0019]      Another aspect of the present invention provides a collapsible boat hull
including a pair of bottom panels joined by a flexible first continuous hinge, the
flexible hinge permitting the pair of panels to be moved between a collapsed
configuration and an erected configuration of the hull and wherein the flexible
hinge facilitates or accommodates curving of at least a portion of the panels when
the panels are moved to the erected configuration.

                                             4
[0020]       Thus, the bottom panels can be moved from a flat folded orientation to
a curved erected orientation of the hull, with the flexible hinge(s) retaining its/their
integrity.
[0021]       A second continuous hinge may be provided along a respective outer
edge of each said bottom panel. A pair of side panels may be provided, each
connected to an adjacent said bottom panel along a respective said second
continuous hinge, each said second continuous hinge being flexible and
facilitating curving of at least a portion of the side panels with the bottom panels
when the hull is in the erected configuration.
[0022]       The bottom and/or side panels may be formed of or incorporate a
composite material, such as a polymer or resin impregnated foam board.
Alternatively, the or each panel may include or be formed of core material (such
as a honeycomb material), preferably having an outer polymeric coating/jacket
with preferably a polymeric honeycomb (such as a foam) core. Preferably the
honeycomb core is of polypropylene, and the coating/jacket may be a solid or
skin of polyester or PVC or the like. Further alternatives for the panel core
include aramid polymer(s), para-aramid polymer(s), Nomex (RTM), paper
impregnated with phenolic resin, or aluminium, or expanded PVC foam.
[0023]       The flexible first continuous hinge is desirably continuous along the
length of the boat hull and forms a keel hinge at the bottom of the boat.
[0024]       The first continuous hinge may form a keel hinge at the bottom of the
boat. The second hinges may form respective chine hinges at the transition
between the side panels and respective bottom panel.
[0025]       The first and second continuous hinges may have resilient flexibility
along respective longitudinal and transverse planes thereof, thereby facilitating
the bottom and side panels to be moved between a folded configuration and an
erected configuration.

                                           5
[0026]      The or each aforementioned continuous hinge may also be or include
a flexible hinge. Thus, the first continuous hinge may be or include a flexible first
continuous hinge and the second continuous hinge may be or include a flexible
second continuous hinge. Therefore, each of the first and second continuous
hinges may be or include a respective flexible hinge.
[0027]      The or each flexible hinge advantageously enables the boat hull to
move from a substantially flat configuration to form a conventional boat hull shape
when erected. The flexible hinge facilitates bending of the pair of panels into the
shape of a hull as the panels are moved to the erected configuration.
[0028]      Advantageously, this allows the boat hull to move from a substantially
flat configuration when folded to form a conventional hull shape when erected.
[0029]      The flexible hinge may include a flexible sheet or web forming a hinge
line between adjacent connected panels. The flexible sheet or web may include a
shear resistant material. Preferably the sheet or web is or includes polyester
(woven or continuous sheet), or an advanced composite fibre material, such as
Kevlar or glass fibre, or polyester coated glass fibre, or a polymeric material
coating or impregnating a flexible sheet material, such as polyester or kevlar.
Alternatively, the flexible hinge may include a polyester fabric coated with a
polymer, such as PVC, rubber, neoprene, rubber and neoprene combinations
(e.g. Hypalon (RTM)). Thus, the material at the core of the hinge is protected by
the coating or impregnation.
[0030]      The flexible hinge may include a support material extending along the
hinge adjacent the hinge line. Thus, the flexible sheet or web may form the hinge
line whilst the support material runs along the longitudinal extent of the hinge and
closely adjacent the hinge line. The support material of the hinge may be
provided by one or more rods of resilient or flexible material, which may be flat in
section or round.

                                           6
[0031]      Preferably the support material includes or is a glass fibre or polymeric
material, such as polyethylene, PVC or polypropylene, or a rubber or silicone
based material.
[0032]      To accommodate shape of the boat hull in the erected configuration,
where the bottom panels are substantially flat towards a stern of the boat and
curved towards a bow of the boat hull, the flexible hinge advantageously changes
shape or flexes along the length of the hull as the panels are moved between the
collapsed and erected configurations. That is, the flexible hinge adopts different
configuration or geometry at different locations along the length of the hull. Thus,
the flexible hinge adopts a first configuration towards the stern and a second
configuration towards the bow when the panels are in the erected configuration.
[0033]      Advantageously, the flexible hinge flexes substantially along the hinge
line as the panels are moved from collapsed to erected configuration to create a
shape or configuration that contributes to functional configuration or geometry of
the hull.
[0034]      The hinge between the adjacent bottom panels may form an internal
ridge along the interior of the bottom of the hull when the boat hull is erected.
Thus, with the hull erected, the bottom panels may angle downward from the side
panels and meet at the keel hinge. The support material may then project
upwards towards the interior of the boat hull and the sheet or web material forms
the hinge line extending along the hinge. This 'W' form hinge arrangement
provides additional strength and rigidity to the boat hull compared with a flat hinge
arrangement.
[0035]      At the bow, when the hull is erected, the support material may adopt a
configuration where the sheet or web material projects substantially downwardly
from the interior of the boat hull and the sheet or web material again forms the
hinge line extending along the hinge. That is, the support material and hence the

                                            7
hinge forms an external ridge along this portion of the exterior of the bottom of the
hull.
[0036]      Along the bow, the hinge preferably thus forms a 'V' arrangement
which advantageously allows the bow to cut into the water and into waves when
the boat is not planing.
[0037]      Towards an outermost end of the bow, with the hull erected, the
support material may adopt a configuration where the sheet or web material is
substantially flat across and between the pair of panels and across the hinge line.
In adopting this flat arrangement, the support material is under traction, which is
an advantageous state for this portion of the boat where there is highest tension
stress.
[0038]      Advantageously, the flexing of the hinge as the panels are positioned
into the erected configuration and the subsequent configuration that the hinge
adopts at different locations on the hull, minimises stress applied to the sheet or
web material.
[0039]      The hinge may include one or more strengtheners running along the
hinge. Preferably each hinge includes a said strengthener either side of the hinge
line.
[0040]      The stengthener may be in the form of or include or have applied a rib
running along the continuous hinge. The rib may be provided along the hinge on
the interior side of the hull, or along the hinge on the exterior of the hull, or both
on the interior and exterior.
[0041]      Each rib may be provided as a triangular section elongate member,
which may form part of a moulding of the protective material.       Each rib may be a
rod of flexible material, which may preferably be flat or round in cross section.

                                            8
The or each rib may be formed of a resilient and/or strong material providing
additional strength and stability to the hinge.
[0042]       The support material may entrap the sheet or web of material forming
the hinge line and linking the adjacent panels.
[0043]       The strengthener provides flexion along the length of the protective
material. As the strengthener has to flex along the length of the hinge to
accommodate the change of geometry with the panel flexing to get in the shape
of the hull, the support puts the sheet or web material in tension (in between the
flange) on most of the length of the hinge.
[0044]       The rib may be provided as a ridge (such as triangular section). The
rib may be applied as a, for example, triangular section elongate strip 20mm wide
 10mm high, 90 degrees at the top (rounded), 45 degrees at the base on each
side, about 15mm away from the hinge line on each side. The chine hinge may
have smaller ribs (such as 3mm thick).
[0045]       A further aspect of the present invention provides a collapsible boat
hull hinge, the hinge including a flexible sheet or web material for connection to
adjacent panels of the collapsible boat.
[0046]       Preferably the sheet or web is of a polyester or other polymeric
material, or carbon fibre (e.g. Kevlar) or glass fibre material, or material with
reinforcing properties equivalent to glass fibre or Kevlar, held between supporting
material along either side of the hinge line, and preferably on one or both sides of
the hinge (i.e. external or internal of the hull). The supporting material may
include PVC or other polymer that allows flexibility in the hinge for function but
provides support and structural integrity to the hinge.

                                           9
[0047]      The sheet or web may therefore provide a reinforcing function for the
hinge, which can help with flexural strength and resist frictional or impact
damage.
[0048]      An alternative sheet or web may be provided by fibre reinforced plastic
resin and/or polyester coated fabric. The fabric core may be a woven Kevlar.
The polyester coated fabric may also be used as a membrane at the stern of the
boat e.g. for waterproofing adjacent a face of the transom.
[0049]      Advantageously, the hinge flexes or changes shape substantially along
the length of the hull as the boat is erected to form the conventional hull shape.
[0050]      The flexible sheet or web may be bonded into the support materials,
and the support materials may be bonded to the respective panels either side of
the hinge line.
[0051]      The support material may include or be fibreglass or polypropylene or
other polymeric material, such as a PVC.The hinge may be formed with the
flexible material bonded into the support materials for later bonding between the
edges of the panels of the hull. The support material may be friction bonded to
the hinges and/or panels. Such friction bonding has been founded suitable for
certain applications, such as rescue boat configurations of the present invention.
[0052]      At least one of the said panels (bottom and/or side panel(s)) of the hull
may include or be formed of a core of material (preferably having a honeycomb
structure) coated or impregnated with a polymer. The (honeycomb) core may be
or include PVC or polypropylene material. The polymer coating or impregnation
material may be or include a resin, such as epoxy, or polymer such as polyester.
[0053]      A further aspect of the present invention provides a flexible hinge for a
collapsible boat hull having at least two panels to be hinged by the flexible hinge
for erecting and collapsing the boat hull, the flexible hinge including a flexible

                                          10
material forming a hinge line along the flexible hinge, and support material either
side of the hinge line, the support material providing structural support. The
flexible hinge may include a flexible protective material extending over or through
the flexible material of the hinge line.
[0054]      The support material of the flexible hinge is preferably made with or
includes fibres orientated along the hinge and/or having the stiffening ribs aligned
along the hinge such that the hinge predominantly flexes along the line of the
hinge and has restricted flexure across the hinge (and so avoids the typical
undulation/bulging experienced in isotropic material without
stiffening/corrugation).
[0055]      The flexible hinge may include at least one strengthener orientated
extending along a length of the flexible hinge. At least one said strengthener may
be positioned adjacent the hinge line, preferably external of the hull. The flexible
hinge may have fibres integral to the hinge orientated along the hinge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0056]      One or more embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be
described with reference to the accompanying figure, in which:
[0057]      Figure 1 shows a boat hull erected but with the transom and bow
members to be installed, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0058]      Figure 2 shows a boat hull erected with the transom and bow members
being installed, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0059]      Figure 3 shows a cross section through a collapsible boat hull showing
hinges according to a hinge arrangement according to an embodiment of the
present invention. Chine hinge marked 'A' is shown in more detail in Figure 4,
and central (keel) hinge marked 'B' is shown in figure 5.

                                             11
[0060]      Figures 4 and 5 shows detail of various hinges according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0061]      Figure 6 shows the boat hull folded to a transport/storage configuration
and incorporating the hinge according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0062]      Figures 7 and 8 show alternative embodiments of a hinge of the
present invention incorporating support ribs.
[0063]      Figure 9 shows a side view of a collapsible boat hull in an erected
configuration, illustrating portions of flexible hull which exhibit varying shape when
the hull is erected according to an embodiment of the present invention;
[0064]      Figure 10 shows cross sections through a collapsible boat hull showing
flexible hinge at 'A', 'B' and 'C' of Figure 9; and
[0065]      Figure 11 shows an underside of the collapsible boat hull in the
erected configuration and illustrating location of 'A', 'B' and 'C' of Figure 9.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0066]      Figures 1 and 2 show an erected collapsible boat hull 10. The hull has
two bottom panels 12,14 connected along their inside edges by a central flexible
hinge 16. Two side panels 18,20 are connected to respective outside edges of
the bottom panels by chine hinges 22,24.
[0067]      Figure 1 shows the hull 10 without a removable transom or bow
member installed. Figure 2 shows the bow member 26 installed and the transom
member 28 in partially installed.
[0068]      Figure 3 shows a vertical cross section across the beam of the boat
hull. The structure of the central hinge and chine hinges is shown in more detail

                                              12
identified as sections labelled A and B, which are shown in close up in figures 4
and 5.
[0069]       Each hinge includes a flexible hinge line material 30, such as a web or
sheet of resilient material e.g. a Kevlar or glass fibre material.
[0070]       As shown with reference to figure 4, the chine hinge 17,19is provided
between the side panel 18,20 and a bottom panel 12,14. Each panel terminates
at a respective bevelled edge 32,34.
[0071]       The flexible sheet or web material 30 forms the hinge line, which is
supported on either side by a support material 36,38. The support material
preferably covers and protects the flexible hinge material apart from at the hinge
line, or is sufficiently thin at the hinge line as to not prevent flexure of the hinge
material during opening and closing of the hull. The support material connects
the flexible hinge material to the respective side panels.
[0072]       The support material advantageously protects from impact the hinge
material by providing the two opposed extensions ('flanges') of support material
substantially cover the hinge material and only leave a small amount of the hinge
material exposed or have a thin covering of support material or other material as
a protection without functionally impairing the operation of the hinge.
[0073]       It will be appreciated that the bevelled panel edges help to create a
smooth, flush hinge-line when the boat hull is fully erected, as shown in figure 4.
[0074]       Figure 5 shows detail of the central (keel line) hinge. The support
material forms a ridge 40 projecting into the interior of the boat hull i.e. the hinge
is generally 'W' shaped in cross section. This adds strength in relation to carrying
weight in the boat and reduces stress and external (water side) exposure on the
flexible hinge material compared with a flat hinge. Construction of the hinge is
generally the same as the chine hinges, with the bottom panels edges 42,44

                                           13
bevelled. The resultant external channel 46 formed by the exterior 'valley' of the
ridge helps stability of the boat at speed.
[0075]      Preferably the hinge is bonded to the respective panels. For example,
by fibreglass bonding to composite panels. Alternatively, the support material
may support the flexible hinge material and the support material is bonded to the
panel(s), such as by a marine grade adhesive.
[0076]      Figure 6 shows the boat hull 10 in collapsed configuration ready for
transport or storage. The side panels 18,20 are folded in between the bottom
panels 12,14. The central (keel line) hinge 16 at one edge of the collapsed hull
and the two chine hinges are at the opposite end. As shown, the side panels
include gunwale edges 48,50.
[0077]      Figures 7 and 8 show strengtheners in the form of additional ribs 52,54
integrated with the protective material of each hinge. The ribs are shown on the
external (water) side of the hull, but may be provided on the interior side of the
hull, or on both interior and exterior sides.
[0078]      The ribs may be rods or other elongate members. The ribs are shown
in the figures as triangular sections, but it will be understood that other cross
sectional shapes are envisaged to fall within the scope of the present invention.
For example, curved or half round, half hexagonal, trapezium etc. The ribs
provide strength to the hinge whilst allowing flexure in the longitudinal direction of
the hinge.
[0079]      Figures 9 and 11 show an erected collapsible boat hull 110. The hull
has two bottom panels 112, 114 connected along their inside edges by a central
flexible hinge 116. Two side panels 118a, 118b are connected to respective
outside edges of the bottom panels by suitable hinges such as chine hinges.

                                          14
[0080]      Figure 10 shows a series of vertical cross sections across the beam of
the boat hull 110 and demonstrates structure of the central hinge 116 at various
locations along the length of the hull 110 when the panels 112, 114 are in an
erected configuration, forming a typical boat hull arrangement.
[0081]      Figure 10 shows central hinge structure at locations marked 'A', 'B' and
'C' on Figures 9 and 11, corresponding to: a section adjacent an outer end of the
bow; a section at the bow; and a section towards the stern of the boat hull 110
respectively.
[0082]      The hinge 116 includes a flexible hinge line material 120, such as a
web or sheet of or including a flexible yet resilient material e.g. a Kevlar or glass
fibre material. The hinge 116 also includes a support material extending along
the hinge adjacent the hinge line. The flexible hinge line material 120 forms the
hinge line 121 whilst the support material 130 runs along the longitudinal extent of
the hinge and closely adjacent the hinge line 121. In a preferred embodiment, the
support material 130 is or includes a glass fibre material or polymeric material. In
the embodiment shown in Figures 9 to 11, the flexible sheet or web is integrated
or embedded with the support material 130.
[0083]      Sub-figures 1OA to 1OC shows detail of the central (keel line) hinge
when the collapsible boat is in an erected configuration and the support material
 130 is therefore flexed.
[0084]      Referring to sub-figure 10A, the support material when flexed (130b)
forms a generally flat formation at the end of the bow, spanning between the pair
of bottom panels 112,114. In this configuration, the support material 130 is under
traction. This is an area of the hinge 116 that is under high tension stress relative
to other areas of the hinge and so a flat configuration is ideal for structural
purposes. Significant departure from the flat configuration at this region of the
hinge 116 could create a sharp fold line and potentially damage the web or sheet
of the hinge line material 120.

                                            15
[0085]      It is therefore desirable for the support material 130 to form a
substantially flat configuration at any region of the hinge 116 where there is
traction when the panels 112,114 are in the erected configuration. In the
embodiment shown in Figures 9 to 11, this will generally be adjacent beginning
and end of curved portions of the boat hull 110. Referring to sub-figure 10A, the
position of support material 130 in a substantially un-flexed position is depicted
with dotted lines and referenced as 130a.
[0086]      Sub-figure 10B shows detail of the central hinge adjacent the bow area
of the hull. The support material 130b when flexed, as a result of the panels 112,
 114 being moved to the erected configuration, forms a ridge 122 projecting away
from an interior of the boat hull. That is, the hinge is generally 'V' shaped,
providing an ideal shape to cut into and deflect water before the boat commences
planing, or to minimise resistance to movement of the boat when the boat
encounters waves. The angle of the 'V' can vary along the length of the hull. The
'V' shape is formed by application of compression to the support material as the
panels 112,114 are moved into the erected hull formation. The dotted lines in
Sub-figure 10B represent the support material 130a when in a substantially un
flexed state.
[0087]      At and towards the stern of the boat, as shown in Sub-figure 10C, the
support material 130 forms a ridge 140 when flexed, projecting into the interior of
the boat hull i.e. the hinge is generally 'W' shaped in cross section. This adds
strength in relation to carrying weight in the boat and reduces stress and external
(water side) exposure on the flexible hinge material compared with a flat hinge.
Each of the bottom panels has bevelled edges and the flexible sheet or web
material forms the hinge line therebetween. The resultant external channel 46
formed by the exterior 'valley' of the ridge along the portion of the keel hinge
towards the stern helps stability of the boat at speed.
[0088]      In each variation of geometry or configuration of the hinge 116 along
the hull, the stress as applied to the flexible hinge line material 120 when the

                                             16
panels 112,114 are arranged in the erected configuration is advantageously
minimised.
[0089]        Preferably the hinge 116 is bonded to the respective panels 112,114.
For example, by fibreglass bonding to composite panels. Alternatively, the
support material 130 can support the flexible hinge material 120 and the support
material 30 is bonded to the panel(s), such as by a marine grade adhesive.
[0090]      It is desirable that the support material 130 is bonded to the respective
panels 112,114 such that it is arranged at an angle of between 100 and 450 when
the panels 112,114 are in the collapsed or folded configuration. This
arrangement facilitates flexion along the line of the keel hinge whereby the angle
of the support material 130 relative to the panels 112,114 flexes and adopts
configurations as described above as the panels 112,114 are moved into the
erected configuration.
[0091]      Whilst the hinge is flexible, it also has rigidity which assists in creating
a smooth transition between change of geometry of the hinge 116 along the
length of the hull. That is, there is a smooth transition from the 'W' or inverted 'V'
shape at the stern, to the 'V' shape at the bow and the substantially flat geometry
towards the end of the bow.
[0092]      The flexing of the hinge 116 as the panels 112,114 are moved to the
erected configuration therefore advantageously and usefully creates a
configuration or geometry that contributes to the functional configuration of the
hull 110.

                                            17
CLAIMS:
 1.     A collapsible boat hull including: a pair of bottom panels connected by a
first continuous hinge along an inner edge of each said bottom panel, the first
continuous hinge being flexible facilitating the pair of bottom panels to be moved
between a collapsed configuration and an erected configuration of the hull and
wherein the first continuous hinge facilitates curving of at least a portion of the
bottom panels when the bottom panels are in the erected configuration.
2.      A hull according to claim 1, the first continuous hinge incorporated in a keel
line hinge arrangement at the bottom of the boat.
3.      A hull according to claim 1, including a second continuous hinge along a
respective outer edge of each said bottom panel; and a pair of side panels, each
said side panel connected to an adjacent said bottom panel along a respective
said second continuous hinge, each said second continuous hinge being flexible
and facilitating curving of at least a portion of the side panels with the bottom
panels when the hull is in the erected configuration.
4.      A hull according to claim 3, the second continuous hinges forming
respective chine hinges at the transition between the side panels and respective
bottom panel(s).
5.      A hull according to claim 3, the first and/or second continuous hinges
having resilient flexibility along respective longitudinal and transverse planes
thereof, thereby facilitating the bottom and side panels to be moved between a
folded configuration and an erected configuration.
6.      A hull according to any one of claims 1 to 5, the first or second continuous
hinges or both first and second continuous hinges including a flexible sheet or

                                           18
web forming a hinge line between adjacent connected bottom panels or bottom
and side panels.
7.      A hull according to claim 6, the sheet or web is or includes a polyester
material or fabric, or a fibre matrix material such as Kevlar or glass fibre or a
flexible solid sheet or woven material.
8.       A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, the first and/or
second continuous hinges including a support material extending along the
respective hinge adjacent the hinge line.
9.      A hull according to claim 8, wherein the support material further extends
over the hinge line externally and/or internally with respect to the hull.
 10.    A hull according to claim 8 or 9, the support material including or being a
glass fibre or polymeric material.
 11.    A hull according to claim 8, 9 or 10, the support material forming a
structural join between the flexible hinge material and the respective said panel
 12.    A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, the first hinge
between the adjacent bottom panels forming an internal ridge along the interior of
the bottom of the hull when the boat hull is erected.
 13.    A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, the first and/or second
hinges including one or more strengtheners running along the respective hinge.
 14.    A hull according to claim 13, wherein each hinge includes a said
strengthener either side of the respective hinge line.

                                            19
15.     A hull according to claim 13 or 14, the respective strengthener in the form
of or including or has applied thereto at least one rib running along the respective
continuous hinge.
16.     A hull according to claim 15, the at least one rib provided along the hinge
on the interior side of the hull, or along the hinge on the exterior of the hull, or
both on the interior and exterior of the hull.
17.     A hull according to claim 15 or 16, the at least one rib including a rod or
other elongate member.
18.     A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each
said continuous hinge includes a sheet or web formed of a semi-rigid resilient or
elastic material having capacity to flex along the length of the hull's keel.
19.     A hull according to claim any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
and/or second continuous hinge(s) includes a respective external ridge along a
portion of the exterior of the bottom of the hull when the boat hull is erected.
20.     A hull according to claim 19 wherein the or each continuous hinge includes
the respective external ridge along the portion of the exterior of the boat adjacent
a bow of the boat.
21.     A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each
continuous hinge includes a substantially flat portion along a portion of the
exterior of the bottom of the hull when the boat hull is erected.
22.     A hull according to claim 21 wherein the or each continuous hinge provides
a substantially flat portion along a portion of the exterior of the bottom of the hull
adjacent an end of the bow.

                                          20
23.    A hull according to any one of the preceding claims wherein flexing of the
or each continuous hinge as the bottom and side panels are moved to the erected
configuration creates a configuration or geometry that contributes to functional
configuration of the hull.
24.    A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein geometry or
configuration of the or each continuous hinge minimises stress applied to at least
a portion of the continuous hinges when the bottom and side panels are in the
erected configuration.
25.    A hull according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one
of the said panels of the hull includes or is formed of a honeycomb core of
material coated or impregnated with a polymer.
26.    A hull according to claim 25, wherein the honeycomb core is a PVC or
polypropylene material.
27.    A hull according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the polymer coating or
impregnation material includes epoxy or polyester.
28.    A hull according to claim 7, wherein the sheet or web is or includes a
coating or impregnation of a flexible protective material.
29.    A flexible hinge for a collapsible boat hull having at least two panels to be
hinged by the flexible hinge for erecting and collapsing the boat hull, the flexible
hinge including a flexible material forming a hinge line along the flexible hinge,
and support material either side of the hinge line, the support material providing
structural support.
30.    A flexible hinge according to claim 29, including flexible protective material
extending over or through the flexible material of the hinge line.
31.    A flexible hinge according to claim 29 or 30, including at least one
strengthener orientated extending along a length of the flexible hinge.

                                           21
32.    A flexible hinge according to claim 31, including at least one said
strengtheners positioned adjacent the hinge line.
33.    A flexible hinge according to any one of claims 29 to 32, including fibres
integral to the hinge orientated in a direction along the hinge.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/5

