   1002177835
                                             ABSTRACT
                   Connector inserts and receptacles that provide signal paths having desired
   impedance characteristics. One example may provide a connector system having a connector
   insert and a connector receptacle. Contacts in the connector insert may form signal paths with
 5 corresponding contacts in the connector receptacle. Additional traces in the connector insert and
   receptacle may be part of these signal paths. The signal paths may have a target or a desired
   impedance along their lengths such that the power paths electrically appear as transmission lines.
   Constraints on physical dimensions of the connector insert and connector receptacle contacts
   may result in variations in impedance along the signal paths. Accordingly, embodiments of the
10 present disclosure may provide structures to reduce these variations, to compensate for these
   variations, or a combination thereof.

   1002177835
                   CONNECTOR SYSTEM IMPEDANCE MATCHING
                                        RELATED APPLICATION
   [0001]     Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2015/029994 (published as
   WO 2015/172084), filed on 8 May 2015.
 5                                            BACKGROUND
   [0002]     The amount of data transferred between electronic devices has grown tremendously the
   last several years. Large amounts of audio, streaming video, text, and other types of information
   content are now regularly transferred among desktop and portable computers, media devices,
   handheld media devices, displays, storage devices, and other types of electronic devices.
10 [0003]     Data may be conveyed over cables that may include wire conductors, fiber optic cables,
   or some combination of these or other conductors. Cable assemblies may include a connector
   insert at each end of a cable, though other cable assemblies may be connected or tethered to an
   electronic device in a dedicated manner. The connector inserts may be inserted into receptacles
   in the communicating electronic devices to form pathways for data and power.
15 [0004]     These connector inserts may include contacts or pins that form signal paths with
   contacts or pins in the corresponding connector receptacles. It may be desirable that these signal
   paths have a matched impedance over their lengths in order to increase the data rate that the
   signal path can support. That is, it may be desirable that these signal paths appear as
   transmission lines having a specific impedance. These transmission lines may convey signals
20 that are substantially free of reflections, rise and fall time distortions, and other artifacts that may
   slow data transfers. Such transmission lines may be capable of handling higher data
   transmission rates than a signal path that does not have a matched impedance. This may be
   particularly important for large data transfers.
   [0005]     New generations of electronic devices are consistently becoming thinner and smaller.
25 This reduction in device thickness has led to connector systems having a reduced height. This
   results in individual connector system components becoming thinner as well. Unfortunately, as
   these components become thinner, it may become harder to maintain the desired impedance
   along these signal paths.
   [0006]     Thus, what is needed are connector inserts and receptacles that provide signal paths
30 having desired impedance characteristics.
                                                        1

   1002177835
   [0005A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
   that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this
   prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant, and/or combined
   with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
 5
                                                 SUMMARY
   [0005B] According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided an electronic device
   comprising: a first circuit for receiving a first plurality of signals via a first plurality of contacts
   of a universal serial bus type-C connector; and a second circuit for receiving a second plurality of
10 signals via the first plurality of contacts of the universal serial bus type-C connector, wherein the
   first plurality of contacts consists of N contacts and the first plurality of signals and the second
   plurality of signals are received via the same N contacts of the universal serial bus type-C
   connector, where N is greater than two, wherein the first plurality of signals comprises two or
   more signals selected from two low-speed data signals, a connection detect signal, and a power
15 supply, wherein the second plurality of signals comprises N-I pseudo differential signals, and
   wherein the first plurality of signals and the second plurality of signals are not simultaneously
   received on the first plurality of contacts.
   [0005C] According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a connector system
   comprising: a connector receptacle comprising: a tongue having a top side, a bottom side, and a
20 leading edge facing a connector insert when the connector insert is mated with the connector
   receptacle, the tongue comprising: a first plurality of contacts on the top side; a second plurality
   of contacts on the bottom side; and a central ground plane between the top side and the bottom
   side, wherein the central ground plane extends from the leading edge of the tongue to physically
   and electrically connect to a central ground plane of a connector insert when the connector insert
25 is mated with the connector receptacle.
   [0005D] According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a connector system
   comprising: a connector receptacle comprising a tongue, the tongue having a central ground
   plane terminating in a front edge, the tongue further including a plurality of contacts; and a
   connector insert having a center portion, the center portion having a central ground plane
30 terminating in a front edge of the tongue such that when the connector receptacle and connector
   insert are mated, the front edge of the tongue and the front edge of the center portion face each
                                                       2

   1002177835
   other and are separated by a gap, wherein the front edge of tongue and the front edge of the
   center portion are plated with a high-permeability material.
   [0005E] According to a forth aspect of the invention there is provided a connector system
   comprising: a connector receptacle comprising a tongue, the tongue having a central ground
 5 plane terminating in a front edge, the tongue further including a plurality of contacts; a connector
   insert having a center portion, the center portion having a central ground plane terminating in a
   front edge such that when the connector receptacle and connector insert are mated, the front edge
   of the tongue and the front edge of the center portion face each other and are separated by a gap;
   and a plurality of protrusions extending from the front edge of one of the connector receptacle
10 tongue or connector insert center portion to contact the front edge of the other of the connector
   receptacle tongue or connector insert center portion when the connector receptacle and connector
   insert are mated.
   [0005F] According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided an electronic device
   comprising: a universal serial bus type-C connector comprising a first plurality of contacts and a
15 second plurality of contacts, each of the first plurality of contacts and each of the second
   plurality of contacts having a first area, the first plurality of contacts and the second plurality of
   contacts each having a first layer comprising a first material and a second layer comprising a
   second material, the second layer over the first layer, wherein the second layer is present in the
   first area of each of the first plurality of contacts and the second layer is absent from the first area
20 of each of the second plurality of contacts, wherein the first material has a high permeability, a
   low impedance at low frequencies, and a high impedance at high frequencies, and
   wherein the second material has a low permeability, a low impedance at low frequencies, and a
   low impedance at high frequencies, wherein the permeability of the first material is higher than
   the permeability of the second material.
25 [0007]     Embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connector inserts and receptacles
   that provide signal paths having desired impedance characteristics. An illustrative embodiment
   of the present disclosure may provide a connector system having a connector insert and a
   connector receptacle. Contacts in the connector insert may form electrical paths with
   corresponding contacts in the connector receptacle. These electrical paths may be used as signal
30 paths, power paths, or other types of electrical paths, but may be referred to here as signal paths
   for simplicity. Additional traces in the connector insert and receptacle may be part of these
   signal and power paths.
                                                        3

   1002177835
   [0008]     The signal paths may have a target or desired impedance along their lengths such that
   the signal paths electrically appear as transmission lines. Constraints on physical dimensions of
   the connector insert and connector receptacle contacts may result in variations in impedance
   along the signal paths. Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure may provide
 5 structures to reduce these variations in impedance. Other embodiments of the present disclosure
   may provide structures to compensate for these variations, or structures may be provided to
   reduce and compensate for these variations in impedance. It should be noted that the impedances
   described here are impedances at a frequency, for example, the signal frequency or a frequency
   component of signals conveyed by these signal paths.
10 [0009]     In one illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure, a connector insert may include
   spring finger contacts. These contacts may engage corresponding surface contacts on a
   connector receptacle tongue when the connector insert is inserted into the connector receptacle.
   Traces in or on the tongue may be used to route signals to and from the connector receptacle
   contacts. Signal paths in this connector system may include the spring finger contacts in the
15 connector insert and the contacts and traces in and on the tongue of the connector receptacle.
   [0010]     These signal path impedances may have various errors or fluctuations along their
   lengths. For example, a contact in the connector insert may be located above or below a ground
   plane, where the ground plane is located along a center line of the connector insert. The contact
   may have a capacitance to the ground plane, where the capacitance increases with the proximity
20 of the contact to the ground plane. Since impedance is inversely proportional to the square root
   of the capacitance, when the contact is closer to the ground plane, the impedance may decrease.
   Keeping the spacing between the contact and ground plane relatively constant may allow the
   impedance to be well controlled along the contact's length, but there may be a discontinuity
   where the insert contacts extend beyond the ground plane and housing. The nearest ground or
25 fixed potential may be further away at this point, leading to an increase in impedance in the
   signal path at that point. Conversely, the size of receptacle contacts needed to provide a wiping
   function and to reliable engage the insert contacts may lead to an increase in capacitance and a
   resulting decrease in impedance at that point. Also, excess portions of the connector insert and
   receptacle contacts may create stubs, which may act as capacitors, thereby further reducing the
30 impedance at the connector receptacle contact.
   [0011]     These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may reduce or at least partially
   compensate for these and other impedance errors. In one example, the ground plane in the
                                                     4

   1002177835
   connector insert may extend such that it engages or contacts a corresponding ground plane in a
   connector receptacle. The continuous ground plane may help the common mode impedance.
   [0012]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the decrease in impedance
   near the connector receptacle surface contacts may be reduced. For example, signal contacts
 5 having a reduced depth may be provided. These reduced depth contacts may have an increased
   distance to a center ground plane in the tongue. The increased distance may reduce coupling
   capacitance, thereby increasing local impedance. In this and other embodiments, power contacts
   may be deeper or thicker to provide an increase in current handling capability.
   [0013]     In other illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure, the ground plane may be
10 thinned below the signal contacts to further increase a distance between a signal contact and the
   ground plane. In still other illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure, the ground plane
   may have openings below the signal contacts. While this may allow cross-talk between signal
   contacts on a top and bottom of the connector receptacle tongue, the impedance error may be
   reduced enough to provide an overall improvement in performance. In these and other
15 embodiments, the traces may be offset from each other to reduce this crosstalk.
   [0014]     In this and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a ground plane may reside near
   a center of the tongue. In other embodiments of the present disclosure, the central plane may be
   a power plane. Other planes may be located above or below these central planes. Again, these
   may be power or ground planes. For example, a power plane may be centrally located and
20 ground planes may be positioned above and below the central plane. A high capacitance
   dielectric may be placed between the power and ground planes in order to form bypass
   capacitors between power and ground. This capacitance may help to reduce the return path
   impedance and may help to reduce power supply noise. For example, a dielectric having a
   dielectric constant or relative permittivity on the order of 100 to 1,000 or higher may be used. In
25 these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a discrete capacitor may be used. This
   discrete capacitor may include multiple alternating power and ground terminals and may be
   located between these power and ground planes. In these and other embodiments of the present
   disclosure, these capacitors may be in a tongue of a connector receptacle, or elsewhere in a
   connector receptacle or connector insert.
30 [0015]     In the above embodiments of the present disclosure, impedance errors may be reduced.
   In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the above impedance errors may be
   compensated for. For example, traces connected to contacts on the connector receptacle tongue
                                                      5

   1002177835
   may be arranged to provide higher or lower impedances than the desired impedance of the signal
   paths in order to compensate for the above, and other, impedance errors. In an illustrative
   embodiment of the present disclosure, a distance between these traces and a ground plane may be
   varied, for example from tens of microns to hundreds of microns, in order to adjust the
 5 impedance of a portion of a trace in a tongue. This impedance may be set such that the average
   or effective impedance for the overall signal trace meets a desired specification or target. This
   averaging effect may be effective when the delay through these traces is short compared to a rise
   and fall time of the signals propagating through the traces.
   [0016]     In still other embodiments of the present disclosure, the arrangement of these traces
10 may be varied to construct a distributed element filter. For example, the width of traces in a
   signal pair, a distance or spacing between traces in a signal pair, as well as distances between
   these traces and a ground plane may be varied in a receptacle tongue. Also, a material that the
   tongue or other connector portions are made of may be varied or removed in order to change a
   dielectric constant or permittivity between or among traces, contacts, ground planes, and other
15 structures. These variations may result in different common-mode impedances for the signal
   path pair along various sections of the traces. In various embodiments of the present disclosure,
   differential-mode impedances may remain at least approximately constant among multiple of
   these sections. These sections having different common-mode impedances may be arranged to
   form a common-mode filter to filter or reduce common-mode energy in signals conveyed along
20 the signal path. That is, the signal path pair may be used to convey a differential signal, and the
   variance of the common-mode impedance may be used to form an in-line filter to remove
   common-mode energy from the differential signal pair. For example, a choke, notch, low-pass,
   high-pass, band-pass, or other type filter may be formed. These and similar techniques may be
   used to filter power supplies as well, for example by forming a common-mode low-pass or choke
25 filter.
   [0017]     Again, in illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure, parameters and
   dimensions of traces and other structures on a tongue may be varied to change impedances.
   These impedances may include a single-ended impedance, which may be the impedance of a
   contact or trace to ground. These impedances may also include a common-mode impedance,
30 which may be the impedance between a pair of contacts and traces to ground, and a differential
   mode impedance, which may be the impedance between a pair of contacts or traces to each other.
                                                     6

   1002177835
   [0018]     These impedances may be varied in several ways in embodiments of the present
   disclosure. For example, traces may be made wider, narrower, thicker, thinner, closer to each
   other, and farther apart. They may be thinned or thickened. The dielectric between them may be
   varied. Holes may be formed in the dielectric or conductive material and structures.
 5 [0019]     These different techniques may be employed by various embodiments of the present
   disclosure to accomplish various goals. For example, in small connectors, the small geometries
   may result in large capacitances between a signal trace or contact and ground. This may result in
   a low impedance to ground at the signal frequencies. These various techniques may be used by
   embodiments of the present disclosure to increase signal path impedance to ground. Also,
10 common-mode and differential-mode impedances may be varied among different sections of
   traces or interconnect in a connector. These impedances may be arranged to form distributed
   element filters along these traces.
   [0020]     These different techniques may be used to increase or otherwise adjust an impedance of
   a signal path. In an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure, a pair of traces may be
15 formed on a plastic tongue. Material may be removed from sections of the area between the
   traces on the tongue. This may act to decrease the dielectric constant or permittivity between the
   traces in these sections, thereby increasing the impedance. In another illustrative embodiment of
   the present disclosure, this material may be removed from an area between contacts or traces and
   a center ground plate of the connector. Again, this may act to decrease the dielectric constant or
20 permittivity between the traces in these sections, thereby increasing the impedance. This
   material may be removed in relatively large sections. In other embodiments of the present
   disclosure, micro-perforations or other sized perforations, in either or both the material between
   the traces and a ground plane or in the ground plane itself, may be used to increase impedance.
   In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these perforations may be formed on
25 the contacts themselves. These perforations may form a photonic bandgap, which may also be
   used as a filter element. In other embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more sections of
   a center ground plane may have a raised or lowered section below one or more contacts to lower
   or raise an impedance at the contact.
   [0021]     Common-mode and differential-mode impedances may be varied among different
30 sections of traces or interconnect in a connector. These impedances may be arranged to form
   distributed element filters along these traces. Other structures, such as open ended or shorted
   stubs may be included in these filters. In an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure,
                                                     7

   1002177835
   traces may be arranged such that a common-mode impedance may be varied among different
   sections of a pair of the traces. This may be used to form a common-mode filter that may block
   common-mode currents and reduce electro-magnetic interference. The traces may also be
   arranged such that a differential-mode impedance may be held relatively constant among the
 5 sections. Accordingly, this filter may provide limited differential filtering and may have only a
   limited effect on a differential signal conveyed on the traces. In this way, common-mode
   impedances may be varied along a trace, while a differential-mode impedance may remain
   relatively constant along the trace. These sections may be arranged using distributed element
   filter and transmission filter techniques to form filters to block common-mode signals while
10 allowing differential-mode signals pass.
   [0022]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, ground and power supply
   connections between a connector insert and a connector receptacle may form loops that traverse
   the interface between the connector insert and the connector receptacle. These loops may
   include contacts and traces in the connector insert and the connector receptacle. These loops
15 may form stray or parasitic inductances and capacitances. These inductors and capacitors may
   include tank circuits that may oscillate during device operation. Such oscillations may occur at
   very high frequencies and may cause cross-talk and electromagnetic interference.
   [0023]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these oscillations may be
   reduced or otherwise mitigated by inserting series resistances in the loops. These series
20 resistance may be resistances of ground, power, or other contacts in either or both the connector
   insert or connector receptacle. The resistance of these contacts may be increased in various ways
   in various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example, plating layers, such as a gold or
   other low-resistance layers may be omitted from all or a portion of a contact. In these and other
   embodiments of the present disclosure, a contacting surface of a contact may be plated with a
25 high permeability material, such as nickel, with a gold plated overlay to reduce impedance. A
   remainder of the contact might not be gold plated, thereby exposing the nickel plating on those
   portions. This absence of gold plating may increase the resistance of a parasitic tank circuit due
   to the high permeability of nickel. More specifically, since the skin depth is very shallow for
   high frequency signals (for example, 0.05 microns at 10 GHz), then this shallow skin depth may
30 increase the impedance at frequency (for example, 15 ohms series resistance.) This may reduce
   the quality factor (or Q), which may reduce the peak energy in in any resonance, thereby
   reducing cross-talk and electromagnetic interference. In these and other embodiments of the
                                                      8

   1002177835
   present disclosure, one or more higher-resistance layers may be plated over all or a portion of a
   contact. This higher-resistance layer may similarly help to reduce cross-talk and electromagnetic
   interference. While nickel and gold are shown here in this example, in these and other
   embodiments of the present disclosure, other platings with a high permeability that provide the
 5 desired series impedance may be used. That is, various materials with a high permeability
   (ability to conduct magnetic fields), such as nickel, iron, or other material may be used. This
   material may also have a low resistance or impedance at low frequencies (ability to conduct
   electricity.) However, due to their high permeability, these materials may have a shallow skin
   depth, thereby increasing their impedance at frequency. In these and other embodiments of the
10 present disclosure, a high permeability material may be overlaid or plated with a low impedance
   material. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, gold may be absent or
   omitted from an area of a signal pin to increase the series impedance, while gold may be present
   in the same area in power and ground contacts.
   [0024]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a signal strength in a signal
15 path may be modified to improve signal-to-noise ratios in one or more nearby or adjacent signal
   paths. For example, a first signal path may provide signals having a large amplitude while a
   second signal path may provide signals having a smaller amplitude. These signal paths may
   couple to each other. The first signal path may have a good signal-to-noise ratio due to its high
   signal strength and the limited noise contribution coupled from the second signal path, while the
20 second signal path may have a poorer signal-to-noise ratio due to its low signal strength and the
   larger noise contribution coupled from the first signal path. The signal strength of the first signal
   path may be reduced in response to this imbalance. This may reduce the signal-to-noise ratio in
   the first path due to the diminished signal amplitude. This may be justified by the improved
   signal-to-noise ratio in the second signal path due to the decreased noise contribution coupled
25 from the first signal path. For example, a dual simplex link may use a connector to couple
   signals traveling in both directions across the link. This connector may be a principle source of
   coupling between signals. These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may modify
   one or more signal strengths such that the signals have similar amplitudes at points of highest
   coupling in the connector. This may help to preclude a strong signal from coupling onto a weak
30 signal and thereby lowering the weak signals bit-error rate (BER). In these and other
   embodiments of the present disclosure, either the loss on each transmitter from the transmitter to
   the connector coupling point may be balanced, or the transmitted strength of the stronger signal
                                                      9

   1002177835
   at the connector coupling point may be reduced so that signal strength at the point of coupling is
   equalized for each signal. This may result in a balanced signal-to-noise ratio for each signal, and
   may optimizes the lowest signal-to-noise ratio. This may improve the signal-to-noise ratio for
   the weaker signal, which may otherwise limit overall link performance.
 5 [0025]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the signal strength may be
   determined using amplitude or eye height, eye width, eye opening, or other signal characteristic.
   In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a first electronic device receiving a
   signal may provide amplitude information about the received signal to a second electronic
   device, where the second electronic device may adjust a signal amplitude in one or more
10 channels.
   [0026]     Again, in these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a ground plane in the
   connector insert may extend or otherwise be located such that it engages or contacts a
   corresponding ground plane in a connector receptacle. These ground planes may be formed of
   various materials. For example, they may be made of ferritic material or material with high
15 permeability, or they may include, nickel or other material that is at least fairly resistive at high
   frequency due to skin depth effect in order to reduce coupling currents in the ground plane. They
   may also be formed of ferrite or other material that is both highly resistive (at least at high
   frequencies), due to skin depth at high frequency, and magnetically conductive. The ground
   planes may include protrusions or other contacting surfaces or other contacting surfaces or
20 structures to mate the two ground planes.
   [0027]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, instead of (or in conjunction
   with) forming a connection between ground planes in the connector receptacle tongue and a
   ground plane in a connector insert portion, a front edge of connector insert portion and a front
   edge of a connector receptacle tongue may be plated with a high permeability material. This
25 material may be plated with a high permeability material having a low skin depth to provide a
   high impedance at high frequencies. Again, these edges may be connected to ground planes in a
   connector insert portion and to a ground plane in a connector receptacle tongue. This plating
   may lower the quality or   Q of a slot- transmission line that may be formed when the connector
   receptacle and connector insert are mated. That is, when the connectors are mated, a gap
30 between front edges of a connector receptacle tongue and a connector insert portion may form a
   slot-transmission line. This gap may be open on each end and thus may resonate at frequency
   that is half a wavelength of the slot length. The low skin depth of the front edge plating may
                                                     10

   1002177835
   make the gap resistive at high frequency. This may lower the     Q, which may lessen the coupling
   energy crossing slot-transmission line on the signal pins, which may reduce coupling among the
   signal pins. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the high permeability
   material may be nickel, iron, or other material.
 5 [0028]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, an impedance between
   ground and one or more power supplies, bias voltages, or other voltages may be reduced in order
   to make the power and ground conductors effective return paths for radio frequency signals. . In
   various embodiments of the present disclosure this may be done by forming ground and power
   planes in parallel in connectors, for example in a tongue of a connector receptacle. Capacitors
10 may be placed between these planes, between a contact and a plane, or elsewhere in a connector
   or connector tongue. For example, one or more capacitors may be physically located between a
   power supply contact and a ground plane. Trace length between the ground and power supply
   contacts and the planes may be reduced to further decrease loop energy.
   [0029]     These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may provide high-speed
15 transmitters and receivers capable of maintaining high data rates. These high-speed transmitters
   and receivers may be used to convey lower-speed signals in an efficient manner. Specifically,
   parallel lower-speed data signals may be interleaved or multiplexed and then transmitted using
   the high-speed transmitters and receivers. This may allow the same data to be conveyed using
   fewer transmitters, receivers, conductors, and other components. In one example, DisplayPort
20 data may be received at a first connector insert, where the first connector insert is inserted into a
   first electronic device (a source.) The DisplayPort data may include four lower-speed,
   differential data signals. These four signals may be received by circuitry in the connector insert,
   and pairs of data signals may be serialized by a parallel-to-series converter. The two resulting
   two serialized data signals may be transmitted through a cable to a second connector insert,
25 where the second connector insert is inserted into a second electronic device (a sink.) The
   serialized data may be converted back to parallel data. The four resulting parallel signals may
   then be provided to the second electronic device.
   [0030]     These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may use pins with low
   frequency content (for example, low frequency signal, power, or ground) to couple high
30 frequency signals (for example, using a di-plexer) to one or more pins of a data interface to
   provide additional paths for data signals. For example, in the USB type-C interface, there are
   pins for providing power to connector inserts (SBU1 and SBU2), connection detection pins (CCl
                                                     11

   1002177835
   and CC2), as well as two pairs of USB pins (D+ and D-). Some or all of these pins may be used
   to provide high-speed data. For example, four adjacent pins along a top or bottom of a USB
   type-C connector may be used to convey high-speed signals. In these and other embodiments of
   the present disclosure, different numbers of these pins may be repurposed to convey data.
 5 [0031]     These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may provide this repurposing
   by providing alternative modes of operation for these pins. In one example, USB data pins may
   be repurposed by connecting a high-speed data path to the USB data pins. The high-speed data
   path may include pin diodes that may disconnect the high-speed data path when the USB pins are
   not being repurposed. When conventional USB signals are received, a switch may close and
10 USB data may pass through an isolation component to a USB receiver. When the USB pins are
   repurposed, the pin diodes may be biased to conduct the higher-speed signals. The switches may
   open, disconnecting the USB path. The isolation components may prevent stubs from forming in
   the high-speed data path, allowing for a higher-speed operation. Alternatively, a multiplexer that
   may support the data rates and the required voltage swings may be employed to alternate
15 between USB2 modes and these higher speed modes.
   [0032]     While embodiments of the present disclosure may be used with connector systems
   having spring finger contacts in the insert and surface contacts on a tongue in the receptacle,
   other embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connector systems where the
   receptacle includes spring finger contacts and the insert includes a tongue supporting a number
20 of contacts. In still other embodiments, a tongue may be in either, both, or neither the insert and
   receptacle, and various types of contacts may be employed in the insert and receptacle.
   [0033]     The connector receptacle tongues employed by embodiments of the present disclosure
   may be formed in various ways of various materials. For example, the tongue may be formed
   using a printed circuit board. The printed circuit board may include various layers having traces
25 or planes on them, where the various traces and planes are connected using vias between layers.
   The printed circuit board may be formed as part of a larger printed circuit board that may form a
   logic or motherboard in an electronic device. In other embodiments of the present disclosure,
   these tongues may be formed of conductive or metallic traces and planes in or on a
   nonconductive body. The nonconductive body may be formed of plastic or other materials.
30 [0034]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, contacts, ground planes, traces, and
   other conductive portions of connector inserts and receptacles may be formed by stamping,
   metal-injection molding, machining, micro-machining, 3-D printing, or other manufacturing
                                                    12

   1002177835
   process. The conductive portions may be formed of stainless steel, steel, copper, copper
   titanium, phosphor bronze, or other material or combination of materials. They may be plated or
   coated with nickel, gold, or layered material of each type or other material. The nonconductive
   portions may be formed using injection or other molding, 3-D printing, machining, or other
 5 manufacturing process. The nonconductive portions may be formed of rubber, hard rubber,
   plastic, nylon, liquid-crystal polymers (LCPs), or other nonconductive material or combination
   of materials. The printed circuit boards used may be formed of FR-4, BT or more generally fiber
   glass materials or fiber free printed circuit board material or other material such as plastic or
   hybrid structures. Printed circuit boards may be replaced by other substrates, such as flexible
10 circuit boards, in many embodiments of the present disclosure.
   [0035]     Embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connectors that may be located in,
   and may connect to, various types of devices, such as portable computing devices, tablet
   computers, desktop computers, laptops, all-in-one computers, wearable computing devices, cell
   phones, smart phones, media phones, storage devices, portable media players, navigation
15 systems, monitors, power supplies, adapters, remote control devices, chargers, and other devices.
   These connectors may provide pathways for signals that are compliant with various standards
   such as Universal Serial Bus (USB) including USB-C, High-Definition Multimedia Interface®
   (HDMI), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), Ethernet, DisplayPort, Thunderbolt      TM, Lightning TM,
   Joint Test Action Group (JTAG), test-access-port (TAP), Directed Automated Random Testing
20 (DART), universal asynchronous receiver/transmitters (UARTs), clock signals, power signals,
   and other types of standard, non-standard, and proprietary interfaces and combinations thereof
   that have been developed, are being developed, or will be developed in the future. Other
   embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connectors that may be used to provide a
   reduced set of functions for one or more of these standards. In various embodiments of the
25 present disclosure, these interconnect paths provided by these connectors may be used to convey
   power, ground, signals, test points, and other voltage, current, data, or other information.
   [0036]     Various embodiments of the present disclosure may incorporate one or more of these
   and the other features described herein. A better understanding of the nature and advantages of
   the present disclosure may be gained by reference to the following detailed description and the
30 accompanying drawings.
                                                      13

   1002177835
   [0035A]     As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and
   variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to
   exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
 5                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0037]     Figure 1 illustrates a connector system according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [0038]     Figure 2 illustrates a transmission line model for a signal path in the connector system
   of Figure 1;
10 [0039]     Figure 3 illustrates an example of the variation in impedance along a signal path for the
   connector system of Figure 1;
   [0040]     Figure 4 illustrates a front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0041]     Figure 5 illustrates another front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
15 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0042]     Figure 6 illustrates another front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0043]     Figure 7 illustrates another front cross-section view of a computer receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
20 [0044]     Figure 8 illustrates another front view cross-section of a computer receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0045]     Figure 9 illustrates another front view cross-section of a computer receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0046]     Figure 10 illustrates another connector system according to an embodiment of the
25 present disclosure;
   [0047]     Figure 11 illustrates another connector system according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [0048]     Figure 12A illustrates a spectrum of a signal passing through signal path according to
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
30 [0049]     Figure 12B illustrates a differential signal path having a high common-mode impedance
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                       14

   1002177835
   [0050]     Figure 12C illustrates a differential signal path having a low common-mode impedance
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0051]     Figure 13 illustrates a portion of a top surface of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 [0052]     Figure 14 illustrates a cutaway view of the tongue section of Figure 13;
   [0053]     Figure 15 illustrates a top of a connector tongue according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [0054]     Figure 16 illustrates a cross section of a connector tongue according to an embodiment
   of the present disclosure;
10 [0055]     Figure 17 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0056]     Figure 18 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0057]     Figure 19 illustrates a top view of a portion of a tongue according to an embodiment of
15 the present disclosure;
   [0058]     Figure 20 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0059]     Figure 21 illustrates another top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
20 [0060]     Figure 22 illustrates a portion of a cable according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [0061]     Figure 23 is a method of operation for the circuitry of Figure 22;
   [0062]     Figure 24 illustrates a connector system according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
25 [0063]     Figure 25 illustrates a cutaway front view of a portion of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [0064]     Figure 26 illustrates a cable assembly according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [0065]     Figure 27 illustrates a pinout for a USB type-C connector; and
30 [0066]     Figure 28 illustrates circuitry to allow USB data pins to be repurposed as high-speed
   data pins.
                                                       15

   1002177835
                          DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
   [0067]     Figure 1 illustrates a connector system according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. This figure, as with the other included figures, is shown for illustrative purposes and
   does not limit either the possible embodiments of the present disclosure or the claims.
 5 [0068]     In this figure, a portion of a connector insert has been inserted into a connector
   receptacle. Shown are connector insert contacts 110 supported by connector insert housing 120.
   Connector insert contacts 110 may electrically connect to conductors in a cable (not shown.) A
   central ground plane 130 may be located in connector insert housing 120 and may be connected
   to the cable as well. The connector insert may be inserted into a connector receptacle including
10 tongue 140. Tongue 140 may support a number of contacts 150. Traces 152 may electrically
   connect contacts 150 to circuitry inside a device housing tongue 140. Tongue 140 may further
   include one or more planes 160 and 170. Planes 160 and 170 may be power supply, ground, or
   other types of planes. For example, plane 170 may be a power supply plane having ground plane
   on a top and bottom side.
15 [0069]     In this example, signals may propagate along contacts 110 until they reach contact
   point 112. The signals may then propagate through contacts 150 and traces 152. Conversely,
   signals may propagate in the other direction, through traces 152 to contacts 150, through contact
   point 112 and through connector insert contact 110.
   [0070]     Again, it may be desirable that this signal path have a matched impedance along its
20 entire length. For example, it may be desirable that this signal path have a 50 ohm, 85 ohm, 110
   ohm, or other specific impedance along its entire length. Unfortunately, aspects of these paths
   may create impedance errors, variations, or fluctuations along their lengths. These errors may
   cause reflections and signal distortions that may reduce the data rates that would otherwise be
   achievable.
25 [0071]     Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure may mitigate or reduce these
   errors. In this way, signals may be distorted to a lesser degree such that sufficiently high data
   rates are still achievable. For example, impedance errors may be limited resulting in signal
   rising and falling edges that may be distorted to a limited degree such that high data rates are
   possible. These and other embodiments may compensate for, or at least somewhat cancel, these
30 errors. In this way, signals may be distorted in ways that cancel each other out such that
   significantly high data rates are still achievable. For example, signal rising and falling edges
   may be distorted in ways the cancel each other out such that high data rates remain possible.
                                                       16

   1002177835
   Some of the sources of these impedance errors, as well as both reduction and cancellation
   strategies for them are shown in the following figures.
   [0072]     Figure 2 illustrates a transmission line model for a signal path in the connector system
   of Figure 1. In this example, a length of connector insert contact 110 over central ground plane
 5 130 in the connector insert may be modeled as transmission line 210. A spacing between
   connector insert contact 110 and ground plane 130 may be sufficiently large and well-controlled
   that transmission line 210 may have a characteristic impedance very near a desired level.
   [0073]     As connector insert contact 110 extends beyond housing 120, it may reach an open area
   or spacing 180 between housing 120 and a connector receptacle tongue 140 in the connector
10 receptacle. Transmission line 220 may be used to model this length. The characteristic
   impedance of transmission line 220 may be higher than desired since ground plane 130 may be
   absent below connector insert contact 110. In this and the other examples, an impedance may be
   increased by increasing an inductance, decreasing a capacitance, or both. Similarly, an
   impedance may be decreased by decreased an inductance, increasing a capacitance, or both.
15 [0074]     At point 112, connector insert contact 110 may engage corresponding contact 150 on
   tongue 140 of the connector receptacle. The portion of the signal path may be modeled by
   transmission line 240. Extraneous edges and portions of connector insert contact 110 and
   connector receptacle contact 150 may be modeled as transmission line stub portions 230 and
   250. Specifically, portion 114 of contact 110 and portions 153 and 154 of contact 150, and
20 others, may be modeled as transmission line stub portions 230 and 250. These transmission lines
   stubs may act as capacitors to reduce the characteristic impedance along this length.
   [0075]     After reaching contact 150, signals may be routed through traces 152. Traces 152 may
   have various sections, modeled here as transmission lines 260 and 270.
   [0076]     Figure 3 illustrates an example of the variation in impedance along a signal path for the
25 connector system of Figure 1. Again, where connector insert contact 110 is above ground plane
   130 and housing 120 of the connector insert, the characteristic impedance 310 may be very near
   a desired impedance level, shown here as 85 ohms. Where ground plane 130 is absent below
   contact 110, the impedance 320 may rise, in this example to 95 ohms. Further along, stub
   portions of the contacts may reduce impedance. In this example, the resulting impedance 340
30 may be shown as 75 ohms.
   [0077]     The relative lengths and impedance of transmission lines 220 and 240 may determine
   whether the overall impedance of the signal is higher or lower than desired. In this example, the
                                                       17

   1002177835
   lengths and impedances are shown as causing the signal path impedance to be low. To
   compensate for this, the impedance 360 may be purposefully raised, for example to 95 ohms.
   Similarly, its length may be adjusted to provide a correct amount of increase in impedance. A
   remaining portion of traces 152 may be at or near the nominal impedance of 85 ohms. In this
 5 way, the total average or effective impedance of the signal path may be adjusted to the desired
   level.
   [0078]     In this example, the impedance 310 may correspond to the characteristic impedance of
   transmission line 210, impedance 320 may correspond to the characteristic impedance of
   transmission line 220, the impedance 340 may correspond to the characteristic impedance of
10 transmission line 240 and transmission line stub portions 230 and 250, the impedance 360 may
   correspond to the characteristic impedance of transmission line 260, while impedance 370 may
   correspond to characters impedance of transmission line 270 in Figure 2.
   [0079]     In this and other embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more connector insert
   contacts 110 may be ground or power contacts. Contacts 150 on tongue 140 may directly
15 connect to one of the planes 160 or 170, for example through a via or other interconnect
   structure. This direct connection may reduce the effect of transmission line components 250,
   260, and 270. This may improve the impedance of the ground or power contacts. It may also
   reduce loop currents that may otherwise cause connector suckout. The width and length of the
   via may be varied to adjust an inductance of the direct connection. This inductance may be
20 tuned to compensate for one or more of the capacitances associated with transmission lines 210,
   220, 230, 240, or other capacitance. That is, a peaking or gain provided by the inductor may be
   used to cancel or reduce a dip or attenuation caused by one or more of the capacitances
   associated with transmission lines 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 260, 270, or other capacitance.
   [0080]     Similar techniques may be used on contacts 110 that are not power or ground contacts.
25 That is, inductances, for example formed using vias, may be inserted in the signal path on tongue
   140. These inductances may be tuned to provide a peak that cancels or reduces a dip or
   attenuation caused by one or more of the capacitances associated with transmission lines 210,
   220, 230, 240, or other capacitance.
   [0081]     In one example, spacing 180 may be increased in order to make transmission line 220
30 more inductive and have a higher impedance to compensate for the capacitances caused by
   transmission line stubs 230 and 250. An increase in spacing 180 may cause an increase in
                                                    18

   1002177835
   crosstalk between contacts 110 on opposite sides of the connector insert, so there may be a limit
   on how big this spacing 180 may be made.
   [0082]     Again, embodiments of the present disclosure may reduce these various errors in order
   to limit signal distortions through these paths. These and other embodiments of the present
 5 disclosure may compensate or attempt to reduce or cancel a total error through the signal path.
   Examples of structures used to reduce impedance errors are shown in the following figures.
   [0083]     Figure 4 illustrates a front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, contacts or traces 410
   and 416 on tongue 400 may be used for power, ground, or other low impedance path. Contacts
10 or traces 412 and 414 may be used to convey signals, such as a differential signal. A depth of
   contacts or traces 412 and 414 may be reduced such that a distance 440 to ground plane 420 may
   be greater than a distance 450 below power or ground contact 410. This increase in distance may
   raise the impedance of a signal line at contacts or traces 412 and 414. In Figure 2, this may be
   used to increase a characteristic impedance of transmission line 240, while in Figure 3 this may
15 be used to raise impedance 340. Using this arrangement, these contact impedances may be
   increased, while power and ground contacts or traces 410 may retain a large cross-section to
   increase their current carrying capabilities.
   [0084]     Again, in various embodiments of the present disclosure, tongue 400 may be formed in
   various ways. For example, tongue 400 may be formed of metallic contacts, traces, and planes in
20 a plastic or other nonconductive housing. In embodiments where the tongue is a printed circuit
   board, meaningful differences in contact depths may be difficult to achieve and more reliance
   may be placed on the other reduction and compensation techniques shown below, though the
   reduction techniques shown in Figures 4-9 may be suitable for printed circuit board tongues as
   well. In the various embodiments of the present disclosure where the tongue may be formed of a
25 printed circuit board, the printed circuit board may be part of a larger logic or motherboard for an
   electronic device.
   [0085]     Figure 5 illustrates another front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, ground plane 520 may be
   notched at points 522 to further increase distance 540 relative to distance 530. As before,
30 contacts or traces 510 and 516 may be used to convey power and ground or other low impedance
   paths, while contacts or traces 512 and 514 may be used to convey signals, such as a differential
   signal.
                                                       19

   1002177835
   [0086]     Figure 6 illustrates another front cross-section view of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, holes or openings 622
   have been opened in ground plane 620. This may further increase distance 640 relative to
   distance 630, thereby further reducing impedance loss. Cross talk between signal contacts or
 5 traces 612 and 613 on opposite sides of tongue 600 may be possible with this arrangement.
   However, it may be that an improvement in impedance is enough to warrant use of openings 622
   depending on the exact embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments of the
   present disclosure, notches or openings, such as notches 522 and opening 622 may be located at
   least approximately directly below contacts or traces 612 and the ground planes 520 and 620
10 may have their full dimensions elsewhere. In other embodiments of the present disclosure,
   notches or openings such as these may be joined or continuous for nearby or adjacent contacts.
   [0087]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the crosstalk between
   contacts or traces 612 and 613 may be mitigated by moving one or more contacts or traces
   laterally such that they do not align with each other. For example, contacts or traces 632 and 633
15 may be offset from each other such that they do not align with each other through opening 644.
   [0088]     Again, other embodiments of the present disclosure may employ more than one central
   power or ground plane. The above techniques may be used in these situations as well. Examples
   are shown in the following figures.
   [0089]     Figure 7 illustrates another front cross-section view of a computer receptacle tongue
20 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, tongue 700 may include
   power plane 760 having ground planes 720 and 770 on each side. In this example, a depth of
   signal contacts or traces 712 and 714 are reduced as compared to power and ground contacts or
   traces 710 and 716 such that distance 740 is greater than distance 730.
   [0090]     Again, a high capacitance dielectric may be placed between the power plane 760 and
25 ground planes 720 and 770 in order to form bypass capacitors between power and ground. This
   capacitance may help to reduce the return path impedance and may help to reduce power supply
   noise. For example, a dielectric having a dielectric constant or relative permittivity on the order
   of 100 to 1,000 or higher may be used. For example, a high capacitance dielectric having a
   relative permittivity greater than 500 may be used.
30 [0091]     Figure 8 illustrates another front view cross-section of a computer receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, notches 822 may be
   formed to further increase distance 840.
                                                      20

   1002177835
   [0092]     Figure 9 illustrates another front view cross-section of a computer receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, openings 922 may be
   formed in ground planes 920 and 970 to further increase distance 940 as compared to distance
   930. In other embodiments of the present disclosure, power plane 960 may have an opening as
 5 well. Again, this may result in cross talk, though improvement in impedance matching may
   make it worthwhile to accept this downside.
   [0093]     The above techniques may be used to reduce impedance losses near contacts on a
   connector receptacle tongue. Again, the embodiments shown in Figures 4-9 are particularly
   well-suited for use with tongues having metallic or conductive contacts, traces, and planes that
10 are supported by tongue housings formed of plastic or other nonconductive materials, though
   they may be used with embodiments that employ tongues formed of printed circuit boards as
   well. Other embodiments of the present disclosure may help to prevent impedance gains that
   may occur at openings between a connector insert and the connector receptacle ground planes.
   These embodiments of the present disclosure may be well-suited for use with both plastic
15 tongues and tongues formed using printed circuit boards, which again may be part of a larger
   logic board, motherboard, or other board in an electronic device. An example is shown in the
   following figure.
   [0094]     Figure 10 illustrates another connector system according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. As before, connector insert contacts 1010 may engage contacts 1050 on
20 connector receptacle tongue 1040. Traces 1052 may electrically connect to contacts 1050. In
   this example, connector insert ground plane 1030 and connector tongue ground plane 1070 may
   be extended such that they meet at connection point 1080. This may prevent an increase in
   impedance in the signal path of this point. In Figure 2, this may correspond to maintaining
   reducing the impedance of transmission line 220, and in Figure 3, it may result in maintaining or
25 reducing the impedance 320.
   [0095]     Again, the above embodiments of the present disclosure may reduce impedance errors
   in a signal path in a connector system. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure,
   other impedance errors may be introduced in order to compensate for the above, and other,
   impedance errors. In this way, the average or effective impedance for a signal path may be close
30 to a desired level. An example is shown in the following figure.
   [0096]     Figure 11 illustrates another connector system according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. As before, connector insert contacts 1110 may engage contacts 1150 on
                                                      21

   1002177835
   connector receptacle tongue 1140. Traces 1152 may electrically connect to contacts 1150.
   Traces 1152 may have various sections or portions, shown here as sections 1154 and 1156. The
   height over ground plane 1170 may vary among sections. For example, section 1154 may be
   spaced from ground plane 1170 by distance 1155, while section 1156 may be spaced from
 5 ground plane 1170 by distance 1157. Since distance 1157 is shorter than distance 1155, section
   1156 may have a lower impedance than section 1154. These techniques may be well-suited for
   use in embodiments of the present disclosure that employ tongues formed of printed circuit
   boards, plastic housings, or other types of tongues.
   [0097]     This variation in impedance may be used to adjust the average or effective value of a
10 signal path to be close to a desired value. In making this adjustment, it should be noted that
   signals propagating through the above signals paths may pass through the various high
   impedance and low-impedance sections or zones in a short amount of time. That is, each of the
   various high-impedance and low-impedance sections may have a short delay associated with
   them. These delays may be shorter than the rise and fall times of the propagating signals. The
15 result is that the variation in impedance may be reduced when compared to what may be
   calculated. That is, the effective impedance for each section may be closer to the desired
   impedance value. The effective impedance of each section, and the effective impedance of the
   signal path, may be determined using conventional methods, such as transmission-line theory.
   [0098]     For example, in Figure 3, the impedances 320 and 340 may be determined. Again, for
20 illustrative purposes, the impedance 320 is shown as 95 ohms, which is 10 ohms higher than the
   desired value, while the impedance 340 is shown as 75 ohms, which is 10 ohms less than the
   desired value of 85 ohms. However, since the delays through transmission line sections 220
   (which corresponds to impedance 320) and 240 (which corresponds to impedance 340) may be
   short when compared to the rise and fall times of a signal propagating through them, the
25 effective impedances of transmission lines 220 and 240 may be closer to 85 ohms than these
   calculated values. Again, these effective impedances, and the effective impedance of the signal
   path, may be determined using conventional methods, such as transmission-line theory.
   [0099]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, the spacing, sizes, and arrangements
   of transmission line segments in a tongue may be varied to create a filter. Such a filter may
30 remove common-mode energy from differential signal pairs and other types of signals. For
   example, a choke, notch, low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, or other type filter may be formed.
   These and similar techniques may be used to filter power supplies as well, for example by
                                                    22

   1002177835
   forming a common-mode low-pass or "choke" filter. An example is shown in the following
   figures.
   [0100]     Figure 12A illustrates a spectrum of a signal passing through signal path according to
   an embodiment of the present disclosure. A signal path may have a spectrum 1230 that may be
 5 plotted as an amplitude 1210 over frequency 1220. The spectrum may have a null or low value
   near a Nyquist frequency. Variations in rise and fall times caused by the above impedance
   mismatches may create a spike 1232 near the Nyquist frequency. Common-mode and
   differential -mode impedances of signal paths through the tongue may be varied to form a
   common-mode filter to reduce the amplitude of spike 1232.
10 [0101]     Figure 12B illustrates a differential signal path having a high common-mode impedance
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, signal paths 1250 may be
   spaced away from ground plane 1240 by a distance 1242 and away from each other by distance
   1252. When distance 1242 is relatively high, the impedance between contacts 1250 and ground
   plane 1240 may be high. The resulting common-mode impedance may be approximately half of
15 the impedance between each contacts 150 and ground plane 1240. This transmission line portion
   may be combined with other transmission line portions, such as the one shown in the following
   figure, to achieve signal filtering.
   [0102]     Figure 12C illustrates a differential signal path having a low common-mode impedance
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, signal paths 1270 are
20 spaced from each other by distance 1272 and are a distance 1262 above ground plane 1260. In
   this example, the impedance between each signal path 1270 and ground plane 1260 may be low,
   resulting in the low common-mode impedance.
   [0103]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, filters may be formed of these trace
   sections by varying distances 1252, 1272, 1242, and 1262, both in absolute terms and relative to
25 each other. Similarly the thickness and width of traces 1250 and 1270, in absolute terms and
   relative to each other, may be varied. The material between and among these structures may be
   varied to change the dielectric constant or permittivity These techniques may be well-suited for
   use in connector systems that employ tongues formed using printed circuit boards, tongues using
   metallic contacts, traces, and planes supported by a plastic or nonconductive housing, or other
30 types of tongues.
   [0104]     Again, various techniques may be used by embodiments of the present disclosure to
   increase or otherwise vary a signal path's impedance to ground. Also, common-mode and
                                                       23

   1002177835
   differential-mode impedances may be varied among different sections of traces or interconnect in
   a connector. These impedances may be arranged to form distributed element filters along these
   traces. Examples are shown in the following figures.
   [0105]     Figure 13 illustrates a portion of a top surface of a connector tongue according to an
 5 embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, two traces 1310 and 1320 may be formed
   on a surface of a tongue, where the tongue is formed of a material 1330. Material 1330 may be
   plastic or other material. Material 1330 may be removed in one or more sections 1340 from
   between traces 1310 and 1320. This removal may decrease a dielectric constant or permittivity
   between traces 1310 and 1320 near sections 1340. This decrease in the dielectric constant or
10 permittivity may reduce coupling capacitance, thereby increasing the impedance between signal
   lines or traces 1300 and 1320.
   [0106]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, sections 1340 may be formed in
   various ways. For example, sections 1340 may be formed by etching, molding, micro
   machining, drilling, routing, cavitation, laser etching or ablation, or by using other
15 manufacturing techniques.
   [0107]     Figure 14 illustrates a cutaway view of the tongue section of Figure 13. This section
   view may be taken along cutline A-A in Figure 13. Again, traces 1310 and 1320 may be formed
   in a tongue made of a material 1330. Section 1340 may be formed between traces 1310 and
   1320. A center ground plane 1410 may also be included.
20 [0108]     In this example, sections 1340 may form filter sections along traces 1310 and 1320.
   For example, a differential impedance between traces 1310 and 1320 may vary along their length
   to due to these presence of sections 1340. This may form a differential filter. In various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, these sections are short enough such that a signal may not
   react to their presence and may not be filtered.
25 [0109]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, impedances at a contact on a tongue
   may be varied. Examples are shown in the following figures.
   [0110]     Figure 15 illustrates a top of a connector tongue according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. In this example, tongue 1500 may include two contacts, contacts 1510 and
   1520. Contacts 1510 and 1520 may form areas to be contacted by pins or contacts of a
30 corresponding connector. Contacts 1510 and 1520 may be connected to circuitry or components
   through traces 1512 and 1522.
                                                       24

   1002177835
   [0111]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, it may be desirable to either increase
   or decrease an impedance at contacts 1510 and 1520. It may also be desirable that these contacts
   form a portion of a common-mode filter. By blocking common-mode currents at these contacts,
   return currents may not be routed through a shield of this connector. By preventing currents
 5 from being routed on the shield, the currents do not generate a voltage at the resistance of the
   shield. In this way, electromagnetic interference that would otherwise be generated by the
   connector may be reduced.
   [0112]     Figure 16 illustrates a cross section of a connector tongue according to an embodiment
   of the present disclosure. In this example, contacts 1510 may be separated from center ground
10 plane 1610 by material 1620. One or more openings 1630 may be formed in material 1620.
   These openings may have a lower dielectric constant, thereby decreasing a capacitance between
   contacts 1510 and ground plane 1610. This may result in a higher impedance for contact 1510.
   [0113]     In this and other examples shown, instead of simply removing material to form sections
   such as 1340 and 1630, other material having different dielectric constant may be used to form
15 these sections. As before, sections 1630 may be formed by etching, molding, micro-machining,
   drilling, or by using other manufacturing techniques.
   [0114]     Figure 17 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. Again, tongue portion 1500 may include contacts 1510
   and 1520. Either or both the dielectric below contacts 1510 and 1520 or the center ground plane
20 may include a number of perforations or micro-vias 1710. Perforations 1710 may be formed
   using a drill, etch, micro-machining, or other techniques. These perforations may act to reduce a
   capacitance and increase an impedance between contacts 1510 and 1520 and ground. In various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, the use of perforations 1710 may be limited to avoid
   weakening the structure of tongue 1500.
25 [0115]     Again, in various embodiments of the present disclosure, it may be desirable to either
   raise or lower an impedance of a contact or trace. An example is shown in the following figure.
   [0116]     Figure 18 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. Again, contacts 1510 and 1520 may be located over or a
   tongue including center ground plane 1800. Center ground plane 1800 may include features
30 1810 and 1820. Features 1810 and 1820 may be a lowered recess, a raised mesa, or other type of
   feature. A lowered recess may cause a decrease in capacitance and an increase the impedance
   between contacts 1510 and 1520 and center ground plane 1800. A raised mesa may increase the
                                                      25

   1002177835
   capacitance and decrease the impedance between contacts 1510 and 1520 and center ground
   plane 1800.
   [0117]     Figure 19 illustrates a top view of a portion of a tongue according to an embodiment of
   the present disclosure. In this example, features 1810 and 1820 have been merged into a single
 5 feature 1910.
   [0118]     Again, common-mode and differential-mode impedances may be varied among
   different sections of traces or interconnect in a connector. Other structures, such as open ended
   or shorted stubs may be included. These impedances may be arranged to form distributed
   element filters along these traces.
10 [0119]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a differential-mode
   impedance may be kept constant while the common-mode impedance may be varied along a pair
   of traces, or a differential trace. These variations in common-mode impedance along a
   differential trace may be arranged using distributed element filter and transmission filter
   techniques to form filters to block common-mode signals while allowing differential-mode
15 signals pass.
   [0120]     In general, to vary a common-mode impedance while maintaining a differential-mode
   impedance between a first section of a differential trace and a second section of a differential
   trace, two or more parameters, such as spacing, width, thickness, dielectric constant, or other
   parameter, may be varied between the first and second sections. In one example, a width and a
20 spacing may be varied such that they cancel each other in terms of differential-mode impedance,
   but cause a variation in common-mode impedance along the trace. An example is shown in the
   following figure.
   [0121]     Figure 20 illustrates a top view of a portion of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, two traces, or a differential trace, in
25 section 2010 may be varied in spacing and width. In this example, along line B-B, the traces in
   section 2010 may be wider than the traces in section 2012 along line A-A. The traces in section
   2010 may be further away from each other along line B-B than the traces in sections 2012 are
   along line A-A.
   [0122]     A common-mode impedance along trace section 2010 may be higher than a common
30 mode impedance of the section 2012. This is because the traces are wider in section 2010 than
   the traces in section 2012. This change in common-mode impedance may be enhanced by
   changing the materials below the traces in sections 2010 and 2012 such that they have different
                                                      26

   1002177835
   dielectric constants. The change in common-mode impedance may additionally be enhanced by
   changing a width of a trace or a center ground plane such that the distance between the two is
   varied between sections 2010 and 2012. In various embodiments of the present disclosure,
   different materials having a different dielectric constant or permittivity may be used for materials
 5 2020 and 2030. This may be used to further change the common-mode impedance between
   these two sections.
   [0123]     Accordingly, the common-mode impedances between sections 2010 and 2012 may be
   different. However, the differential-mode impedance between traces in these sections may be a
   function of the width of traces in a section and a spacing or distance between the traces in a
10 section. Accordingly, the since the traces are narrower but closer together in section 2012 while
   being wider but further spaced in section 2010, the differential -mode impedances in sections
   2010 and 2012 may match.
   [0124]     It should be noted that the term distances as used herein may be an electrical distance
   and is not limited to a purely physical distance. The electrical distance may be a function of both
15 the physical distance and the dielectric constant or permittivity of any intervening materials.
   Accordingly, differences in a dielectric constant or permittivity of materials 2020 and 2030 may
   change the electrical distance even though the physical distance between traces in sections 2010
   and 2012 does not change.
   [0125]     In this way, common-mode impedances may be varied along a trace, while a
20 differential-mode impedance may remain relatively constant. These sections may be arranged
   using distributed element filter and transmission filter techniques to form filters to block
   common-mode signals while allowing differential-mode signals pass.
   [0126]     In the above example, a width and a spacing may be varied such that they cancel each
   other in terms of differential-mode impedance, but cause a variation in the common-mode
25 impedance along the differential trace. In other embodiments of the present disclosure, two
   parameters may be varied to cancel a variation in one other parameter. For example, a change in
   dielectric between portions of a differential trace, a change in a width of the trace, and a change
   in the spacing of the trace, may be varied such that the differential-mode impendence is kept
   constant while the common-mode impedance is varied. An example is shown in the following
30 figure.
   [0127]     Figure 21 illustrates a portion of a top surface of a connector tongue according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example, two traces having sections 2110 and
                                                       27

   1002177835
   2112 may be formed on a surface of a tongue, where the tongue is formed of a material 2120.
   Material 2120 may be plastic, printed circuit board, or other material. Material 2120 may be
   removed in one or more sections 2130 from between trace sections 2112. This removal may
   decrease a dielectric constant or permittivity between trace sections 2112. This decrease in the
 5 dielectric constant or permittivity may reduce coupling capacitance, thereby increasing the
   differential-mode impedance between trace sections 2112.
   [0128]     The traces in section 2112 may also be thinner than the traces in section 2110. This
   may further decrease coupling capacitance between traces in section 2112, thereby further
   increasing the differential-mode impedance between trace sections 2112.
10 [0129]     To compensate for these increases, the traces in section 2112 may be closer than the
   traces in section 2110. This may increase coupling capacitance between traces in section 2112,
   thereby further decreasing the differential-mode impedance between trace sections 2112. This
   decrease may be adjusted to compensate for the increases in differential-mode impedances
   caused by the traces having an opening between them and from being narrower in section 2112.
15 [0130]     While the differential-mode impedance may be constant between sections 2110 and
   2112, the common-mode impedance may vary. For example, the wider traces in section 2110
   may result in a higher capacitance to a central ground plane, leading to a lower common-mode
   impedance as compared to the trace sections 2112.
   [0131]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, opening sections 2130 may be
20 formed in various ways. For example, opening sections 2130 may be formed by etching,
   molding, micro-machining, drilling, cavitation, laser etching or ablation, or by using other
   manufacturing techniques.
   [0132]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, ground and power supply
   connections between a connector insert and a connector receptacle may form loops that traverse
25 the interface between the connector insert and the connector receptacle. These loops may
   include contacts and traces in the connector insert and the connector receptacle. These loops
   may form stray or parasitic inductances and capacitances. These inductors and capacitors may
   include tank circuits that may oscillate during device operation. Such oscillations may occur at
   very high frequencies and may cause cross-talk and electromagnetic interference.
30 [0133]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these oscillations may be
   reduced or otherwise mitigated by inserting series resistances in the loops. These series
   resistance may be resistances of ground, power, or other contacts in either or both the connector
                                                    28

   1002177835
   insert or connector receptacle. The resistance of these contacts may be increased in various ways
   in various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example, plating layers, such as a gold or
   other low-resistance layers 2930 may be omitted from all or a portion or first area 2940 of
   contact 2900, as shown in Figure 29. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a
 5 contacting surface 2910 of contact 2900 (such as contact 110 in Figure 1, as shown in Figure 29,
   or the other contacts shown here or otherwise consistent with embodiments of the present
   disclosure) may be plated with a high permeability material, such as nickel 2920, with a gold
   plated overlay 2930 to reduce impedance. A remainder or first area 2940 of contact 2900 might
   not be gold plated, thereby exposing the nickel plating 2920 on those portions. This absence of
10 gold plating 2930 may increase the resistance of a parasitic tank circuit due to the high
   permeability of nickel. More specifically, the skin depth of high permeability materials such as
   nickel is very shallow for high frequency signals (for example, 0.05 microns at 10 GHz), and this
   shallow skin depth may increase the impedance at frequency (for example, 15 ohms series
   resistance.) This may reduce the quality factor (or  Q), which may reduce the peak energy in in
15 any resonance. This may help to reduce cross-talk and electromagnetic interference. In these
   and other embodiments of the present disclosure, gold plating 2930 may be absent or omitted
   from a first area 2940 of signal pin or contact 2900 to increase the series impedance, while gold
   2930 may be present in the same first area 2940 in power and ground contacts, such as contact
   2902 shown in Figure 29.
20 [0134]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more higher-resistance
   layers may be plated over all or a portion of a contact. This higher-resistance layer may similarly
   help to reduce cross-talk and electromagnetic interference. While nickel 2920 and gold 2930 are
   shown here in this example, in these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, other
   platings with a high permeability that provide the desired series impedance may be used. That is,
25 various materials with a high permeability (ability to conduct magnetic fields), such as nickel,
   iron, or other material may be used. This material may also have a low resistance or impedance
   at low frequencies (ability to conduct electricity.) However, due to their high permeability, these
   materials may have a shallow skin depth, thereby increasing their impedance at frequency. In
   these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a high permeability material may be at
30 least partially overlaid or plated with a low impedance material.
   [0135]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a connector may be used to
   convey multiple data signals. These multiple data signals may be conveyed on signal pins or
                                                     29

   1002177835
   contacts that are nearby or adjacent to each other in a connector. These signal contacts may be
   on a same side of a connector opening or tongue or on different sides of a connector opening or
   tongue. Data signals on these nearby or adjacent pins may generate electromagnetic
   interference, which may interfere with other signals and degrade the quality of data transmission.
 5 [0136]     Accordingly, in these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a signal
   strength of a first signal may be reduced to improve a signal-to-noise ratio of a second signal.
   For example, a first signal may have a relatively large amplitude. The first signal may
   accordingly have a relatively high signal to noise ratio. A second adjacent or nearby signal may
   have a smaller amplitude. The first signal with its larger amplitude may interfere with the
10 second signal, thereby degrading the signal to noise ratio of the second signal. Conversely, the
   second, lower-amplitude signal may not interfere with the first signal to the same degree.
   Accordingly, the amplitude of the first signal may be reduced to improve system performance.
   While this amplitude reduction may degrade the signal-to-noise ratio for the first signal, it may
   provide an improved system performance by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio of the second
15 signal. That is, the first signal having a reduced amplitude may interfere with the second signal
   to a lesser degree, thereby improving the signal-to-noise ratio of the second signal. An example
   is shown in the following figure.
   [0137]     Figure 22 illustrates a portion of a connector according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. In this example, the connector portion may be a portion of a connector insert or a
20 connector receptacle. For example, this circuitry may be included in a connector insert that may
   be inserted into a connector receptacle of a first electronic device. The connector insert may be
   connected to a cable that is connected to a second electronic device via a second connector. In
   this example, data may be transmitted through the connector over a first signal path from the first
   electronic device to the second electronic device via transmitter circuitry TX1 2210 and receive
25 circuitry RX2 2230. Similarly, data may be sent from the second electronic device to the first
   electronic device over a second signal path via transmitter TX2 2240 and receiver RX1 2220.
   Transmitters TX1 2210 and TX2 2240 may have adjustable gains. Other transmitters in the first
   and second electronic devices may also have gains that may be adjusted using these and other
   embodiments of the present disclosure. In these and other embodiments of the present
30 disclosure, the circuitry shown in this connector insert may instead be in the first electronic
   device. In this and other examples here, the data paths are shown as a single line, though
   typically these may be differential signals or pseudo-differential signals.
                                                      30

   1002177835
   [0138]     The signals may couple to each other in the connector insert. In one example,
   transmitter TX1 2210 may provide a large amplitude to receiver RX2 2230. Conversely,
   transmitter TX2 2240 may provide a relatively low amplitude signal to receiver RX1 2220. The
   coupling between these signals may cause a signal-to-noise ratio of the second signal path to be
 5 reduced more than the signal-to-noise ratio of the first signal path. This may be caused by
   transmitter TX1 2210 providing a large amplitude signal, which may degrade the signal received
   by receiver RX1 2220. Conversely, the signal provided by transmitter TX2 2240 may not
   degrade the signal received at RX2 2230 to the same extent, since it has a lower-amplitude.
   Accordingly, the amplitude of the signal provided by transmitter TX1 2210 may be reduced.
10 While this reduction may decrease the signal-to-noise ratio at receiver RX2 2230, overall system
   performance may be improved as the signal-to-noise ratio of the signal received at receiver RX1
   2220 is improved.
   [0139]     In this example, the second electronic device may measure the signal amplitude at
   VOUT2 and send amplitude information back to the first electronic device using the second
15 signal path via transmitter TX2 2240 and receiver RX1 2220. The first electronic device may
   measure the received strength at VOUTI and may receive information regarding the received
   strength at VOUT2, and determine whether an adjustment to the signal amplitude of transmitter
   TX1 2210 is needed. In reversed situations where the amplitude at RX1 2220 is higher than RX2
   2230, the first electronic device may send instructions to the second electronic device adjust the
20 amplitude of the signal provided by transmitter TX2 2240. The first electronic device and the
   second electronic device may share amplitude or other signal parameter data using the first signal
   path or the second signal path. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, other
   signal paths, such as a low-speed data path may be used. For example, a universal asynchronous
   receiver-transmitter (UART) or other low-speed signal path may be used. These signal paths
25 may transmit data at 10 Mbps or other appropriate data rate. These same or similar concepts
   may be applied where the nearby or adjacent signals are both transmitters, both receivers, or any
   combination thereof. By adjusting the amplitude of one or more signals, the signal-to-noise
   ratios for two or more channels may be balanced. This may help to improve overall system
   performance by ensuring that one channel does not have a very high signal-to-noise ratio at the
30 expense of a signal-to-noise ratio for another channel. In these and other embodiments of the
   present disclosure, amplitude may be measured and adjusted to balance the signal-to-noise ratios.
   In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, other parameters, such as received eye
                                                     31

   1002177835
   width, eye height, eye area, bit error rate, or other parameter may be measured and adjusted to
   balance the signal-to-noise ratios.
   [0140]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, circuitry in any or all of the
   first electronic device, the second electronic device, the connector insert, or a second connector
 5 insert may measure an amplitude of a signal. For example, the first electronic device may
   include circuitry to measure an amplitude or other signal parameter of the VIN 1 signal that it
   provides. It may also measure the received amplitude or other signal parameter of VOUT1. The
   connector insert may include circuitry to measure the amplitude or other signal parameter of any
   of VIN1, VOUT1, VIN2 or VOUT2. The second electronic device may include circuitry to
10 measure an amplitude or other signal parameter of the VIN2 signal that it provides. It may also
   include circuitry to measure the received amplitude or other signal parameter of VOUT2. The
   connector insert may include circuitry to measure the amplitude or other signal parameter of any
   of VIN2, VOUT2, VIN1, or VOUT1. Again, in these and other embodiments of the present
   disclosure, the signal strength may be determined using amplitude or eye height, eye width, eye
15 opening, eye area, bit error rate, or other signal characteristic. Once these amplitudes or other
   signal parameters have been measured, they may be used or provided to any or all of the first
   electronic device, the second electronic device, or the connector inserts, which may adjust the
   amplitude or other signal characteristic or parameter of one or more signals in order to balance
   the signal-to-noise ratios of two or more signal paths. In these and other embodiments of the
20 present disclosure, these signals may be adjusted to balance the bit-error rate for each signal
   path. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these signals may be adjusted to
   balance the eye size or area for received signals in each signal path.
   [0141]     Figure 23 is a method of operation for the circuitry of Figure 22. In act 2310, with the
   first device, a signal strength in a receive path is determined. With the first device, a receive
25 signal strength in a transmit path may be received from a second device in act 2320. If the
   receive path is weaker, gain in a transmit path may be reduced accordingly in act 2330. If the
   transmit path is weaker, information may be sent to the second device to reduce the gain in the
   receive path (the second device's transmit path) in act 2340. In these and other embodiments of
   the present disclosure, a signal strength may be determined by measuring amplitude or eye
30 height, eye width, eye opening, eye area, bit error rate, or other signal characteristic. In these
   and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these signals may be adjusted to balance the
   signal-to-noise ratio for each signal path. In these and other embodiments of the present
                                                      32

   1002177835
   disclosure, these signals may be adjusted to balance the bit-error rate for each signal path. In
   these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these signals may be adjusted to balance
   the eye size or area for received signals in each signal path.
   [0142]     Again, it may be desirable for a ground plane in a connector receptacle tongue to form a
 5 direct or nearly direct electrical connection to a ground plane in a corresponding connector
   insert. An example of how this may be done is shown in the following figure.
   [0143]     Figure 24 illustrates a portion of a connector system according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. In this example, a connector receptacle tongue 2410 may have a central or
   other ground plane in electrical contact with a central or other ground plane in a connector insert
10 center portion 2450. Connector receptacle tongue 2410 and connector insert center portion 2450
   may each support a number of corresponding contacts (not shown.) At least a portion of a front
   surface or leading edge of a ground plane 2460 of a center portion 2450 of a connector insert
   may be exposed. This exposed portion of ground plane 2460 may be in electrical contact with
   protrusions 2420, which may extend from a ground plane (not shown) or front surface of
15 connector receptacle tongue 2410. The protrusions 2420 extending from a front surface of
   tongue 2410 and front surface or leading edge of ground plane 2460 may form an electrical
   connection, thereby connecting the ground planes to each other, while the front surfaces of
   connector receptacle tongue 2410 and connector insert center portion 2450 are separated by a
   gap. That is, a ground path from a ground plane (not shown) or front surface of connector
20 receptacle tongue 2410, through protrusions 2420, and through the front surface or ground plane
   2460 of connector insert center portion 2450.
   [0144]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a ground plane 2460 in
   connector insert portion 2450 may be connected to ground contacts 2470. Ground contacts 2470
   may connect to ground plane 2460 at points 2472. When mated with a corresponding connector
25 receptacle, contacting portions 2474 of ground contacts 2470 may electrically connect to ground
   pins 2430 on connector receptacle tongue 2410. Ground contacts 2470 may also be used as a
   high or radio frequency ground return. Contacts 2470 may be plated with nickel to increase
   resistance at high frequency (such as 10 GHz) which may lower the Qualify factor (Q) of any
   resonant structure of which it is an element. This lower    Q may provide lower peak currents and
30 reduced coupling. Ground pins 2430 may be electrically connected to the ground plane in
   connector receptacle tongue 2410. Again, in these examples, only a portion of a connector
   system may be shown. Other structures, such as contacts on the tongue, housings around the
                                                      33

   1002177835
   tongue, and other structures may be included. For example, structures common to a connector
   system such as a USB type-C connector may be included, and these figures may show only a
   portion of the connectors.
   [0145]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, instead of (or in conjunction
 5 with) forming a connection between ground planes in the connector receptacle tongue 2410 and
   ground plane 2460 in connector insert center portion 2450, a front surface or edge of connector
   insert center portion 2450 and a front surface or edge of connector receptacle tongue 2410 may
   be plated with a high permeability material. This material may be plated with a high
   permeability material having a low skin depth to provide a high impedance at high frequencies.
10 Again, these front surfaces or edges may be connected to center or other ground plane 2460 in
   connector insert portion 2450 and to a center or other ground plane in connector receptacle
   tongue 2410. This front surface or edge plating may lower the quality or   Q of a slot
   transmission line that may be formed when the connector receptacle and connector insert are
   mated. That is, when the connectors are mated, a gap between front surfaces or edges of
15 connector receptacle tongue 2410 and connector insert portion 2450 may form a slot
   transmission line. This gap may be open on each end and thus may resonate at frequency that is
   half a wavelength of the slot length. The low skin depth of the front surface or edge plating may
   make the gap resistive at high frequency. This may lower the   Q, which may lessen the coupling
   energy crossing slot-transmission line on the signal pins, which may reduce coupling among the
20 signal pins. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the high permeability
   material may be nickel, iron, or other material.
   [0146]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, other portions of these
   connectors may be formed using a high permeability material such as nickel, iron, or other
   material. For example, ground plane 2460 in connector insert portion 2450 may be formed of a
25 high permeability material. One or more ground planes (not shown) in connector receptacle
   tongue 2410 may be formed of a high permeability material. The isolation between pins on the
   top row and the bottom row of the connector tongue may be improved, as may the isolation
   between pins on the top row and the bottom row of the connector insert. In these and other
   embodiments of the present disclosure, these planes may also be connected to system grounds to
30 reduce resonances that may otherwise occur. For example, ground pins (not shown) and ground
   plane 2460 in connector insert portion 2450 may be connected to a ground in a printed circuit
   board in the connector insert in a continuous or thorough manner to reduce resonances that may
                                                    34

   1002177835
   otherwise occur. For example, ground plane 2460 may be connected to a ground plane in a
   printed circuit board with contacts having a small spacing, such as 0.5 mm, 1.0 mm, 2.0 mm, or
   other spacing. Similarly, receptacle ground pins, such as ground pins 2430, and one or more
   ground planes in connector receptacle tongue 2410 may be connected to a ground in a printed
 5 circuit board in or connected to the connector receptacle in a continuous or thorough manner to
   reduce resonances that may otherwise occur.
   [0147]     The above configuration may improve common mode impedances and reduce ground
   loops by providing a connection between ground planes in a connector receptacle and a
   connector insert. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, other impedances
10 through ground and power supply paths and impedances between ground and the power supplies
   may be reduced. Examples are shown in the following figure.
   [0148]     Figure 25 illustrates a cutaway front view of a portion of a connector receptacle tongue
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. This example may include ground
   contacts or pins 2510, signal contacts or pins 2520, and power contacts or pins 2530 along a top
15 side of the tongue, and corresponding contacts along a bottom side of the tongue. Ground and
   power supply planes 2540, 2550, 2560 may also be included. An impedance between ground pin
   2510 and ground plane 2540 may be reduced by the use of vias, illustrated here as VIAl.
   Similarly, an impedance between a power supply pin 2530 and a power supply plane 2560 may
   be reduced by the use of vias, illustrated here as VIA2. VIA2 may pass through an opening 2552
20 in ground plane 2550.
   [0149]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, it may be further desirable to
   reduce in impedance between a power supply conveyed by power supply pin 2530 and ground
   conveyed by ground pin 2510. Accordingly, a capacitor C1 may be placed between ground
   plane 2540 and power supply plane 2560. Capacitor Cl may be an actual capacitor, a portion of
25 capacitive material, or it may be a plate capacitance between ground plane 2540 and power
   supply plane 2560. Similarly, capacitor C2 may be located between power supply pin 2530 and
   ground plane 2540. As before, capacitor C2 may be an actual capacitor, a portion of capacitive
   material, or it may be plate capacitance between power supply pin 2530 and ground plane 2540.
   [0150]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, a capacitor may be located
30 between two or more of these power supply plane 2560 and ground planes 2540 and 2550.
   These capacitors may be connected to power supply pins 2530 and ground pins 2510 in various
   ways to improve performance. For example, the power supply plane 2560 and ground planes
                                                     35

   1002177835
   2540 and 2550 may be connected with vias that may extend through the tongue in order to
   reduce series inductance. The vias may be interdigitated along their lengths, for example in grid
   pattern, where adjacent vias are connected to different potentials and cater-corner grids have the
   same potential.
 5 [0151]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, it may be desirable for one or
   more of the ground pins 2510, signal pins 2520, and power pins 2530 to have significant
   coupling to the power supply plane 2560 and ground planes 2540 and 2550. This coupling may
   help to reduce the energy in resonant circuits of which they may be a part.
   [0152]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the coupling of ground pins
10 and power pins to a plane, such as power supply plane or a ground plane, may be increased in
   various ways. For example, ground pins and power pins may be routed near a power or ground
   plane to increase a coupling between the pins and plane. In these and other embodiments of the
   present disclosure, one or more capacitive structures may be coupled between one or more power
   or ground pins and a power or ground plane. For example, a differential signal may be carried
15 by a pair of signal pins. The signal pins may have adjacent power and ground pins. These
   power and ground pins may be coupled to a ground plane through corresponding capacitive
   structures.
   [0153]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the capacitive structures may
   be formed of a high-dielectric material that may be located between the pins and the plane. In
20 these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the capacitive structures may be actual
   capacitors, such as an electrolytic or ceramic capacitor, having terminals connected to the pins
   and the plane. A compliant conductive material may be used to form electrical connections
   between either or both a pin and a plane and the capacitor. More information on these
   capacitors, their possible locations, uses, and structure may be found in co-pending United States
25 patent application number 15/274,441, filed September 23, 2016, which is incorporated by
   reference.
   [0154]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, signal pins and other types of
   pins may also be routed near a ground or power plane to increase coupling. The same or similar
   capacitive structures may be located between the signal pins and a ground or power plane to
30 increase coupling. The capacitive structures may be located in a connector receptacle tongue,
   connector receptacle housing, or elsewhere in a connector receptacle. In these and other
                                                     36

   1002177835
   embodiments of the present disclosure, the structures may be located in a connector insert
   housing or other connector insert portion.
   [0155]     These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may provide high-speed data
   paths. These high-speed data paths may be used to convey multiple lower speed signals. By
 5 conveying multiple lower speed signals over a single higher speed data path, the amount of
   circuitry and conductors that is needed may be reduced. An example is shown in the following
   figure.
   [0156]     Figure 26 illustrates a cable assembly according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. In this example, first connector insert 2670 may communicate with second connector
10 insert 2690 via cable 2680. First connector insert 2670 may be inserted into a corresponding
   connector receptacle of the first electronic device (not shown), while second connector insert
   2690 may be inserted into a corresponding second electronic device (not shown). In this
   example, connector insert 2670 may receive four DisplayPort signals at transmitters TX1 2610,
   TX2 2612, TX3 2614, and TX4 2616. Pairs of DisplayPort data signals may be serialized by
15 parallel-to-serial converters 2620 and 2622, and provided to transmit circuits TX5 2630 and TX6
   2632. In this way, only two signals need to be conveyed through cable 2680, thereby reducing a
   number of conductors needed in cable 2680, as well as the number of transmitters and receivers
   needed to convey the signals through the cable. The two combined signals may be received at
   connector insert 2690 by receivers RX1 2640 and RX2 2 642. The output of these receivers may
20 be converted back to parallel data by serial-to-parallel converters 2650 and 2652. Serial-to
   parallel converters 2650 and 2652 may be clocked with a timing that de-interleaves the two data
   signals to the correct channels. The four parallel data signals may be provided to the second
   electronic device using receive circuits RX3 2660, RX4 2662, RX5 2664, and RX6 2666.
   [0157]     In this example, four parallel data signals are serialized into two parallel data signals.
25 In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, the four parallel data signals may be
   serialized into a single data signal. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure,
   different numbers of signals may be received and serialized into different numbers of data
   signals. These and other embodiments of the present disclosure may be useful where signals are
   provided in a unidirectional manner. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure,
30 the connections through cable 2680 may be fiber optic connections. These connections may
   employ laser diodes and light detecting receivers that may use PIN or avalanche diodes, or other
   light sensing devices. This is in contrast to systems where either additional fiber optic channels
                                                      37

   1002177835
   are needed in the cable along with additional transmitters and receivers, as well as bidirectional
   systems where transmitters and receivers are needed on each fiber.
   [0158]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, various signals may be
   repurposed as high-speed data signals in order to increase a data bandwidth of a connector
 5 system. An example is shown in the following figures.
   [0159]     Figure 27 illustrates a pinout for a USB type-C connector. In this example, the
   connector insert power pins SBU1 and SBU2 may be dual purposed as low speed power or
   signals and as high-speed data signals. Similarly, after a connection has been detected, or if a
   connection is detected using a different technique, connector detect pins CCl and CC2 may be
10 repurposed as high-speed data pins. Similarly, USB data pins D+ and D- may be repurposed or
   multi-purposed as high-speed data pins. In one example, the four of these pins along the top row
   of pins may be used to convey high-speed data signals, while the four of these pins in the bottom
   row of pins may also be used to convey high-speed data signals. In these and other embodiments
   of the present disclosure, any combination of these or other pins may be used to convey high
15 speed signals. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, three, five, six, seven,
   eight, or more than eight pins may be used.
   [0160]     In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, various types of signals may
   be sent using these dual-purpose pins. Signal schemes that use of both the differential and
   common mode aspects of signals may be included. For example, an N conductor transmission
20 line system may have N-I pseudo- differential modes that may be orthogonal to each other.
   Each of these N-I pseudo-differential modes or signals may be used to convey information. The
   common mode of these signals may also be used to convey information, for example as a low
   speed signal.
   [0161]     Again, in these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more groups of
25 four pins may be multi-purposed as high-speed pins. These high-speed pins may convey signals
   that may be sent over the orthogonal eigen modes. One of these eigen modes may be a common
   mode, while the others may be variations of generalized case of differential signaling for higher
   wire counts than two. In these and other embodiments of the present disclosure, these four pins
   may be used to convey three pseudo-differential signals. In these and other embodiments of the
30 present disclosure, different numbers of pins may be used to convey different numbers of signals.
   An example of how the USB data pins may be repurposed is shown in the following figure.
                                                     38

   1002177835
   [0162]     Figure 28 illustrates circuitry to allow USB data pins to be repurposed as high-speed
   data pins. In this example, an input signal may be received at transmitter TXi 2710, which may
   be located in electronic device 2802. Transmitter TXi 2710 may be coupled to circuitry in
   connector insert 2804. When the output of transmitter TXi 2710 is a high-speed signal, the
 5 VBIAS signal may forward bias pin diodes PINI and PIN2, allowing them to conduct, and
   switches SI and S2 may open. The high-speed signals provided by transmitter TX1 2710 may
   then be received by receiver RX1 2720. Blocking inductors LI and L2 may be located close to
   the signal path so as not to create stubs that may degrade high-frequency signal performance.
   When low-speed data is received by transmitter TXi 2710, switches SI and S2 may close and
10 VBIAS may return low, thereby causing pin diodes PINI and PIN2 to appear as open circuits.
   The low-speed data may pass through blocking inductors LI and L2 and pass through closed
   switches SI and S2, to be received as data signals D+ and D-. In these and other embodiments
   of the present disclosure, an analog or other suitable high-frequency multiplexer may replace at
   least inductors LI and L2 and their switches SI and S2, along with pin diodes PINI and PIN2,
15 and their respective biasing resistors RI and R2. The capacitors CI and C2 may still be needed
   to decouple the signal from transmitter 2810. Resistors RI and R2 may be needed to restore a
   DC level to the AC coupled signal.
   [0163]     Again, in these examples, only a portion of a connector system may be shown. Other
   structures, such as contacts on the tongue, housings around the tongue, and other structures may
20 be included. For example, structures common to a connector system such as a USB type-C
   connector may be included, and these figures may show only a portion of the connectors.
   [0164]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, contacts, ground planes, traces, and
   other conductive portions of connector inserts and receptacles may be formed by stamping,
   metal-injection molding, machining, micro-machining, 3-D printing, or other manufacturing
25 process. The conductive portions may be formed of stainless steel, steel, copper, copper
   titanium, phosphor bronze, or other material or combination of materials. They may be plated or
   coated with nickel, gold, or other material. The nonconductive portions may be formed using
   injection or other molding, 3-D printing, machining, or other manufacturing process. The
   nonconductive portions may be formed of rubber, hard rubber, plastic, nylon, liquid-crystal
30 polymers (LCPs), or other nonconductive material or combination of materials. The printed
   circuit boards used may be formed of FR-4, BT or other material. Printed circuit boards may be
                                                       39

   1002177835
   replaced by other substrates, such as flexible circuit boards, in many embodiments of the present
   disclosure.
   [0165]     Embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connectors that may be located in,
   and may connect to, various types of devices, such as portable computing devices, tablet
 5 computers, desktop computers, laptops, all-in-one computers, wearable computing devices, cell
   phones, smart phones, media phones, storage devices, portable media players, navigation
   systems, monitors, power supplies, adapters, remote control devices, chargers, and other devices.
   These connectors may provide pathways for signals that are compliant with various standards
   such as Universal Serial Bus (USB) including USB-C, High-Definition Multimedia Interface
10 (HDMI), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), Ethernet, DisplayPort, Thunderbolt, Lightning, Joint
   Test Action Group (JTAG), test-access-port (TAP), Directed Automated Random Testing
   (DART), universal asynchronous receiver/transmitters (UARTs), clock signals, power signals,
   and other types of standard, non-standard, and proprietary interfaces and combinations thereof
   that have been developed, are being developed, or will be developed in the future. Other
15 embodiments of the present disclosure may provide connectors that may be used to provide a
   reduced set of functions for one or more of these standards. In various embodiments of the
   present disclosure, these interconnect paths provided by these connectors may be used to convey
   power, ground, signals, test points, and other voltage, current, data, or other information.
   [0166]     The above description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for the
20 purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the
   invention to the precise form described, and many modifications and variations are possible in
   light of the teaching above. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best
   explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others
   skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various
25 modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Thus, it will be appreciated that
   the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the
   following claims.
                                                       40

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                   1.       An electronic device comprising:
                   a first circuit for receiving a first plurality of signals via a first plurality of
   contacts of a universal serial bus type-C connector; and
 5                 a second circuit for receiving a second plurality of signals via the first plurality of
   contacts of the universal serial bus type-C connector, wherein the first plurality of contacts
   consists of N contacts and the first plurality of signals and the second plurality of signals are
   received via the same N contacts of the universal serial bus type-C connector, where N is greater
   than two,
10                 wherein the first plurality of signals comprises two or more signals selected from
   two low-speed data signals, a connection detect signal, and a power supply,
                   wherein the second plurality of signals comprises N-I pseudo differential signals,
   and
                   wherein the first plurality of signals and the second plurality of signals are not
15 simultaneously received on the first plurality of contacts.
                   2.       A connector system comprising:
                   a connector receptacle comprising:
                   a tongue having a top side, a bottom side, and a leading edge facing a connector
   insert when the connector insert is mated with the connector receptacle, the tongue comprising:
20                          a first plurality of contacts on the top side;
                            a second plurality of contacts on the bottom side; and
                            a central ground plane between the top side and the bottom side,
                   wherein the central ground plane extends from the leading edge of the tongue to
   physically and electrically connect to a central ground plane of a connector insert when the
25 connector insert is mated with the connector receptacle.
                   3.       A connector system comprising:
                   a connector receptacle comprising a tongue, the tongue having a central ground
   plane terminating in a front edge, the tongue further including a plurality of contacts; and
                   a connector insert having a center portion, the center portion having a central
30 ground plane terminating in a front edge of the tongue such that when the connector receptacle
                                                        41

   and connector insert are mated, the front edge of the tongue and the front edge of the center
   portion face each other and are separated by a gap,
                   wherein the front edge of tongue and the front edge of the center portion are
   plated with a high-permeability material.
 5                 4.       A connector system comprising:
                   a connector receptacle comprising a tongue, the tongue having a central ground
   plane terminating in a front edge, the tongue further including a plurality of contacts;
                   a connector insert having a center portion, the center portion having a central
   ground plane terminating in a front edge such that when the connector receptacle and connector
10 insert are mated, the front edge of the tongue and the front edge of the center portion face each
   other and are separated by a gap; and
                   a plurality of protrusions extending from the front edge of one of the connector
   receptacle tongue or connector insert center portion to contact the front edge of the other of the
   connector receptacle tongue or connector insert center portion when the connector receptacle and
15 connector insert are mated.
                   5.       An electronic device comprising:
                   a universal serial bus type-C connector comprising a first plurality of contacts and
   a second plurality of contacts, each of the first plurality of contacts and each of the second
   plurality of contacts having a first area,
20                 the first plurality of contacts and the second plurality of contacts each having a
   first layer comprising a first material and a second layer comprising a second material, the
   second layer over the first layer,
                   wherein the second layer is present in the first area of each of the first plurality of
   contacts and the second layer is absent from the first area of each of the second plurality of
25 contacts,
                   wherein the first material has a high permeability, a low impedance at low
   frequencies, and a high impedance at high frequencies, and
                   wherein the second material has a low permeability, a low impedance at low
   frequencies, and a low impedance at high frequencies, wherein the permeability of the first
30 material is higher than the permeability of the second material.
                                                      42

                                     <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                                  100
             112
                               110
 114
152
      153          150                 120
                         154
       160
                                      130
       170           180
                                                                          Replacement Sheet
                                                           1 / 29
                                                                    Application Number 15/721,041
                     140
                     FIG. 1

                                     <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                  112
                                                   110
      152
                         150               120
            160
                                             130
            170            180
                                                                           Replacement Sheet
                           140                              2 / 29
                                                                     Application Number 15/721,041
270         260    240         220   210
                  250     230
                         FIG. 2

                                          <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                           110
              152
                          150                     120
                             140
                    160
                                                 130
                    170
                            180
                                                                               Replacement Sheet
                                                                3 / 29
                                                                         Application Number 15/721,041
                            320
Z. 95
   85         360
        370
   75                               310
                    340
                               FIG. 3

                          Replacement Sheet
                    Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                       4 / 29
                           400
<removed-apn>
                                 420
              416
                                                    FIG. 4
              414
              412   440
              410    420

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
510   512    514   516
      540
530
                   520
       522
                                       500
                                                             Replacement Sheet
                                              5 / 29
                                                       Application Number 15/721,041
              FIG. 5

                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
610   612    614   616   632
       640
630
       622                     644
                   620                                         Replacement Sheet
                                        600
                                                6 / 29
                                                         Application Number 15/721,041
                               633
              FIG. 6

                              <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
710   712   714   716
      740
730
                  720          760
                                                                    Replacement Sheet
                                           700
                                                     7 / 29
                        770
                                                              Application Number 15/721,041
             FIG. 7

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
810   812    814   816
830   840
       822         820            860
                                                                   Replacement Sheet
                                            800
                                                    8 / 29
                         870
                                                             Application Number 15/721,041
              FIG. 8

                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
910   912   914   916
      940
930
      922         920
                                                                  Replacement Sheet
                                           900
                                                   9 / 29
                                                            Application Number 15/721,041
                        970   960
             FIG. 9

                                             <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
       1012
                     1010
1052
                             1050                    1020
                                    1040
                                                   1030
                                                                                    Replacement Sheet
                                                                    10 / 29
              1070
                            1080
                                                                              Application Number 15/721,041
                                   FIG. 10

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  1110
1154
   1156                    1150
                                  1140
                         1152
  1155           1157
                                                                               Replacement Sheet
          1170                                                 11 / 29
                                                                         Application Number 15/721,041
                                FIG. 11

                                  <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                                               1250
                                  1252
                                           1242
1210
                                               1240
           1232
                  1230
                                                                          Replacement Sheet
                                FIG. 12B                  12 / 29
                                                   1270
                                  1272                              Application Number 15/721,041
                         1220
       FIG. 12A                                1262
                                                  1260
                                FIG. 12C

                                             Replacement Sheet
                                       Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                                  13 / 29
                         1340
<removed-apn>
                                                                           FIG. 13
              A                                                        A
                                          1320
                  1310
                                1330

                             Replacement Sheet
                       Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                  14 / 29
                                                       1410
<removed-apn>
                1330
                                                              FIG. 14
              1320
              1340
              1310

                                  Replacement Sheet
                            Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                       15 / 29
<removed-apn>
                                                    1522
                     1512
                                                                          FIG. 15
              1510
                                                            1520
                                                                   1500

                           Replacement Sheet
                     Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                16 / 29
                     1630
              1510
<removed-apn>
                                                     FIG. 16
                               1620         1610

                                     Replacement Sheet
                               Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                          17 / 29
<removed-apn>
                            1512                           1522
                                                                         FIG. 17
                     1510
                                                                  1520
              1710
                                                                  1500

                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         1810
                   1510
                          1512
                                                                  Replacement Sheet
                                                  18 / 29
                                                            Application Number 15/721,041
                          1522
                1520
1800   1820
              FIG. 18

                                  Replacement Sheet
                            Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                       19 / 29
<removed-apn>
                                                            1522
                             1512
                                                                             FIG. 19
                     1510
                                                                   1520
              1910
                                                                      1900

                                      Replacement Sheet
                                Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                           20 / 29
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  FIG. 20
              A
                                                                       A
                         2012
                                                                2030
                  2010                                                     2020
              B
                                                                       B

                                      Replacement Sheet
                                Application Number 15/721,041
<removed-date>
                                           21 / 29
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  FIG. 21
              A
                                                                       A
                         2112
                                                                2130
                  2110                                                     2120
              B
                                                                       B

                               <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
              2210                       2230
VIN1                                             VOUT2
        TX1                        RX2
                                                                         Replacement Sheet
                                                         22 / 29
VOUT1                                             VIN2
                                                                   Application Number 15/721,041
               RX1                        TX2
         2220                       2240
                     FIG. 22

                                                          <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                                                                2310
      WITH FIRST DEVICE, DETERMINE SIGNAL STRENGTH IN RECEIVE PATH
    WITH FIRST DEVICE, RECEIVE SIGNAL STRENGTH IN TRANSMIT PATH FROM            2320
                              SECOND DEVICE
                                                                                                       Replacement Sheet
                                                                                2330   23 / 29
WITH FIRST DEVICE, IF RECEIVE PATH IS WEAKER, REDUCE GAIN IN TRANSMIT PATH
                                                                                                 Application Number 15/721,041
WITH FIRST DEVICE, IF TRANSMIT PATH IS WEAKER, SEND INFORMATION TO SECOND       2340
                    DEVICE TO REDUCE GAIN IN RECEIVE PATH
                                   FIG. 23

                                  <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
       2474                2470
                                         2472
       2430    2460
                                                                        Replacement Sheet
              2420
                                                        24 / 29
                                                                  Application Number 15/721,041
2410
                                  2450
                 FIG. 24

                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2510   2520               2530
                              C2
VIA1
                                                  2540
              C1                                                         Replacement Sheet
                                                  2560
                                                         25 / 29
                                                  2550
                                                                   Application Number 15/721,041
               2552       VIA2
                       2530
                      FIG. 25

                                                   <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
VIN1                                                                    VOUT1
       TX1                                                 RX3
                P-TO-S   TX5              RX1     S-TO-P
         2610                                               2660
        2612              2630             2640
                                                                        VOUT2
                 2620                              2650    RX4
VIN1
       TX2
                                                            2662                                Replacement Sheet
         2614
                                                                                26 / 29
VIN1                                                                    VOUT3
       TX3                                                 RX5                            Application Number 15/721,041
                P-TO-S   TX6              RX2     S-TO-P
                                                            2664
         2616             2632             2642
                                                                 2666
                 2622                              2652
VIN1                                                                    VOUT4
       TX4                                                 RX6
                               2680
                 2670                             2690
                                FIG. 26

                                                   <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
      TX1   TX1                                          RX2   RX2
GND               VBUS   CC1     D+   D-   SBU1   VBUS                  GND
       +     -                                            -      +
                                                                                              Replacement Sheet
                                                                              27 / 29
      RX1   RX1                                          TX2    TX2
GND               VBUS   SBU2    D-   D+   CC2    VBUS                  GND
                                                                                        Application Number 15/721,041
       +     -                                            -      +
                                FIG. 27

                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                D+
                                    VBIAS
               S1
                         L1                 R1
                              C1             PIN1
                                                                                           Replacement Sheet
       TX1                                               RX1        VOUT
VIN
                                                                           28 / 29
                              C2             PIN2
                                                                                     Application Number 15/721,041
        2810                                              2820
                     L2                 R2
                    S2
                                    VBIAS
               D-
      2802                FIG. 28                         2804

                              <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                   2900
                            2920
2910
                               2940
       2930
                                                                     Replacement Sheet
                     2902                            29 / 29
2910                         2920
                                                               Application Number 15/721,041
         2930                         2940
                FIG. 29

