                                                 19
                                              Abstract
     A combination vehicle for road transport of heavy goods. The vehicle comprises:
         -    a prime mover at the front,
  5      -    a first semi-trailer comprising a first semi-trailer body attached directly to the
             prime mover, and
         -   a trailer attached to be towed behind the first semi-trailer.
    The trailer comprises:
         -   a second semi-trailer body,
10       -   a dolly mounted beneath the front of the second semi-trailer body and having
             a dolly frame connected to the second semi-trailer body by a pivoting
             connection, and
         -   a drawbar assembly connecting the dolly frame to the rear of the first
             semi-trailer.
15  The rear of the first semi-trailer is supported by only a first single axle set, and the
    trailer is supported by an arrangement of exactly three axles.

                                               1
                    Multi-articulated Goods-carrying Road Vehicle
  5  Field of the Invention
     This invention concerns multi-articulated goods-carrying road vehicles.            It is
     particularly concerned with such vehicles having lengths of around 20 to 26 metres
     and GCM of up to 85.5 tonnes.
 10
     Background to the Invention
     Multi-articulated goods-carrying road vehicles are types of heavy goods combination
     vehicles and typically comprise either a rigid truck or prime mover and two or more
15   semi-trailers with or without converter dollies.
     Articulated road vehicles come in many different sizes. In general, the longer the
    vehicle is, and the more wheels it has, the greater the load it can carry. However road
    authorities regulate the load upon, and spacing of, axles to control the loads placed on
20  roads and particularly bridges, so heavier and larger and longer vehicles are restricted
    in their access to certain roadways.      However with increased length comes the
    disadvantage of reduced low-speed manoeuvrability which is required for travelling
    on existing roads, through intersections and turning in restricted spaces. To increase
    low-speed manoeuvrability for a given length of vehicle, the number of articulation
25  points    can   be    increased.     But  this    generally   reduces    the high-speed
    stability/manoeuvrability of the vehicle as does shortening the length of the vehicle.
    There has historically thus been a trade-off between low-speed manoeuvrability
    (swept path) and high-speed stability/manoeuvrability.
30  In this specification the following explanations apply to certain terms:

                                        2
     a) A "heavy goods combination vehicle" is a heavy goods or road transport
    vehicle with at least one articulation point.
    b) A "semi-trailer" is a towed vehicle unit of a heavy goods combination
  5 vehicle whose means of attachment to the preceding vehicle unit (a prime
    mover, another semi-trailer, or a converter dolly) results in some of its vertical
    load being imposed on said preceding unit through a tow coupling and whose
    rear is supported by a single axle or multiple axle set (tandem, tri or quad axle
    set) located towards the rear.
 10
    c) An "axle set" or "axle group" is either:
         -   a group of axles, including their road wheels, beneath a vehicle unit in
             sufficiently close proximity to each other that their interactions with
            the pavement beneath are considered to overlap, or
15      -    a single axle including its road wheels mounted beneath a vehicle unit.
    A tandem axle set has two axles in close proximity and a tri-axle set has three
    axles in close proximity.
    d) A "converter dolly" (also called a "dolly" or "forecarriage") is a towed
20  vehicle unit of a heavy goods combination vehicle whose tow coupling to the
    preceding vehicle unit (a rigid truck, a prime mover or another semi-trailer)
    results in little or none of its vertical load being imposed on said preceding
    vehicle unit through the tow coupling device (see below) and whose rear is
    supported by one or more single axles or a tandem or tri-axle set located at or
25  near to the centre of the main load carrying area. The main load bearing or
    carrying area of a converter dolly usually incorporates a tow coupling device
    (quick release fifth wheel coupling or ballrace turntable) so that the dolly may
    be mounted beneath the front of a semi-trailer body, thereby converting the
    semi-trailer into a "trailer". In some countries a converter dolly is also known
30  as a pivoting bogie, a dolly truck or a special truck.

                                        3
     e) A "trailer" in a heavy goods combination vehicle is a towed vehicle unit
     that can be either a semi-trailer, or a combination of a converter dolly plus a
     semi-trailer.
  5  f) A "dog trailer" is a trailer with two axle groups of which the front axle
     group is steered by connection to the preceding vehicle unit by way of a
     drawbar assembly.
     g) A "prime mover" is a vehicle unit of a heavy goods combination vehicle
10   built to tow a semi-trailer or a converter dolly.
     h) A "vehicle unit" is either a trailer, a semi-trailer, a converter dolly, or a
     motor vehicle. Thus a combination vehicle has a plurality of such vehicle
     units connected by an articulated coupling between each adjacent vehicle unit.
15
     i) A "coupling" is a mechanical assembly which provides connection between
     one vehicle unit (the leading vehicle unit) and another vehicle unit (the trailing
     vehicle unit) immediately behind. Typically a first part of the coupling is
     affixed to the leading vehicle unit, a second part of the coupling is affixed to
20  the trailing vehicle unit and the first and second parts are releasably or
    permanently connected.
    j)  A "coupling assembly" is an assembly of one or more couplings which
    connect a drawbar assembly to a vehicle unit immediately in front.
25
    k) A "fifth wheel coupling" or "fifth wheel assembly" provides a connection
    and means of articulation between a semi-trailer and the vehicle unit
    immediately ahead (the towing unit). The coupling consists of a kingpin on
    the front of the semi-trailer, and a horseshoe-shaped component called a fifth
30  wheel on the rear of the towing unit. These two components when coupled
    are locked together using a quick release mechanism.          When coupled the
    kingpin is free to rotate in the fifth wheel so providing articulation between
    the linked vehicle units. The fifth wheel can tilt fore and aft on a horizontal

                                        4
    pin thus providing for vertical angulation between linked vehicle units. The
    fifth wheel is not free to tilt sideways thereby roll coupling the linked vehicle
    units. In practice there is some freeplay (or lash) in the connection allowing
     some sideways tilt under heavy sideways loads and usually evident only when
  5 the vehicle is close to rollover.
    1) A "ballrace turntable" is a type of coupling used to provide articulation
    between a semi-trailer and the vehicle unit immediately ahead. In contrast to
    a fifth wheel coupling it essentially provides no vertical or sideways tilt
10  between the vehicle units thereby attached.
    m) A "drawbar assembly" is the portion of a dolly that connects the dolly's
    frame or chassis to the vehicle unit in front for towing purposes.
15  n) A "ringfeder" is a generic name (previously a trademark) commonly used
    worldwide to identify a type of automatic bolt coupling device (pin-type
    hitch/coupling) utilizing a swivelable cast bell portion with a horizontal
    opening and a machined pin which connects to a towing eye located on the
    front of a drawbar assembly. The connection between the towing eye and the
20  pin is a "rotationally free joint" equivalent to a ball joint. The hitch point of a
    ringfeder coupling is at the longitudinal axis of the pin which engages with the
    towing eye of the drawbar.
    o) The Gross Combination Mass (or GCM) of a combination vehicle is a
25  value specified by the manufacturer as being the maximum of the sum of the
    maximum laden mass of the prime mover plus the sum of the Axle Loads of
    all other vehicle units in the combination vehicle.

                                                   5
     Summary of the Invention
     In one aspect the invention provides a combination vehicle for road transport of
     heavy goods, said vehicle comprising:
  5       -   a prime mover at the front,
          -   a first semi-trailer comprising a first semi-trailer body adapted to carry goods
              and attached directly to the prime mover so as to be towed behind the prime
              mover, and
          -   a trailer attached to said first semi-trailer so as to be towed behind the first
 10           semi-trailer,
     said trailer comprising:
         -    a second semi-trailer body adapted to carry goods,
         -    a dolly mounted beneath the front of said second semi-trailer body and having
             a dolly frame connected to the second semi-trailer body by a pivoting
 15          connection, and
         -   a drawbar assembly connecting the dolly frame to the rear of said first
             semi-trailer,
    wherein:
         -   the rear of the first semi-trailer is supported by only a first single axle set, and
20       -   said trailer is supported by an arrangement of exactly three axles.
    In some embodiments of the combination vehicle said arrangement of three axles
    comprise one tandem axle set plus a second single axle set. In those embodiments:
         -   said tandem axle set is preferably attached to said dolly frame, and
25       -   said second single axle set preferably attached to the rear of said second semi
             trailer.
    Alternatively, in the combination vehicle said arrangement of three axles may
    comprise:
30      -    said tandem axle set attached to the rear of said second semi-trailer, and
        -    said second single axle set attached to said dolly frame.

                                                 6
      Said pivoting connection may comprise a quick release fifth wheel coupling or a
      ballrace turntable.
      In other embodiments of the combination vehicle, said arrangement of three axles
  5   comprises:
          -   a pair of single axle sets attached to said dolly frame, and
          -   said second single axle set attached to the rear of said second semi-trailer,
     wherein the single axle sets in said pair are separated sufficiently to be considered
     separate single axle sets for the purposes of calculating acceptable loads on road
 10  pavement to be used by said vehicle.            In this configuration the dolly may be
     considered to be a trailer, comprising two axle groups of which the front axle group is
     steered by connection to the drawing vehicle.
     In said other embodiments, said pivoting connection preferably comprises a quick
 15  release fifth wheel turntable for improved load sharing.
     Preferably the tow coupling overhang at the rear of said first semi-trailer is no more
     than 950mm, more preferably no more than 750mm, and still more preferably no
     more than 650mm.
20
    Preferably the rear of said prime mover has exactly two axle sets.
    Preferably the vehicle has a gross combination mass in the range 48 to 65 tonnes.
25  The vehicle is particularly adapted for transportation of materials in bulk where the
    materials have a bulk density greater than 800 kg/m 3 . The vehicle suits transportation
    of liquids in bulk, materials that flow (cement and other powders), quarry products,
    log load and timbers, or grain. The vehicle is well adapted for transportation of ISO
    standard 20 foot shipping containers (skel type semi-trailers). The vehicle is also well
30  adapted for transportation of general freight in curtainsider (tautliner) type semi
    trailers.

                                                 7
     Brief Description of the Drawings
     In order that the invention may be more fully understood there will now be described,
     by way of example only, preferred embodiments and other elements of the invention
  5  with reference to the accompanying drawings where:
            Figure 1 is a side view of a first heavy goods combination vehicle in the prior
            art and identified in Australia as having an A-double configuration;
            Figure 2 is a side view of a second heavy goods combination vehicle in the
           prior art and identified in Australia as having a B-double configuration;
 10        Figure 3 is a side view of a third heavy goods combination vehicle in the prior
           art and identified in Australia as having a "mini B-double" configuration;
           Figure 4 is a side view of a fourth vehicle known in the prior art and identified
           in Australia as having an A-double configuration;
           Figure 5 is a side view of a heavy goods combination vehicle according to a
15         first embodiment of the present invention;
           Figure 6 is a side view of a heavy goods combination vehicle according to a
           second embodiment of the present invention which is preferred to the first
           embodiment shown in Figure 5;
           Figure 7 is a side view of a heavy goods combination vehicle according to a
20         third embodiment of the present invention which is less preferred than the first
           embodiment shown in Figure 5;
           Figure 8 is a side view of a vehicle outside the scope of the present invention;
           Figure 9 is an enlarged view of portion of Figure 4; and
           Figure 10 is an enlarged view of portion of Figure 5, which portion is the same
25         as the corresponding portions of Figures 6 and 7.
    Discussion of the Prior Art Shown in the Drawings
    The A-double combination vehicle 110 in Figure 1 is a road transport vehicle
30  comprising a prime mover 112 to which is attached a front semi-trailer 114 followed
    by a trailer 116. It is shown carrying either two 40 foot ISO shipping containers, but
    these could alternatively be four 20 foot ISO shipping containers.          An A-double

                                              8
     vehicle of this type can typically extend up to 36.5 metres in length and have a fully
     laden weight of up to 85.5 tonnes.
     The prime mover 112 has a pair of steering wheels 122 and a double-axle (tandem)
  5 rear axle group 124 comprising a front axle set 128 and a rear axle set 130. The front
     semi-trailer 114 has its front supported by the prime mover 112 by means of a quick
    release fifth wheel coupling 132 and its rear is supported by a tri-axle rear axle group
     126.
 10 The trailer 116 comprises a rear semi-trailer 118 plus a dolly 120 which supports the
    front of the rear semi-trailer. The rear semi-trailer 118 and dolly 120 together form
    the trailer 116. The rear of the rear semi-trailer 118 is supported by a tri-axle rear
    axle group 134.
15  The dolly 120 has eight road wheels on a tandem axle set 138 attached to the dolly
    frame 140. The axles in the axle set 138 extend across the dolly frame in a direction
    transverse to the normal direction of travel of the vehicle. The dolly frame 140 pivots
    around a vertical axis 135 relative to the rear semi-trailer 118 by means of a fifth
    wheel coupling 136. The dolly frame 140 is attached to the front semi-trailer 114 by
20  a drawbar assembly 142 attached by a ringfeder coupling 144 at a hitch point 146 on
    the rear of the front semi-trailer 114.
    The B-double combination vehicle 210 in Figure 2 is a road transport vehicle
    comprising a prime mover 212 to which is attached a front semi-trailer 214 and a rear
25  semi-trailer 218. The prime mover 212 is the same as the prime mover 112 in Figure
    1 and the rear semi-trailer 218 is the same as the rear semi-trailer 118 in Figure 1.
    However the rear of the front semi-trailer 214 carries a fifth wheel coupling 236 to
    which is directly coupled the front of the rear semi-trailer 218. Such a configuration
    has the advantage of improved dynamic stability compared with the A-double in
30  Figure 1 but with the disadvantage of a reduced turning ability in low speed turns, by
    way of a significantly larger swept path. As the B-double vehicle 210 has less axle
    sets than the A-double vehicle 110, the allowable gross mass of the combination

                                               9
    vehicle is reduced. A B-double vehicle of this type can extend up to 26 metres in
    length and have a fully laden weight of up to 68.5 tonnes.
    Figure 3 shows a vehicle 310 having a so-called "mini B-double" configuration. In
  5 Australia this configuration is used in lengths up to 20 metres because that is the
    maximum length allowed by the road authorities for "general access" to all roads.
    The vehicle would typically gross up to 57.5 tonne fully laden on routes approved for
    higher mass limits axle group loads, but is significantly shorter than the B-double
    shown in Figure 2 in order to provide better low-speed turning characteristics and
10  thus access to a wider range of roads and loading/unloading stations. It is therefore
    particularly adapted for loading in confined spaces such as when collecting bulk milk
    from dairy farms, or delivering liquid fuels to retail gasoline filling stations.
    In the vehicle 310 a prime mover 312 is attached to a front semi-trailer 314 and a rear
15  semi-trailer 318 by respective fifth wheel couplings 332 and 336. The prime mover
    312 in Figure 3 is the same as the prime mover 212 in Figure 2 but the front semi
    trailer 314 has only a tandem axle group 326 supporting its rear, and the rear semi
    trailer 318 also has only a tandem axle group 334 supporting its rear.
20  The A-double combination vehicle 410 shown in Figure 4 has the same prime mover
    412 and front semi-trailer 414 as the corresponding vehicle units in Figure 1, but
    vehicle 410 has a shortened rear trailer 416 (having a configuration which in
    Australia is referred to as a dog trailer). In Australia vehicles of this configuration
    would extend up to 26 metres in length. The lower overall length of the vehicle 410
25  compared to vehicle 110 allows access to more roads because of its better low-speed
    manoeuvrability (lower swept path).
    The front semi-trailer 414 has its rear supported by a tri-axle rear axle group 426.
    The trailer 416 comprises a rear semi-trailer 418 plus a single-axle dolly 420 which
30  supports the front of the rear semi-trailer. The rear of the rear semi-trailer 418 is
    supported by a tandem rear axle group 434. The dolly 420 has four road wheels on a
    single axle set 438 attached to the dolly frame 440. The dolly frame 440 is attached

                                               10
     to the front semi-trailer 414 by a drawbar assembly 442 attached by a ringfeder
     coupling 444 at a hitch point 446 on the rear of the front semi-trailer 414.
     However, it has been found in practice that vehicles having the configuration shown
  5  in Figure 4 have particularly unfavourable high-speed dynamic stability and
     manoeuvrability which have contributed to a number of accidents on public roads
     and, as a consequence, their maximum permitted GCM has been reduced.
     Accordingly, for that particular size of vehicle there has been a market preference for
     vehicles of the "mini B-double" configuration shown in Figure 3 despite its less
 10  favourable low-speed manoeuvrability (swept path).
    Description of the Preferred Embodiment and Other Examples of the Invention
    The A-double combination vehicle 510 in Figure 5 is a road transport vehicle
15  comprising a prime mover 512 to which is attached a front semi-trailer 514 followed
    by a trailer 516. It is shown carrying two tanks 552 and 554 for transportation of
    liquid in bulk although many other load retention configurations (including two 20
    foot containers) are feasible. It has a length of 20 metres and can gross up to 60.5
    tonne fully laden when operating on approved routes at higher mass limits.
20
    The prime mover 512 has a pair of steering wheels 522 and a double-axle (tandem)
    rear axle group 524 comprising a front axle set 528 and a rear axle set 530. The front
    semi-trailer 514 has its front supported by the prime mover 512 by means of a quick
    release fifth wheel coupling 532 and its rear is supported by a single rear axle 526.
25
    The trailer 516 comprises a rear semi-trailer 518 plus a dolly 520 which supports the
    front of the rear semi-trailer. The rear of the rear semi-trailer 518 is supported by a
    single rear axle 534.
30  The dolly 520 has eight road wheels on a tandem axle set 538 attached to the dolly
    frame 540.     The two axles 539 and 541 in the tandem axle set 538 are in close
    proximity, being spaced at about 1400 mm measured wheel centre to wheel centre.

                                                 11
      The dolly frame 540 pivots around a vertical axis 535 relative to the rear semi-trailer
      518 by means of a ballrace turntable 536 or (less preferably) a quick release fifth
     wheel turntable. The ballrace turntable option allows less lash freeplay than the fifth
     wheel coupling option, and thus improves rollover stability. The dolly frame 540 is
  5  attached to the front semi-trailer 514 by a drawbar assembly 542 attached by a
     ringfeder coupling 544 at a hitch point 546 on the rear of the front semi-trailer 514.
     An unusual feature of the trailer 516 is that the axle sets are positioned in an
     unconventional manner beneath the trailer body. In particular, the dolly 520 provides
 10  a tandem axle set 538 at the front of the trailer while the rear of the trailer has only a
     single axle rear axle group 524. This allows for a longer extreme axle measurement
     (distance from first axle to last axle) leading to better bridge loading and improved
     dynamic stability and manoeuvrability.           For a 3-axle trailer it would have
     conventionally been expected that the tandem axle set would be on the rear and the
15   single axle would be on the dolly as shown for the prior art in Figure 4.          But that
     would only allow for a shorter extreme axle measurement leading to worse bridge
     loading, worse dynamic stability and worse manoeuvrability.
    As a result of substantial sophisticated computer modelling by the inventors, it has
20  been found that the configuration of the A-double vehicle 510 shown in Figure 5 has
    particularly good low speed turning characteristics together with good high speed
    dynamic stability and manoeuvrability. Such a combination in a vehicle of this size
    has not been achievable previously. The vehicle 510 has such good low-speed turn
    characteristics that it is preferred to not use a self-steer axle for either of the axles on
25  the dolly 520 because the self-steer axle would unnecessarily, though only slightly,
    reduce the rollover stability of the vehicle.
    Another unusual feature of the vehicle 510 is that although the prime mover has a
    tandem rear axle group to provide the drive, the front semi-trailer 514 is supported at
30  its rear by only a single axle set.      This is an important feature which contributes
    substantially to the high speed dynamic stability and manoeuvrability of the vehicle.
    It makes possible a particularly short coupling rear overhang where the drawbar 542

                                                 12
     is coupled to the front semi-trailer 514. An explanation is provided later in this
     specification with reference to Figures 9 and 10.
     The A-double combination vehicle 610 in Figure 6 is a road transport vehicle
  5  comprising a prime mover 612 to which is attached a front semi-trailer 614 followed
     by a trailer 616. Like the embodiment in Figure 5 it has a length of 20 metres which
     is a length which allows wide access to the road system. But while the vehicle 510
     has a maximum GCM of 60.5 tonnes when operating on approved routes in some
     States in Australia, the vehicle 610 can have a higher maximum GCM of 63.5 tonnes
 10  when operating on those same routes.
     The prime mover 612 and the front semi-trailer 614 are the same as the corresponding
     vehicle units in Figure 5 except that the distance between the quick release fifth wheel
     coupling 632 and the rear axle 626 is increased slightly.
 15
     Like the trailer 516 in Figure 5, the trailer 616 comprises a rear semi-trailer 618 plus a
     dolly 620 which supports the front of the rear semi-trailer 618, and the rear of the rear
     semi-trailer 618 is supported by a single rear axle 634. But the trailer 616 differs
     significantly from the trailer 516 in Figure 5.
20
    The dolly 620 has eight road wheels on two single axles 639 and 641 attached to the
    dolly frame 640 and the two axles 639 and 641 are substantially further apart than the
    corresponding axles in Figure 5, axles 639 and 641 being spaced at 2010 mm
    measured wheel centre to wheel centre. The distance between the single axles 639
25  and 641 is therefore greater than the 2000 mm minimum distance prescribed by
    regulations as sufficient for them to be considered separate single axle sets for the
    purpose of calculating acceptable loads on road pavements to be used by the vehicle.
    The configuration of the dolly 620 also allows for a longer extreme axle measurement
30  (distance from first axle to last axle) for the trailer, leading to better bridge loading
    and improved dynamic stability and manoeuvrability.

                                                 13
     The dolly frame 640 is somewhat longer than the corresponding dolly frame 540 in
     Figure 5 and pivots around a vertical axis 635 relative to the rear semi-trailer 518 by
     means of a quick release fifth wheel coupling. Compared with a ballrace turntable
     the fifth wheel coupling allows more vertical angulation (fore/aft) at that articulation
  5  which is desirable with the more widely spaced axles 639 and 641 to provide for
     appropriate load sharing.
     The dolly frame 640 is attached to the front semi-trailer 614 by a drawbar assembly
     642 attached by a ringfeder coupling 644 at a hitch point 646 on the rear of the front
 10  semi-trailer 614. The drawbar 642 is attached to the dolly frame 640 by a hinge 643
     which permits the drawbar 642 to swing vertically.
     From the above description it will be appreciated that the axles on the trailer 616 are
     positioned in an even more unconventional manner than the corresponding axles in
 15  Figure 5. Not only are there, unusually, two axles at the front of the trailer and only a
     single axle at the rear, but the two axles on the dolly are unusually widely spaced.
     The trailing axle 641 on the dolly 620 is a self-steer axle.             Compared to a
     conventional (non self-steer) axle this provides an advantage at low speed in
20  improving the swept path during turns and helping to reduce tyre scrub. The leading
    axle 639 on the dolly 620 is a conventional axle.            The trailing axle 641 could
    alternatively be a conventional axle if it was desired to avoid the complexity of a self
    steer axle, but there would be an increase in tyre scrubbing and a reduction in the
    swept path performance at low speed turns.
25
    Although the vehicle 610 when restricted to 20 metres overall length can have a gross
    combination mass (GCM) up to about 63.5 tonnes fully laden on approved routes, if
    allowed to exceed 20 metres in length improved bridge loading would allow access to
    more of the road network.
30
    The drawbar of each dolly has a single ringfeder coupling connected at the centre of
    the rear of the front semi-trailer and some distance rearward of the centre of the rear
    axle group. That distance is commonly referred to as the "coupling rear overhang".

                                                14
   For both vehicles 410 and 510, at the commencement of a high-speed turn, the hitch
   point moves laterally in a direction opposite to that of the turn. This causes the dolly
   to initially be steered and turn and move in a direction opposite the intended turn
   direction. A short time later, as part of the normal sequence of events associated with
 5 the turn, the tow coupling point moves in the direction of the turn causing the dolly
   frame to be steered in the desired turn direction. This abrupt change of direction of
   the dolly associated with the initial reverse steer described above is often referred as
   "whip". In some circumstances it can lead to rollover of the rear trailer.
10 For the prior art vehicle 410, the coupling rear overhang (shown as dimension D4 in
   Figure 9) is the horizontal distance between the centre 456 of the tri-axle group 426
   and the hitch point 446. The coupling rear overhang D4 would be in the order of
   2000 to 3000 mm. In contrast, for the vehicle 510 of the preferred embodiment, the
   coupling rear overhang (shown as D5 in Figure 10) is the much smaller horizontal
15 distance between the centre 556 of the single axle 526 and the hitch point 546. While
   acceptable improvements in handling characteristics can be achieved by having D5
   up to 950mm, significant improvements are achieved with D5 no more than 750 mm.
   Even greater improvements are achieved with D5 no more than 650 mm. For the
   vehicle 510, the coupling rear overhang D5 is 600 mm. The coupling rear overhang
20 at the rear of the front semi-trailers of the vehicles 610 and 710 is also 600 mm.
   The A-double combination vehicle 710 shown in Figure 7 shares most of the
   structural characteristics of the vehicles 510 and 610 in Figures 5 and 6 respectively.
   The most significant difference is that the trailer 716 has its axles the "conventional"
25 way around, namely with a single axle 738 on the dolly 720 and a tandem axle set
   734 at the rear of the trailer 718. Computer modelling shows that this configuration
   may not perform as well as the vehicle 510 in Figure 5 because the wheelbases are
   shorter and a GCM of about 60.5 tonnes is not achievable because of the shorter
   extreme axle measurement.
30
   The combination vehicle 810 in Figure 8 is outside the scope of this invention. It has
   the same number of axles as the vehicles in Figures 5, 6 and 7 but they are distributed
   differently.   One of the rear axles on the prime mover 812 has been deleted and

                                              15
   replaced by an additional axle on the dolly 820. Dynamic modelling shows the
   vehicle exhibits shortcomings in traction because it has only a single drive axle set
   824 whereas the embodiments in Figures 5, 6 and 7 have a tandem rear axle group on
   the prime mover.
 5
   While the above description includes the preferred embodiments of the invention, it is
   to be understood that many variations, alterations, modifications and/or additions may
   be introduced into the constructions and arrangements of parts previously described
   without departing from the essential features or the spirit or ambit of the invention.
10
   It will be also understood that where the word "comprise", and variations such as
   "comprises" and "comprising", are used in this specification, unless the context
   requires otherwise such use is intended to imply the inclusion of a stated feature or
   features but is not to be taken as excluding the presence of other feature or features.
15
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
   an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge.

                                                   16
      Claims
      1.      A combination vehicle for road transport of heavy goods, said vehicle
     comprising:
   5      -   a prime mover at the front,
          -   a first semi-trailer comprising a first semi-trailer body adapted to carry goods
              and attached directly to the prime mover so as to be towed behind the prime
              mover, and
          -   a trailer attached to said first semi-trailer so as to be towed behind the first
 10           semi-trailer,
     said trailer comprising:
          -   a second semi-trailer body adapted to carry goods,
          -   a dolly mounted beneath the front of said second semi-trailer body and having
             a dolly frame connected to the second semi-trailer body by a pivoting
 15          connection, and
          -  a drawbar assembly connecting the dolly frame to the rear of said first
             semi-trailer,
     wherein:
          -  the rear of the first semi-trailer is supported by only a first single axle set, and
20        -  said trailer is supported by an arrangement of exactly three axles.
     2.      A combination vehicle according to claim 1 wherein said arrangement of three
     axles comprises one tandem axle set plus a second single axle set.
25   3.      A combination vehicle according to claim 2 wherein said arrangement of three
     axles comprises:
         -   said tandem axle set attached to said dolly frame, and
         -   said second single axle set attached to the rear of said second semi-trailer.
30

                                                 17
      4.      A combination vehicle according to claim 2 wherein said arrangement of three
      axles comprises:
          -   said tandem axle set attached to the rear of said second semi-trailer, and
          -  said second single axle set attached to said dolly frame.
  5
     5.      A combination vehicle according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said
     pivoting connection comprises a quick release fifth wheel coupling.
     6.      A combination vehicle according to claim 1 wherein said arrangement of three
 10  axles comprises:
         -   a pair of single axle sets attached to said dolly frame, and
         -   said second single axle set attached to the rear of said second semi-trailer,
     wherein the single axle sets in said pair are separated sufficiently to be considered
     separate single axle sets for the purposes of calculating acceptable loads on road
 15  pavement to be used by said vehicle.
     7.      A combination vehicle according to claim 6 wherein said pivoting connection
     comprises a ballrace turntable.
20   8.      A combination vehicle according to any one of the previous claims wherein
    the tow coupling overhang at the rear of said first semi-trailer is no more than
    950mm.
    9.       A combination vehicle according to claim 8 wherein the tow coupling
25  overhang at the rear of said first semi-trailer is no more than 750mm.
     10.     A combination vehicle according to claim 9 wherein the tow coupling
    overhang at the rear of said first semi-trailer is no more than 650mm.
30   11.     A combination vehicle according to any one of the previous claims wherein
    the rear of said prime mover has exactly two axle sets.

                                        18
12.     A combination vehicle according to any one of the previous claims and having
a gross combination mass in the range 48 to 65 tonnes.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
