                                           ABSTRACT
A device for monitoring a multi-tank fluid supply arrangement including a manifold and/or
regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a plurality of tanks, the manifold and/or
regulator comprising a switch for determining which of the plurality of tanks acts as a supply
tank for the outlet., the device including a housing containing at least one processor in wired
and/or wireless communication with at least two pressure sensors adapted to be placed in-line
with the flow of fluid from each of the plurality of tanks into the regulator; wherein the at least
one processor is configured to determine, based on data received from the at least two pressure
sensors, information regarding whether the pressure in at least one of the plurality of tanks has
fallen below a predetermined threshold and to generate an indication thereof.

                 2/2
                     208
          207
      206                 209
                         210
205
                              211
20421
                                  215
203
              FIGURE 2

                                                      I
   SYSTEM, METHOD, AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING A FLUID
        SUPPLY ARRANGEMENT INCLUDING AT LEAST ONE TANK
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0001]      The invention relates generally to the monitoring of fluid supply systems and, more
specifically, to a system, method, and apparatus for monitoring one or more multi-tank fluid
supply arrangements and/or one or more fluid supply arrangements comprising at least one tank.
Description of Related Art
[0002]      Fluids, in a liquid phase, gaseous phase, or combination thereof are often stored in
tanks or containers. The fluids may be pressurized or at atmospheric pressure.
[0003]      In some cases, for example, in many commonly used propane tanks, fluids are stored in
such a way that the fluids are in liquid form but evaporate into gaseous form. The evaporation
creates a head pressure in the portion of the tank not occupied by liquid fluid. The fluid is then
let out of the tank in gaseous form through a pressure regulator or valve. However, due to the
multiphase nature of the fluid stored in these tanks, it can be difficult to determine the amount of
fluid remaining in them even if the size of the tanks is known in advance.
[0004]      In order to alleviate this issue, a multi-tank arrangement may be provided in which two
or more tanks may be connected via a manifold or switching regulator. When a certain condition
is met, such as when a certain pressure is reached within one of the tanks or when a user
manually adjusts one or more valves, the manifold or switching regulator will switch from which
tank the fluid is being drawn.
[0005]      However, in such systems, particularly when large numbers of multi-tank arrangements
are in use, it is often difficult for a supplier or user to accurately monitor the amount of fluid in
such multi-tank arrangements.
[0006]      Accordingly, there is a need in the art for improved systems which may allow for more
accurate predictions of when one or more of the tanks in the system requires refilling or
replacement or when the arrangement as a whole is soon to be empty. Further, there is a need in
the art for improved systems for accomplishing this task inexpensively across multiple disparate
locations while minimizing the required hardware changes to existing systems.
[0007]      Additionally, in some applications, particularly where a constant supply of fluid is not
critical, a single tank may be sufficient to fulfill the needs of a given fluid supply system, or, in

                                                   2
some cases, only one tank may be connected to the fluid supply system at a time. Accordingly,
there is also a need in the art for improved systems for more accurate predictions of when a
single tank requires refilling or replacement or is soon to be empty. Further, there is a need in
the art for improved systems for accomplishing this task inexpensively across multiple disparate
locations while minimizing the required hardware changes to existing systems.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]     Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide a system, method, and apparatus
for monitoring one or more multi-tank fluid supply arrangements and for providing an indication
regarding an amount of the fluid remaining in the arrangement.
[0009]     In various aspects, a device may be provided for monitoring an arrangement including
two or more tanks that are filled with both liquid and gaseous phase fluid. The tanks may be
connected to a manifold or switching regulator. This manifold or switching regulator switches
from which tank fluid is drawn. This switching may either be effected manually or be effected
automatically when certain criteria are met, i.e., a pressure in one or more of the tanks falls
below or rises above a threshold.
[0010]     The manifold or switching regulator may be configured to switch from one tank that is
empty or almost empty to another tank when the pressure in the empty or nearly empty tank
crosses a certain threshold, for example, via a mechanical switch inside of the regulator that is
triggered when the pressure in one of the tanks falls below a certain level. This threshold is
crossed because, as fluid leaves the tank, eventually there will be no liquid phase fluid left in the
tank, and only gaseous phase fluid will remain. Once this occurs and as fluid continues to be
drawn from the tank, the pressure inside of the tank will drop.
[0011]     In various aspects of the present disclosure, provided is a device that can detect when a
pressure threshold has been crossed and, therefore, approximate when the manifold or switching
regulator has been switched from one tank to another. The tank that was switched from can now
be considered empty and in need of replacement.           The presently disclosed device then may
provide an indication based on the detection of a pressure threshold having been crossed. The
indication can be used to plan refills and deliveries for the empty tank.
[0012]     In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure, the device may detect a
pressure threshold being crossed in any of the tanks by adding pressure sensors in-line with the
flow of fluid from the tanks into the manifold or switching regulator. When a pressure within

                                                    3
one of the tanks crosses the pressure threshold, the pressure sensor for that tank is triggered and
the device provides an indication.       The pressure sensors could be a variety of sensor types
including, but not limited to, pressure transducers, pressure switches, and devices that provide a
pressure reading over a discrete or continuous pressure range. In one non-limiting embodiment,
in order to reduce costs, the pressure sensor may be a switch that is activated or deactivated when
the pressure of the associated tank falls below a threshold, and which does not otherwise measure
the pressure in the tank.
[0013]     In various aspects, this allows for existing multi-tank arrangements to be monitored
without the need for modifying or replacing the regulator or manifold, which may be expensive,
labor intensive, or otherwise undesirable.
[0014]     Additionally, it is an object of the invention to provide a system, method, and apparatus
for monitoring one or more fluid supply arrangements containing at least one tank and for
providing an indication regarding an amount of the fluid remaining in the arrangement.
[0015]     Additionally, provided is a device that can detect when a pressure threshold has been
crossed in a single tank of a fluid supply arrangement and which may provide an indication
based on the detection of a pressure threshold having been crossed that the tank is or will soon be
in need of replacement. The indication can be used to plan refills and deliveries for the empty
tank.
[0016]     In some non-limiting aspects of the invention, the device may be adapted to conform
with various safety requirements such as, but not limited to, being sealed or being explosion
proof. This can be achieved a number of ways depending on the specific safety requirements
including, but not limited to, gaskets, sealing gels, glues, and appropriate components and
connectors. In various aspects, the device may be powered by batteries, rechargeable batteries,
solar power, wind power, or any combination thereof.
[0017]     The present invention further includes the subject matter of the following numbered
clauses:
[0018]     Clause 1: A device for monitoring a multi-tank fluid supply arrangement comprising a
manifold and/or regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a plurality of tanks, the
manifold and/or regulator comprising a switch for determining which of the plurality of tanks
acts as a supply tank for the outlet by allowing fluid to flow from one or more of the plurality of
tanks to the outlet and preventing fluid from flowing from the remaining plurality of tanks from

                                                   4
flowing to the outlet, the device comprising: (i) a housing containing at least one processor in
wired and/or wireless communication with at least two pressure sensors adapted to be placed in
line with the flow of fluid from each of the plurality of tanks into the regulator; (ii) wherein the
at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data received from the at least two
pressure sensors, information regarding whether the pressure in at least one of the plurality of
tanks has fallen below a predetermined threshold and to generate an indication thereof.
[0019]     Clause 2: The device according to clause 1, wherein the at least one processor is further
configured or programmed to determine a head pressure of at least one of the plurality of tanks,
based on data received from at least one of the at least two pressure sensors.
[0020]     Clause 3: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, wherein the at least
one processor is further configured or programmed to determine whether a tank is attached to the
manifold and/or regulator based on data received from the pressure sensor.
[0021]     Clause 4: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, further comprising at
least one tank sensor in communication with the at least one processor, the at least one processor
being further configured or programmed to generate an indication regarding how many or which
of the plurality of tanks are connected to the manifold and/or regulator based on data received
from the at least one tank sensor.
[0022]     Clause 5: The device according to clause 4, wherein the at least one tank sensor
comprises a tactile sensor, a visual sensor, a magnetic sensor, or any combination thereof.
[0023]     Clause 6: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, further comprising at
least one power source comprising at least one of the following: a battery, a rechargeable battery,
a solar panel, a wind turbine, or any combination thereof, wherein the at least one power source
is arranged to power the device.
[0024]     Clause 7: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, wherein the at least
one processor is further configured or programmed to periodically or continuously generate the
indication that the pressure in one of the plurality of tanks has fallen below a predetermined
threshold until the one of the plurality of tanks is refilled or replaced.
[0025]     Clause 8: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, wherein the indication
comprises at least one of the following: a visual representation on a display device or graphical
user interface, a change in an appearance of a warning light, an audible alarm, an electronically

                                                   5
generated voice, a release of a scented gas, an electronic alert, an electronic signal, or any
combination thereof.
[0026]     Clause 9: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, wherein the at least
one processor is further configured to communicate the indication to a remote system or device
comprising a software application configured to plan or predict supply chain events, capital
expenses, and/or delivery routes to customers based at least partially on the generated indication.
[0027]     Clause 10: The device according to any of the preceding clauses, wherein the
indication further comprises information regarding at least one of the following: whether one or
more of the plurality of tanks is empty or close to empty, which of the plurality of tanks is empty
or close to empty, which of the plurality of tanks is acting as a supply tank, an amount of time
that has passed since one or more of the plurality of tanks has been replaced, a consumption rate,
a consumption rate history, an estimated time remaining before one or more of the plurality of
tanks will need to be replaced, or any combination thereof.
[0028]     Clause 11: A method for monitoring a previously existing multi-tank fluid supply
arrangement comprising a manifold and/or regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a
plurality of tanks, the manifold and/or regulator comprising a switch for determining which of
the plurality of tanks acts as a supply tank for the outlet by allowing fluid to flow from one of the
plurality of tanks to the outlet and preventing fluid from the remaining plurality of tanks from
flowing to the outlet, the method comprising: (i) placing at least two pressure sensors in
communication with the at least one processor in-line with the flow of fluid from each of the
plurality of tanks into the manifold and/or regulator; (ii) determining, using the at least one
processor and based on data received from the at least two pressure sensors, a head pressure of
each of the plurality of tanks; and (iii) generating, based on the determined head pressures, an
indication comprising information regarding whether the pressure in at least one of the plurality
of tanks has fallen below a predetermined threshold.
[0029]     Clause 12: The method according to clause 11, further comprising: communicating,
using the at least one processor, the indication to a remote system or device comprising a
software application configured to plan or predict supply chain events, capital expenses, and/or
delivery routes to customers based at least partially on the generated indication.
[0030]     Clause   13: A system for monitoring a plurality of multi-tank fluid supply
arrangements, each of the multi-tank fluid supply arrangements comprising a manifold and/or

                                                   6
regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a plurality of tanks, the manifold and/or
regulator comprising a switch for determining which of the plurality of tanks acts as a supply
tank for the outlet by allowing fluid to flow from one of the plurality of tanks to the outlet and
preventing fluid from flowing from the remaining plurality of tanks to the outlet, the system
comprising: (i) a plurality of monitoring devices, each monitoring device being arranged to
monitor one of the plurality of multi-tank fluid supply arrangements, each monitoring device
comprising: (i) a housing containing at least one processor in communication with the at least
two pressure sensors adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of fluid from each of the plurality
of tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement into the manifold and/or regulator
thereof; (ii) wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data received
from the at least two pressure sensors, information regarding whether the pressure in at least one
of the plurality of tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement has fallen below a
predetermined threshold; and (iii) generate based on the determined head pressures, an indication
comprising the information regarding whether the pressure in at least one of the plurality of tanks
of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement has fallen below a predetermined threshold
and information regarding which of the plurality of multi-tank fluid supply arrangements to
which the indication pertains.
[0031]     Clause 14: The system according to clause 13, wherein the at least one processor is
further configured or programmed to determine a head pressure of at least one of the plurality of
tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement, based on data received from at least
one of the at least two pressure sensors.
[0032]     Clause 15: The system according to clause 13 or 14, wherein the information regarding
which of the plurality of multi-tank fluid supply arrangements to which the indication comprises
at least one of the following: a tank volume, a tank fill level, a fluid type, a location identifier,
geographic coordinates, a nearest supply location, or any combination thereof.
[0033]     Clause 16: The system according to any of clauses 13-15, wherein the indication is
communicated to a remote system or device comprising a software application configured to
plan or predict supply chain events, capital expenses, and/or delivery routes to customers based
at least partially on the generated indication.

                                                   7
[0034]     Clause 17: The system according to any of clauses 13-16, wherein the indication
comprises a visual representation of a location of the pertinent multi-fluid supply arrangement
displayed on a graphical user interface.
[0035]     Clause 18: A device for monitoring a fluid supply arrangement comprising a manifold
and/or regulator in fluid communication with at least one tank, the device comprising: (i) a
housing containing at least one processor in wired and/or wireless communication with at least
one pressure sensor adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of fluid from the at least one tank
into the manifold and/or regulator; (ii) wherein the at least one processor is configured to
determine, based on data received from the at least one pressure sensor, information regarding
whether the pressure in the tank is above or below a predetermined threshold and to generate an
indication thereof.
[0036]     Clause 19: A device for monitoring a fluid supply arrangement comprising at least one
tank, and a manifold and/or regulator in fluid communication with an outlet of the at least one
tank, the device comprising: (i) a housing containing at least one processor in communication
with at least one pressure sensor adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of fluid from one of
the at least one tank into the manifold and/or regulator thereof; (ii) wherein the at least one
processor is configured to determine, based on data received from the at least one pressure
sensor, information regarding whether the pressure at least one tank of the fluid supply
arrangement has fallen below a predetermined threshold; and (iii) generate, based on data
received from the at least one pressure sensor, an indication comprising the information
regarding whether the pressure in at least one tank of the monitored fluid supply arrangement has
fallen below a predetermined threshold; wherein the at least one processor is further configured
to communicate the indication to a remote system or device comprising a software application
configured to plan or predict supply chain events, capital expenses, and/or delivery routes to
customers based at least partially on the generated indication; and wherein the indication further
comprises information regarding at least one of the following: whether one of the at least one
tank is empty or close to empty, which of the at least one tank is empty or close to empty, which
of the at least one tank is acting as a supply tank in the monitored fluid supply arrangement, an
amount of time that has passed since one or more of the at least one tank has been replaced, a
consumption rate, a consumption rate history, an estimated time remaining before one or more of
the at least one tank will need to be replaced, or any combination thereof.

                                                  8
[0037]     These and other features and characteristics of the present invention, as well as the
methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination of
parts and economies of manufacture, will become more apparent upon consideration of the
following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings, all
of which form a part of this specification, wherein like reference numerals designate
corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the
drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a
definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and the claims, the singular
form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]     Figure 1 is an exploded view of a monitoring device in accordance with a non-limiting
embodiment of the invention, and also contains a collapsed view of this non-limiting
embodiment in the top right corner.
[0039]     Figure 2 is an assembly view of a monitoring device attached to two tanks in
accordance with a non-limiting embodiment of the invention.
                               DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0040]     For purposes of the description herein, the terms "end", "upper", "lower", "right",
"left", "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral", "longitudinal", and derivatives thereof
shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. However, it is to be
understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations and step sequences,
except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific
devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings, and described in the following
specification, are simply exemplary configurations of the invention. Hence, specific dimensions
and other physical characteristics related to the configurations disclosed herein are not to be
considered as limiting.
[0041]     As used herein, the terms "communication" and "communicate" refer to the receipt or
transfer of one or more signals, messages, commands, or other type of data. For one unit or
component to be in communication with another unit or component means that the one unit or
component is able to directly or indirectly receive data from and/or transmit data to the other unit

                                                  9
or component. This can refer to a direct or indirect connection that may be wired and/or wireless
in nature. Additionally, two units or components may be in communication with each other even
though the data transmitted may be modified, processed, and/or routed between the first and
second unit or component. For example, a first unit may be in communication with a second unit
even though the first unit passively receives data, and does not actively transmit data to the
second unit. As another example, a first unit may be in communication with a second unit if one
or more intermediary units processes data from one unit and transmits processed data to the
second unit. It will be appreciated that numerous other arrangements are possible.
[0042]     As used herein, the term indication refers to any conveyance of information which can
be perceived by the human senses and/or by a processor or other electronic device in
communication with the system whether or not such conveyance of information may also be
perceived by a human being. In non-limiting, illustrative examples, an indication may be a signal
that can be perceived by sight, hearing, touch, smell, and/or taste. In further non-limiting
examples, an indication may be an electronic signal sent to a processor or other electronic device
in communication with the system. An indication may also be, for example, data displayed on an
interface such as a graphical user interface. In non-limiting embodiments, an electronic device
may be configured to perform an action in response to or otherwise based on the receipt of the
indication (or lack thereof), or based on information conveyed as part of the indication.
[0043]     Figure 1: Figure 1 is an exploded view of a device in accordance with non-limiting
embodiment of the invention, and also contains a collapsed view of this exemplary device in the
top right corner. The device has a housing 103 with lid 108 and sealing gasket 107. The housing
 103, lid 108, and sealing gasket 107 are held together by attachment hardware 109. Inside of the
housing are circuit board 104 with components 106, battery holder 105, and communication
equipment 111.      The battery holder 105 is attached to the circuit board 104 via attachment
hardware 110. Entering the housing is an antenna 101 which connects to the communication
equipment 111.     Also entering the housing are connectors 112 which electrically connect to
pressure sensors that are not shown in this drawing.        There are also connectors 102 which
connect to connectors 112 through the wall of housing 103. Connectors 102 are then electrically
connected to circuit board 104.

                                                 10
[0044]    Figure 2: Figure 2 is an assembly view of the device of Figure 1 attached to two tanks
in accordance with a non-limiting embodiment of the invention. The assembly has device 207,
which is the same as the device shown in Figure 1. There are two tanks 201 and 216 which each
have valves 202 and 215, respectively. Coming from valves 202 and 215 are pigtail connectors
203 and 214.      Pigtail connectors 203 and 214 each connect into T-fittings 204 and 213.
Connected to T fittings 204 and 213 are pressure sensors 205 and 211. Pressure sensors 205 and
211 are connected to device 207 by connectors 206 and 209. Device 207 has an antenna 208.
Also connected to T-fittings 204 and 213 are additional pigtail connectors which connect to
switching regulator or manifold 210. Switching regulator or manifold 210 has an outlet 212.
[0045]    In a non-limiting example, the pressure threshold, which triggers a response from the
monitoring device, may be set somewhere between the normal operating pressure of a cylinder
when it has liquid and the highest pressure at which a regulator would initiate a switch over. For
example, if the normal operating pressure of a cylinder is 1,300kPa, and the highest pressure at
which any regulator would switch is 800kPa, the system can be set to trigger at 750kPa or in a
similar range, such that, a reading is obtained only when the regulator has actually switched. In
another non-limiting example, the device may trigger whenever the pressure in the cylinder
drops below 103kPa and turn off when the pressure rises above 206kPa. Of course, depending on
the application, various pressure thresholds can be used in accordance with the principles of the
present invention.
[0046]    In single tank arrangements, the non-limiting embodiments of the present invention
may operate similarly to the above, although, in such embodiments, only one pressure sensor is
needed and there is no need to account for switching between tanks.             In such cases, the
monitoring device may communicate an indication upon determining that the head pressure in a
single tank has fallen below a threshold.
[0047]    Although the invention has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based
on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be
understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the invention is not limited to the
disclosed embodiments, but, on the contrary, is intended to cover modifications and equivalent
arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, it is to be
understood that the present invention contemplates that, to the extent possible, one or more

                                       II
features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other
embodiment.

                                                   12
CLAIMS
                 1.     A device for monitoring a multi-tank fluid supply arrangement comprising
a manifold and/or regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a plurality of tanks, the
manifold and/or regulator comprising a switch for determining which of the plurality of tanks
acts as a supply tank for the outlet by allowing fluid to flow from one or more of the plurality of
tanks to the outlet and preventing fluid from flowing from the remaining plurality of tanks from
flowing to the outlet, the device comprising:
                 a housing containing        at least one    processor in wired    and/or   wireless
communication with at least two pressure sensors adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of
fluid from each of the plurality of tanks into the regulator;
                wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data
received from the at least two pressure sensors, information regarding whether the pressure in at
least one of the plurality of tanks has fallen below a predetermined threshold and to generate an
indication thereof.
                2.      The device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is
further configured or programmed to periodically or continuously generate the indication that the
pressure in one of the plurality of tanks has fallen below a predetermined threshold until the one
of the plurality of tanks is refilled or replaced;
                wherein the indication comprises at least one of the following: a visual
representation on a display device or graphical user interface, a change in an appearance of a
warning light, an audible alarm, an electronically generated voice, a release of a scented gas, an
electronic alert, an electronic signal, or any combination thereof.
                 3.     The device according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least
one processor is further configured to communicate the indication to a remote system or device
comprising a software application configured to plan or predict supply chain events, capital
expenses, and/or delivery routes to customers based at least partially on the generated indication;
                wherein the indication further comprises information regarding at least one of the
following: whether one or more of the plurality of tanks is empty or close to empty, which of the
plurality of tanks is empty or close to empty, which of the plurality of tanks is acting as a supply
tank, an amount of time that has passed since one or more of the plurality of tanks has been

                                                   13
replaced, a consumption rate, a consumption rate history, an estimated time remaining before one
or more of the plurality of tanks will need to be replaced, or any combination thereof.
                4.       A system for monitoring        a plurality of multi-tank     fluid supply
arrangements, each of the multi-tank fluid supply arrangements comprising a manifold and/or
regulator in fluid communication with an outlet and a plurality of tanks, the manifold and/or
regulator comprising a switch for determining which of the plurality of tanks acts as a supply
tank for the outlet by allowing fluid to flow from one of the plurality of tanks to the outlet and
preventing fluid from flowing from the remaining plurality of tanks to the outlet, the system
comprising:                      a plurality of monitoring devices, each monitoring device being
arranged to monitor one of the plurality of multi-tank fluid supply arrangements, each
monitoring device comprising:
                a housing containing at least one processor in communication with the at least two
pressure sensors adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of fluid from each of the plurality of
tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement into the manifold and/or regulator
thereof;
                wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data
received from the at least two pressure sensors., information regarding whether the pressure in at
least one of the plurality of tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement has fallen
below a predetermined threshold; and
                generate, based on data received from the at least two pressure sensors, an
indication comprising the information regarding whether the pressure in at least one of the
plurality of tanks of the respective multi-tank fluid supply arrangement has fallen below a
predetermined threshold and information regarding which of the plurality of multi-tank fluid
supply arrangements to which the indication pertains.
                5.      A device for monitoring a fluid supply arrangement comprising at least
one tank, and a manifold and/or regulator in fluid communication with an outlet of the at least
one tank, the device comprising:
                a housing containing at least one processor in communication with at least one
pressure sensor adapted to be placed in-line with the flow of fluid from one of the at least one
tank into the manifold and/or regulator thereof;

                                                 14
                wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data
received from the at least one pressure sensor, information regarding whether the pressure at
least one tank of the fluid supply arrangement has fallen below a predetermined threshold; and
                generate, based on data received from the at least one pressure sensor, an
indication comprising the information regarding whether the pressure in at least one tank of the
monitored fluid supply arrangement has fallen below a predetermined threshold;
                wherein the at least one processor is further configured to communicate the
indication to a remote system or device comprising a software application configured to plan or
predict supply chain events, capital expenses, and/or delivery routes to customers based at least
partially on the generated indication; and
                wherein the indication further comprises information regarding at least one of the
following: whether one of the at least one tank is empty or close to empty, which of the at least
one tank is empty or close to empty, which of the at least one tank is acting as a supply tank in
the monitored fluid supply arrangement, an amount of time that has passed since one or more of
the at least one tank has been replaced, a consumption rate, a consumption rate history, an
estimated time remaining before one or more of the at least one tank will need to be replaced, or
any combination thereof.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     2/2

