                                                Abstract
                    Improved dock bumper and method of replacement
 5
           A dock bumper is provided.      The dock bumper (10) comprises a housing holding a
   plurality of rollers (100) arranged in an array. The plurality of rollers are arranged to absorb
   impact from a reversing vehicle. Upon impact, outer surfaces (110) of the rollers (100) are
   arranged to rotate relative to the frame (20).    Consequently, scrubbing between the vehicle
10 and dock bumper (10) is reduced as are excess forces acting on fixings between the frame
   (20) and wall. Also, a surface area at each contact location is increased as a cushioning effect
   is provided by rotation of the roller, thereby prolonging the operation life of the rollers.
   Furthermore, in one form, the dock bumper (10) is modularised so that only worn or damaged
   rollers (100) need be replaced at one time.
15
                                               [Figure 1]

WO 2014/174320                           PCT/GB2014/051308
                            1/7
               110
                                          20
                       1001              24
                   100
                            FIG. 1
                    10
                                      20
                   24
                                   22
                            FIG. 2

  WO 2014/174320                                                               PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                     1
                    Improved dock bumper and method of replacement
           The present invention relates to an improved dock bumper and method of replacing a
    worn dock bumper, and in particular, although not exclusively to an improved dock bumper for
 5  protecting loading bays from being damaged by reversing vehicles.
           Dock bumpers or dock buffers are known. The dock bumper is installed on a loading
    bay and acts to protect the loading bay from damage when vehicles reverse up to the loading
    bay to load or unload contents from the vehicles. In the simplest form, it is known to form the
10  dock bumper from a solid piece of resilient material.      Here, rectangular, L-shaped, or other
    shaped blocks of typically composite reinforced rubber are bolted on the walls of the loading
    bay. Reversing vehicles will typically reverse up to and abut the dock bumper. The resilient
    nature of the rubber block allows the dock bumper to absorb some of the impact energy and
    therefore protect the loading bay from damage. Although after a number of impacts, the dock
15  bumper becomes worn or damaged, the dock bumper can be simply replaced, saving having
    to make more serious and costly repairs to the loading bay.          The dock bumpers can be
    produced in a variety of sizes, particularly height, to suit the application, and loading bay
    engineers are used to specifying the particulars.
20         More recently, the increased use of airbrakes on heavy goods vehicles has led to an
    increased wear / damage rate to the dock bumpers. This is because, during loading and
    unloading and as the airbrakes are turned on and off, the vehicles are caused to rise and
    lower. When the vehicles are pressed up against the dock bumper, the raising and lowering
    causes a frictional wear as the vehicle rubs against the dock bumper. Typically, the damage is
25  increased because of the high frictional nature of resilient materials such as rubber. That is,
    the high frictional coefficient of the rubber causes the rubber to grip the vehicle as it attempts
    to move causing a tearing or ripping of the dock bumper at the point of impact. It is known to
    face the dock bumper with polyethylene to reduce the coefficient of friction between the vehicle
    and bumper in an attempt to allow the vehicle to slide against the dock bumper more readily.
30  However, this is not always achievable because of the large forces involved. Furthermore,
    because particular loading bays are often accessed by similar vehicles, the dock bumpers are
    often impacted in a similar position. This repetitive impact can cause uneven wear and often,
    although the dock bumper is only damaged or worn in one part, the whole bumper requires
    replacement.     Also, the repetitive impact can cause impressions in the surface of the dock
35  bumperwhich will act to prevent the vehicle from sliding relative to the dock bumper.
           More drastically, the up and down movement of the vehicle can be severe enough to rip
    the dock bumper from the wall of the loading bay. Particularly in cases where there is any
    prevention of movement between the vehicle and dock bumper.                To improve the dock

   WO 2014/174320                                                              PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                        2
     bumper's resistance to damage, it has been known to mount the dock bumper on a sliding
     frame. For instance, the rubber block is mounted on a nylon plate which slides within a frame.
     However, this does not prevent uneven wear and the whole dock bumper still requires
     replacement even though only a small portion of the barrier requires replacement.
 5   Furthermore, although the dock bumper may be able to slide upwards from a rest position
     upon first impact and release of the airbrakes, such dock bumpers are not able to cope as well
     with downwards initial movement, and the problems associated with a static dock bumper are
     therefore still present.
10           It is an object of the present invention to attempt to overcome at least one of the above
     or other disadvantages. It is a further aim to provide a dock bumper that moves freely relative
     to the loading bay wall to which it is installed in at least two opposed directions. It is a further
     aim to provide an improved dock bumper that provides an improved replacement method so
     that portions of the dock bumper that have not been damaged can be reused. It is a yet
15   further aim to provide a dock bumper that provides a visual impact to act as guidance for
     reversing vehicle operators.        A further aim is to provide a dock bumper that can be
     manufactured easily in a number of sizes without necessarily having to use bespoke moulds or
     parts for each size. Yet a further aim is to provide a dock bumper that can be efficiently
     assembled and disassembled.
20
            According to the present invention there is provided a dock bumper as set forth in the
     appended claims. Other features of the invention will be apparent from the dependent claims,
     and the description which follows.
25           In the exemplary embodiments, a dock bumper comprises a housing for connection to a
     dock wall and a plurality of impact elements for absorbing the impact of the reversing vehicle.
     The impact elements are fixed to the housing and arranged in an array. The housing is for
     connection to a wall of the loading bay and is adapted to enable the impact elements to roll
     within the housing.      Each impact element comprises an impact absorbing member and an
30   outer layer at least partly enveloping the impact absorbing member, such as an outer sheath
     arranged about the impact absorbing member. The outer layer or sheath is relatively rigid
     compared to the impact absorbing member. Consequently, when the vehicle raises or lowers
     relative to the loading bay wall, the impact elements roll with the vehicle thereby preventing
     damage caused by relative movement between the vehicle and dock bumper. Furthermore,
35   because the impact elements roll, each specific location of impact has a larger surface area
     than a flat surface. The life of the dock bumper is therefore typically extended. Furthermore,
     when the dock bumper becomes damaged and requires replacement, only the damaged
     impact elements need to be replaced. The remaining impact elements do not need to be
     replaced and therefore costs and environmental impact may be reduced.

   WO 2014/174320                                                             PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                    3
             In the exemplary embodiments, the impact elements are arranged in a planar array.
     That is, the array of impact elements is arranged in a single column or single row with a
     plurality of rows or columns, respectively. This allows the dock roller to occupy a larger area
 5   on a loading bay wall so that the impact of the vehicle can be potentially spread out across a
     greater surface area.
             In the exemplary embodiments, the plurality of impact elements are held within the
     housing by a plurality of fixing members. The fixing members may be fixed directly between
10   each impact element and the housing. However, the fixing members may be indirectly fixed
     between each impact element and the housing such that the fixing members are used to
     contain the impact elements. Furthermore, each fixing member may further couple the dock
     bumper to the wall of the loading bay or separate fixing members may be provided to connect
     the housing to the wall.
15
             In the exemplary embodiments, the outer sheath may be designed to move towards the
     wall by compression or deformation of the internal impact absorbing member. This allows the
     compression forces to be absorbed by the dock bumper rather than directly through the wall.
20           In one exemplary embodiment, the reaction force on impact may be absorbed by the
     fixing members when the fixing members are used as axles to the impact elements. That is,
     the outer sheath moves towards the fixing member by compression or deformation of the
     impact absorbing member.
25           In another exemplary embodiment, the impact elements are freely held within the
     housing. When the impact elements are freely held the impact elements are allowed to roll.
     the energy of an impact in this instance is absorbed by one part of the outer sheath moving
     towards another part of the sheath wherein the movement is controlled by the impact
     absorbing member such as by compressing or deforming.
30
             In the exemplary embodiments, each impact element includes an impact absorbing
     member that is arranged to absorb the impact. The impact absorbing member is suitably
     shown as a resilient member such as a rubber or composite rubber member. The impact
     absorbing member absorbs the impact of any collision by deforming or compressing to allow
35   an outer surface of the impact element that faces the impact to move relative to the loading
     bay wall.
             Although the impact absorbing member may be sufficient on its own, the exemplary
     embodiments are provided where each impact element includes an outer sheath to provide the

   WO 2014/174320                                                               PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                      4
     outer surface of the dock bumper. The outer sheath is selected to have a different material
     characteristic than the impact absorbing member. That is, the outer sheath is selected in
     some embodiments to have a lower coefficient of friction than the impact absorbing member,
     particularly where the impact absorbing member, which is selected for its resilient properties,
 5   has a high coefficient of friction. This reduces the possibility of friction between the vehicle
     and dock bumper from generating destructive forces. Additionally or alternatively, the outer
     sheath may be selected to have a higher rigidity that the impact absorbing member. Here, the
     outer sheath provides resistance to deformation which could otherwise act to prevent rolling of
     the impact element. For instance, if the surface impacted by the collision squashed to form a
10   substantially flattened area, the impact element would be less likely to roll as the vehicle
     moved. However, in some exemplary embodiments, a degree of resiliency in the outer sheath
     may be beneficial to aid the energy absorption.          Furthermore, the outer sheath may be
     selected to provide an aesthetic surface finish, for instance a particular colour, to provide a
     visual aid to the reversing vehicle.
15
              In some exemplary embodiments, each impact element is a roller and the dock bumper
     therefore comprises a plurality of rollers. Each roller is sized suitably in diameter and width to
     suit the demands of the application. Typically, the rollers are elongate and have a width of
     approximately 300% greater than diameter. However, the width may be at least 200% or at
20   least 250% greater than the diameter or the width may be greater than 350% or 400% greater
     than the diameter. In these exemplary embodiments, each roller is shown as being a common
     size, however, rollers of different sizes are envisaged, wherein the rotational axis of the rollers
     are set back so the diameters of each roller lie on a common plane.
25            In one exemplary embodiment, the impact absorbing member absorbs the impact of any
     collision by allowing an outer surface of the roller that faces the impact to move relative to the
     rotational fixing between the roller and loading bay wall. Typically, the impact absorbing
     member is formed along the length of the rollers rather than being concentrated around the
     rotational fixing. Here, suitably the impact absorbing member is a cylindrical shape.
30
              In one exemplary embodiment , the outer surface of each roller is arranged to rotate
     relative to the wall of the loading bay. That is, if the dock bumper is repeatedly impacted at
     one height, the surface of the dock bumper absorbing the impact and therefore prone to
     damage has been rotated so that a second impact at the same height, impacts a different area
35   of the surface of the dock bumper. The life of the dock bumper is therefore typically extended.
     Where the roller is formed of two or more materials, the outer material may rotate relative to
     the inner material. However, it is preferable if the rollers are formed to act as one piece. That
     is, in the exemplary embodiments, the layers of each roller are fixed fast to each other so as to
     rotate with one another. In the exemplary embodiments, an axle component is provided which

   WO 2014/174320                                                                PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                       5
     rotates relative to the frame. For instance, it is envisaged that the axle component may be
     mounted at either end to the frame so as to be able to rotate about its axis. In the exemplary
     embodiments the rollers are arranged so as to maintain a substantially straight rotational axis
     even during impact.       Whist the material selection may be sufficient to allow the impact
 5   absorbing member to comprise the axle component, in the exemplary embodiments, each
     roller is shown as having a central axle comprising the axle component. The central axle is
     selected and sized so as to be substantially stiff. For instance, the central axle is shown in
     some of the exemplary embodiments as being a metal rod such as a steel rod. The rotational
     axis of each of the plurality of rollers may be spaced in a direction perpendicular to the
10   rotational axis. Here, in one exemplary embodiment, the impact absorbing member is fixed fast
     to the central axle, for instance through frictional adhesion or other fixing method. The central
     axle being attached to the frame at each end in a rotational manner. Alternatively, the impact
     absorbing member may be arranged to rotate about the central axle, which is attached fast to
     the frame. Here, an axle sheath may be provided to rotate about the fixed central axle, where
15   the axle sheath is secured fast to the impact absorbing member.                 In the exemplary
     embodiments, the outer sheath is formed about the impact absorbing member and forms the
     outer surface of the roller that contacts the vehicle. During impact, the outer sheath moves
     radially relative to the central axle by compression of the impact absorbing member. That is,
     the outer sheath moves towards the central axle. As the vehicle lifts or lowers, the roller is
20   caused to rotate, thereby moving with the vehicle and preventing the vehicle from scrubbing
     against the dock bumper.
             In the exemplary embodiments, each impact element, for instance the rollers may be
     fixed directly to the wall of the loading bay. However, it is preferable to supply the dock
25   bumper as a ready to install device. Consequently, in the exemplary embodiments, a frame is
     provided. Suitably the frame is substantially U-shaped in cross section so as to provide two
     opposed side walls that extend away from a mounting plate and between which the rollers may
     be installed. The frame is adapted to be fixed to the wall of the loading bay in any known and
     suitable manner, for instance by bolting the mounting plate to the wall.
30
             In one exemplary embodiment, the frame includes rotational fixing points for attaching
     each roller to. The rotational fixing points may be arranged so that the rollers are spaced
     approximately 110% of the diameter of the rollers. However, the rollers may be spaced more
     than 115% or more than 120% of the diameter of the rollers or the rotational fixing points may
35   be spaced at more than 100% or more than 105% of the diameter of the rollers. The rollers
     are not arranged to touch as they would counter rotate, however, the rollers may be geared
     together so that rotation of one rotates the others. In the exemplary embodiments however, it
     is preferable for each roller to rotate independent to the other rollers.

   WO 2014/174320                                                               PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                        6
             In one exemplary embodiment , each roller rotates relative to the frame.              In the
     exemplary embodiments including the central axle, the central axle protrudes through
     apertures in the frame.      Here, the central axle may rotate within the apertures.        In some
     exemplary embodiments, the rotation between the central axle and frame may be enhanced by
 5   the provision of a low coefficient insert such as a nylon insert. Although bearings are possible,
     they are not thought necessary in all but the highest impact force applications. In other
     exemplary embodiments, the central axle is fixed fast to the frame and the rollers rotate about
     the central axle. Again, although bearings are possible, for instance a nylon sheath or sheath
     of other low-coefficient of friction material, they are not thought necessary in all but the highest
10   impact force applications.
             In a first embodiment, each roller comprises an impact absorbing member and an outer
     sheath, wherein the outer sheath has a different material characteristic to the impact absorbing
     member and the outer sheath is designed to move towards a rotational axis of the roller by
15   compression of the impact absorbing member.
             In the first embodiment, the outer sheath may be arranged to have a lower coefficient of
     friction than the impact absorbing member. The outer sheath may be arranged to have a
     higher resistance to deformation than the impact absorbing member.
20
             In the first embodiment, the dock bumper may include a frame wherein each roller may
     be assembled to the frame in a rotational manner. Each roller may include an axle component
     that is assembled to the frame, wherein the axle component is arranged to allow the respective
     roller to rotate. The axle component may be selected to be stiff enough so as not to bend
25   upon impact. The axle component may include a central axle, wherein the central axle is
     supported by the frame in a rotational manner and the respective roller is attached fast to the
     central axle. The axle component may include a central axle that is secured fast to the frame,
     and the respective roller is arranged to rotate about the central axle. The axle component may
     include an axle sheath, wherein the axle sheath is arranged to rotate about the central axle
30   and the respective roller is secured fast to the axle sheath.
             According to the exemplary embodiments, a method of protecting a loading bay from
     damage may be provided, the method comprising securing a dock bumper of the exemplary
     embodiments to a wall of a loading bay to be protected, causing a vehicle to abut an impact
35   element of the dock bumper, wherein said abutment causes an outer surface of said impact
     element to move towards said wall to absorb a portion of the force generated by the impact.
     The method may further comprise replacing at least one of the impact elements after said
     impact element has become damaged.

  WO 2014/174320                                                               PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                       7
           According to a further exemplary embodiment, a method of assembling a first and
    second dock bumper is provided, wherein each dock bumper is in accordance with the
    exemplary embodiments. The first dock bumper may have a first height and the second dock
    bumper may have a second, different height. The method may comprise using a first frame to
 5  secure a plurality of first type of impact elements to assemble the first dock bumper and using
    a second frame to secure a plurality of first type of impact elements to assemble the second
    dock bumper.
            In a second exemplary embodiment, each impact element is provided as a roller and the
10  dock bumper therefore comprises a plurality of rollers. Each roller is sized suitably in diameter
    and width to suit the demands of the application. Typically, the rollers are elongate and have a
    width of approximately 300% greater than diameter. However, the width may be at least 200%
    or at least 250% greater than the diameter or the width may be greater than 350% or 400%
    greater than the diameter. In the second aspect, each roller is shown as being a common
15  size, however, rollers of different sizes are envisaged. An axle may or may not be provided.
    When an axle is not provided, the impact members may be freely held so that depression of
    the impact barrier may also occur as well as rolling of the impact barrier. The rollers may be
    rotatably fixed. For instance, an axle may be provided, as in the first aspect. When an axle is
    provided, a rotational axis of the rollers is defined by the axle. The rotational axis of the rollers
20  may be set back so the diameters of each roller lie on a common plane. The rotational axis of
    the plurality of rollers may be spaced in a direction perpendicular to the rotational axis. The
    axle may be fixed within the housing or outside of the housing. Alternatively, a combination of
    fixtures within and outside the housing may be used.
25          In a third exemplary embodiment, the impact elements may be balls.                      This
    advantageously provides a higher density of impact elements per unit area. This helps to
    better distribute the impact from multiple surfaces of the vehicle. This also helps reduce the
    wear on each ball because the impact force can be more evenly distributed across the dock
    bumper. Advantageously, the maintenance requirement of the dock bumper may be reduced.
30  The balls may be provided to be freely held so that the roll direction of each ball is independent
    and the roll direction can match the movement from the point of impact. Each ball may be
    sized differently depending on its location on the dock bumper. For instance, the balls on the
    outside may be softer than the inside or the balls on the inside may be softer than the outside.
    The size difference between the balls may also vary to provide a varying degree of cushioning
35  and contact heights.
            In the second and third exemplary embodiments, the outer sheath may be arranged to
    also move away from the wall by compression of the impact absorbing member.                     This
    movement is in addition to the compression of the impact absorbing members towards the wall

   WO 2014/174320                                                              PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                    8
     during impact. This allows the compression force to be more greatly spread across the impact
     element which helps to improve the cushioning of the impact and avoid damage to the vehicle
     and the dock bumper. When the impact elements are freely held, the movement away from
     the wall may vary depending on the direction of impact. For instance, if the vehicle impacts in
 5   a downwardly inclined direction, the compression through the back of the housing may also
     occur in a downward location. However, on a lateral or side impact, the compression may
     occur in a different location.   This is advantageous over a rotatably fixed impact element
     because the compression forces can be distributed through different parts of the dock bumper
     depending on the direction of impact. This helps to increase the life of the dock bumper.
10
             In the second and third exemplary embodiments, the housing may be comprised of an
     outer housing and an inner housing. The housing may be arranged in a coupled position such
     that the outer and inner housings are coupled together by the plurality of fixing members.
     These fixing members may further be used for connection of the dock bumper to the wall. An
15   outer housing is advantageous because multiple impact elements can be removed
     simultaneously. This helps to reduce downtime because the time taken to service the dock
     bumper and replace all impact elements is reduced. By coupling the housing together, the
     coupling force across the impact elements may be more evenly distributed. This allows the
     height of the impact elements to be consistent and controlled. The fixing members may be
20   concealed by the outer housing. For instance, when inner housing which is for connection to
     the wall may include separate fixings so that the additional function of coupling the outer and
     inner housings is separated. For instance, clips may be used to attach the outer housing to
     the inner housing. These clips may be integral to the inner or outer housings or may be
     provided separately.
25
             In the second and third exemplary embodiments, the housing may comprise a plurality
     of pockets when arranged in the coupled position. Each pocket may be capable of at least
     partially containing each impact element.      Furthermore, each pocket is formed from an
     opening arranged in the outer housing and a recess arranged in the inner housing, wherein in
30   the coupled position, each impact element is partially raised through each opening and each
     recess accommodates each impact element when each impact element deforms on impact.
     Furthermore, the shape of each recess corresponds to the external shape of the impact
     element contained therein. This advantageously helps to improve the distribution of forces on
     impact because the compression of the impact element is spread over a greater area. Each
35   pocket may be provided with a biasing member to reset the impact element to a desired
     position after impact. For instance, a spring may be installed in the housing, preferably the
     inner housing.

   WO 2014/174320                                                            PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                      9
            In the exemplary embodiments, multiple dock bumpers may be stacked upon or next to
     each other to change the size of the dock bumper.           Advantageously, in the exemplary
     embodiments including a frame, it is only the frame that needs to be enlarged to provide dock
     bumpers of different height. That is, the impact elements are a common product between all
 5   heights of the same width dock bumper.
            In the exemplary embodiments, the dock bumper may be arranged                      in a
     multidimensional array whereby there are a plurality of rows and columns. Preferably, the
     entire multidimensional array contains impact elements. However, the multidimensional array
10   may have vacant cells within the array so that the multidimensional array is not square or
     rectangular.
            For a better understanding of the invention, and to show how embodiments of the same
     may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the
15   accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
            Figures 1 and 2 are perspective views of a front and back respectively of a dock bumper
     in accordance with a first exemplary embodiment;
20          Figure 3 is a front, side and top isometric views of the dock bumper of the first
     exemplary embodiment;
            Figure 4 is a cross sectional view through A-A of Figure 3;
25          Figure 5 is a perspective front view of a dock bumper according to a second
     embodiment;
            Figure 6 is a perspective front view of a dock bumper according to a third embodiment;
30          Figure 7 is a perspective view of a front of a dock bumper according to a fourth
     embodiment;
            Figure 8 is an exploded perspective view of the dock bumper according to the fourth
     embodiment;
35
            Figure 9 is a perspective view of a front of a dock bumper according to a fifth
     embodiment; and

   WO 2014/174320                                                                PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                      10
            Figure 10 is an exploded perspective view of the dock bumper according to the fifth
     embodiment.
            Referring to Figure 1, a dock bumper 10 is provided. The dock bumper 10 comprises a
 5   frame 20 supporting a plurality of rollers 100.     The plurality of rollers 100 are arranged to
     absorb impact from a reversing vehicle. Upon impact and subsequent raising or lowering of
     the vehicle, outer surfaces 110 of the rollers 100 are arranged to rotate relative to the frame
     20. Consequently, scrubbing between the vehicle and dock bumper is reduced as are excess
     forces acting on fixings between the frame 20 and wall. Also, a surface area at each contact
10   location is increased as a fresh area is provided by rotation of the roller, thereby prolonging the
     operational life of the rollers. Furthermore, the dock bumper is modularised so that only worn
     or damaged rollers need be replaced at one time.
            Referring to Figures 1 to 3, the frame has a generally u-shaped cross section. The
15   frame is shown as a bent plate forming a base plate 22, and two opposed sides 24, 26.
     However, other forming and constructional methods are applicable. The opposed sides 24, 26
     include fixings for receiving the rollers 100. Referring to Figure 4, the fixings are apertures
     through the opposed sides 24, 26. The fixings are spaced to arrange the rollers at appropriate
     spacing along the height of the dock bumper.
20
            Referring to Figure 4, each roller 100 includes an impact absorbing member 110 and an
     outer sheath 120. The impact absorbing member 110 and outer sheath 120 are fixed together
     so as to rotate as one piece.       The parts may be fixed together via a variety of methods.
     However, a compression fit where the outer sheath is made undersized as opposed to the
25   uncompressed size of the impact absorbing member so that the impact absorbing member is
     compressed when the sheath is fitted thereby creating a frictional force to lock the two parts
     together has been found to be particularly suitable. The impact absorbing member 110 is an
     elongate cylinder formed from a material having a high resiliency to absorb an impact force.
     For instance, a rubber, polymer passed member having elastic properties or Ethylene
30   Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM).            The outer sheath provides protection to the impact
     absorbing member.       The outer sheath is selected to have one or more different material
     characteristics to the impact absorbing layer. For instance, the outer sheath 120 that provides
     the outer surface of the dock bumper that contacts the vehicle may be selected to have a
     distinctive colouring for visual recognition, or to have a lower coefficient of friction to reduce
35   any rubbing between the vehicle and dock bumper. The outer sheath may also be selected
     from a material having a high strength compared to the impact absorbing member so as to
     maintain its shape during impact.

  WO 2014/174320                                                                PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                      11
            Referring to Figure 4, the rollers 100 include a central axle 130 that is arranged to rotate
    relative to the frame 20. The central axle 130 forms a pin and extends through the sides of the
    frame and is secured by the fixings on distal ends. A fixing such as a nut 134 secures one end
    of the central axle and pin head the other. Washers 136 are placed between the nut and pin
 5  head and respective sides of the frame 20. The central axle may be arranged to rotate relative
    to the frame. That is, the central axle may rotate in the apertures. However, in Figure 4, the
    central axle is shown as being fixed fast to the frame. Here, an axle sheath 132 is provided
    that rotates about the central axle.       The axle sheath is secured to the impact absorbing
    member 110. Together, the central axle 130 and axle sheath 132 form an axle component.
10  The central axle provides a rigid core to the roller such that the rotational axis of the roller
    remains substantially straight during impact. As shown in Figure 4, it is preferable if the axle
    sheath also extends through the frame so as to give the central axle greater strength.
    Consequently, the outer sheath moves relative to the central axle by deformation of the impact
    absorbing member.        It is this movement and deformation or compression of the impact
15  absorbing member that generates the impact absorption of the dock bumper.
            The impact absorbing member is fixed fast to the central axle by any suitable method
    but again, a particularly suitable method has been found to be a compression fit formed by
    making the axle sheath oversized as compared to a bore in the impact absorbing member
20  within which the axle sheath fits. Because the roller acts a single piece, as the vehicle raises
    or lowers relative to the loading bay, the rollers are caused to rotate and prevent unnecessary
    damage or forces from being transferred.
            The dock bumpers can be increased in size simply by enlarging the height of the frame
25  20. Consequently, as can be seen in Figures 5 and 6 larger dock bumpers can be provided by
    simply adding more rollers 100. Although a plurality of rollers is provided, in the exemplary
    emdidemnt three rollers are shown.          In theory, any number of rollers can be added and
    embodiments of five or more rollers or seven or more rollers are envisaged. Because only the
    frame needs to be changed to produce the different height dock bumpers, the manufacturing
30  costs of stock, moulding and tools is reduced.
            Referring to Figures 7 and 8, a dock bumper 10 according to another embodiment is
    provided. The dock bumper 10 shows a plurality of impact elements 100 arranged as rollers
     100. As can be seen, the rollers comprise an outer sheath and an inner impact absorbing
35  member. The rollers 100 are shown as a one-dimensional array in that the longitudinal axes of
    the rollers are arranged perpendicular to each other. This one-dimensional array is a single
    column of rollers 100 and multiple rows. In this example, the rollers 100 have equal sizes so
    that each length of the rollers 100 is the same. The rollers 100 are partially encased by a
    housing 20 in that the top surface of the rollers 100 are exposed and positioned to absorb an

  WO 2014/174320                                                              PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                     12
    impact on contact by a vehicle. The housing 20 wraps around the rollers 100 and provides
    struts that cross the housing and help to separate the rollers 100 when in the rollers 100 are
    positioned on the dock bumper 10. Suitably a front housing and a rear housing is provided.
    The front and rear housings a secured together to encase the elements whilst allowing the
 5  elemnts to protrude from the front face. Fixing members 134 are also shown to couple the
    housing 20. Although not shown, these fixing members 134 can easily be further fixed to a
    wall. As shown in Figure 8, the housing 20 comprises an outer housing 20a and an inner
    housing 20b. The fixing members 134 couple the outer and inner housings 20a,20b such that
    the rollers 100 are freely held in the dock bumper 10. It is possible however, to further provide
10  axles for the rollers 100 so that the rollers 100 are rotatably fixed. When coupled together, the
    housing provides pockets for the rollers 100 to be held within and be partially exposed from.
    These pockets comprise openings 20c in the outer housing 20a and recesses 20d in the inner
    housing 20b. The recesses 20d correspond to the shape of the rollers 100 so that the rollers
     100 can evenly compress into the recess 20d. This helps to spread the compression force
15  and helps to prolong the life of the rollers 100 and of the dock bumper 10 as a whole. The
    recesses 20d are provided integral to the inner housing 20b but may also be provided as a
    separate component which can be retro-fitted into the inner housing 20b.
           Referring to Figures 9 and 10, a dock bumper 10 according to a further embodiment is
20  provided. Here, the impact elements 100 are shown as balls 100. The balls 100 are arranged
    in a multidimensional array in that a plurality of rows and columns and the array is shown as
    completely filled with balls 100. The balls 100 are freely held within the housing 20 so that the
    balls can roll independently in any direction. In the exploded view, the dock bumper 10 shows
    an outer housing 20a and an inner housing 20b, whereby the outer housing comprises
25  openings 20c and the inner housing 20b comprises recesses 20d which together form pockets
    in the housing 20. The inner housing is shown with fins on the rear which helps to reduce the
    material used thus reducing the weight of the dock bumper 10. Although not shown, the dock
    bumper 10 is provided with multiple locations for fastening the outer housing 20a and inner
    housing 20b together. These fasteners or fixing members may be separate to the fixing
30  members used to connect the housing 20 to the wall. This allows the outer housing 20a to be
    easily removed in situ whilst the inner housing 20b remains fixed to the wall. The housing 20
    may be coupled by clips which may be integral to the inner housing 20a or outer housing 20b
    or provided separately.
35         From the foregoing it will be appreciated that there is provided an improved dock
    bumper that is able to accommodate upwards or downwards movement of a vehicle at any
    point in the cycle of the movement of the dock bumper. Moreover, the environmental impact of
    the dock barrier is reduced because only damaged parts of the dock bumper need be

                                                  13
replaced. Furthermore, the dock bumper may be made more cost effectively as only the frame
20 needs to be changed to produce different height dock bumpers.
           Although preferred embodiment(s) of the present invention have been shown and
described, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made without
departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the claims.
           The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or
admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or information derived from it) or
known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which
this specification relates.
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

   WO 2014/174320                                                                  PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                       14
            Claims
            1.     A dock bumper comprising:
                   a housing for connection to a dock wall;
 5                 a plurality of impact elements held by the housing and arranged in an array;
            wherein the housing is adapted to allow each impact element to roll within the housing;
            wherein each impact element comprises:
                   an impact absorbing member; and
                   an outer sheath arranged about the impact absorbing member; and
10          wherein the outer sheath is relatively rigid compared to the impact absorbing member.
            2.     The dock bumper as claimed in claim 1, wherein the array is one-dimensional.
            3.     The dock bumper according to any preceding claim, wherein the plurality of
15   impact elements are held within the housing by a plurality of fixing members.
            4.     The dock bumper according to any preceding claim, wherein the outer sheath is
     arranged to move towards the wall by compression of the impact absorbing member.
20          5.     The dock bumper according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the impact elements
     are freely held within the housing.
            6.     The dock bumper according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the impact elements
     are rotatably fixed within the housing.
25
            7.     The dock bumper according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the impact elements
     are rollers.
            8.     The dock bumper according to claim 7, wherein each roller has a rotational axis
30   and the rotational axis of each of the plurality of rollers is spaced in a direction perpendicular to
     the rotational axis.
            9.     The dock bumper according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the impact elements
     are balls.
35
            10.    The dock bumper according to claims 1 to 5, wherein the outer sheath is further
     arranged to move away from the wall by compression of the impact absorbing member.

  WO 2014/174320                                                               PCT/GB2014/051308
                                                    15
            11.   The dock bumper according to claim 3, wherein the housing is comprised of an
    outer housing and an inner housing, wherein the housing is arranged in a coupled position
    such that the outer and inner housings are coupled by the plurality of fixing members.
 5          12.   The dock bumper according to claim 11, wherein the housing comprises a
    plurality of pockets when arranged in the coupled position, wherein each pocket is capable of
    at least partially containing each impact element.
            13.   The dock bumper according to claim 12, wherein each pocket is formed from an
10  opening arranged in the outer housing and a recess arranged in the inner housing, wherein in
    the coupled position, each impact element is partially raised through each opening and each
    recess accommodates each impact element when each impact element deforms on impact.
            14.   The dock bumper according to claim 13, wherein the shape of each recess
15  corresponds to the external shape of the impact element contained therein.
            15.   The dock bumper according to any of claims 8 to 14, wherein the array is
    multidimensional.
20          16.   A method of protecting a loading bay from damage, the method comprising:
                   securing a dock bumper as claimed in any of claims 1 to 15 to a wall of a loading
    bay to be protected;
                  causing a vehicle to abut an impact element of the dock bumper, wherein said
    abutment causes an outer surface of said impact element to move towards said wall to absorb
25  a portion of the force generated by the impact.
            17.      The method of claim 16 wherein the method further comprises replacing at least
    one of the impact elements after said impact element has become damaged.
30          18.   A method of assembling a first and second dock bumper, wherein each dock
    bumper is in accordance with any of claims 1 to 15, the first dock bumper having a first height
    and the second dock bumper may having a second, different height; wherein the method
    comprises using a first frame to secure a plurality of first type of impact elements to assemble
    the first dock bumper and using a second, different frame to secure a plurality of first type of
35  impact elements to assemble the second dock bumper.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
