                                           ABSTRACT
The disclosure provides materials and methods for conferring improved plant traits or
benefits on plants. The materials can include a formulation comprising an exogenous
endophytic bacterial population, which can be disposed on an exterior surface of a seed or
seedling, typically in an amount effective to colonize the plant. The formulations can include
at least one member selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally compatible
carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a
nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient.

              PLANT-ENDOPHYTE COMBINATIONS AND USES THEREFOR
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application No.14/315,804, filed June 26,
   2014,    and   is a    divisional  of AU     2015279600,     which  is  a national   phase   of
 5 PCT/US2015/038110 (WO 2015/200852), each of which are hereby incorporated in their
   entirety by reference.
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
           The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted via
   EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy, created on
 0 June 26, 2015, is named 29254_PCTCRFsequencelisting.txt, and is 22 KB in size.
                                           BACKGROUND
           With limited arable land coupled with rising demand of a steadily increasing human
   population that could reach 9 billion by 2050, food supply is a global challenge making
   production of economically attractive and high quality food, free from unacceptable levels of
 5 agrochemicals, a dire need.
           Traditional plant breeding strategies to enhance plant traits are relatively slow and
   inefficient. For example, breeding plants for increased tolerance to abiotic stress requires
   abiotic stress-tolerant founder lines for crossing with other germplasm to develop new abiotic
   stress-resistant lines. Limited germplasm resources for such founder lines and incompatibility
 0 in crosses between distantly related plant species represent significant problems encountered
   in conventional breeding. Breeding for stress tolerance has often been inadequate given the
   incidence of stresses and the impact that stresses have on crop yields in most environments of
   the world.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25         The present invention is based on the systematic efforts to discover endophytic
   bacterial species that have the potential to greatly improve agricultural productivity. The
   endophytic bacterial strains extensively characterized herein are able to confer onto the host
   plant several key fitness benefits and, as such, offer the possibility of improving yields of
   agricultural crops without the need for time-consuming breeding             efforts or genetic
30 modification.
           In a first aspect, the present invention provides for an agricultural plant or portion
   thereof comprising an exogenous endophytic bacterial population disposed on an exterior
                                                    1

      WO 2015/200852                                                             PCT/US2015/038110
   surface of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to colonize the plant, and further
   comprising a formulation that comprises at least one member selected from the group
   consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a
   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
 5 regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient. The agricultural plant can be a mature plant. In other
   cases, it can be a seedling. In still other cases, it can be a seed of an agricultural plant. In one
   particular embodiment, the agricultural plant is a seed or seedling.
           In one embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population consists essentially of an
   endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95%, at least
 0 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or at least 99.5% identical to a nucleic acid
   sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10.
           In one particular      embodiment, the endophytic bacterium             is a species of
   Agrobacterium, family Rhizobiaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Agrobacterium species
   is identified on the basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular
 5 embodiment, the Agrobacterium species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. In another embodiment, the Agrobacterium species comprises a
   16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. In still another
   embodiment, the Agrobacterium species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to
   SEQ ID NO: 1. In still another embodiment, the Agrobacterium species is the isolate FA13.
 0         In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pantoea, family
   Rhizobiaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea species is identified on the basis of its
   rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea species
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In another
   embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
25 identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In still another embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S
   rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In still another embodiment, the Pantoea
   species is the isolate FF34.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Sphingobium, family
   Rhizobiaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Sphingobium species is identified on the basis
30 of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Sphingobium
   species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In
   another embodiment, the Sphingobium species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at
   least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In still another embodiment, the Sphingobium species
                                                     2

       WO 2015/200852                                                       PCT/US2015/038110
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In still another
   embodiment, the Sphingobium species is the isolate FC42.
            In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pseudomonas,
   family Pseudomonadaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Pseudomonas species is
 5 identified on the basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment,
   the Pseudomonas species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to
   SEQ ID NO: 4. In another embodiment, the Pseudomonas species comprises a 16S rDNA
   sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4. In still another embodiment, the
   Pseudomonas species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 4. In
 0 still another embodiment, the Pseudomonas species is the isolate FB12.
            In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Enterobacter,family
   Enterobacteriaceae.In a particular embodiment, the Enterobacterspecies is identified on the
   basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Enterobacter
   species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In
 5 another embodiment, the Enterobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at
   least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In still another embodiment, the Enterobacterspecies
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In still another
   embodiment, the Enterobacterspecies is the isolate FD17.
            In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Micrococcus, family
 0 Micrococcaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Micrococcus species is identified on the
   basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Micrococcus
   species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In
   another embodiment, the Micrococcus species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at
   least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In still another embodiment, the Micrococcus species
25 comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In still another
   embodiment, the Micrococcus species is the isolate S2.
            In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Bacillus, family
   Bacillaceae. In a particular embodiment, the Bacillus species is identified on the basis of its
   rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Bacillus species
30 comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In another
   embodiment, the Bacillus species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In still another embodiment, the Bacillus species comprises a 16S
   rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In still another embodiment, the Bacillus
   species is the isolate S4.
                                                 3

        WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
             In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pantoea, family
    Enterobacteriaceae.In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea species is identified on the
    basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea
    species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In
 5  another embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least
    99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In still another embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises
    a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In still another embodiment, the
    Pantoeaspecies is the isolate S6.
             In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Acinetobacter,
 0 family Moraxellaceae.In a particular embodiment, the Acinetobacter species is identified on
    the basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the
    Acinetobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ
    ID NO: 9. In another embodiment, the Acinetobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA
    sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 9. In still another embodiment, the
 5  Acinetobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 9. In
    still another embodiment, the Acinetobacter species is the isolate S9.
             In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Paenibacillus,
    family Paenibacillaceae.In a particular embodiment, the Paenibacillusspecies is identified
    on the basis of its rDNA sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the
 0  Paenibacillusspecies comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ
    ID NO: 10. In another embodiment, the Paenibacillus species comprises a 16S rDNA
    sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 10. In still another embodiment, the
    Paenibacillusspecies comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 10. In
    still another embodiment, the Paenibacillusspecies is the isolate S10.
25           In certain cases, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed in an amount
    effective to be detectable within a target tissue of the mature agricultural plant selected from
    a fruit, a seed, a leaf, or a root, or portion thereof.
             In certain embodiments, the seed or seedling comprises at least about 100 CFU, for
    example, at least about 200 CFU, at least about 300 CFU, at least about 500 CFU, at least
30  about 1,000 CFU, at least about 3,000 CFU, at least about 10,000 CFU, at least about 30,000
    CFU, at least about 100,000 CFU, at least about         10 ^6 CFU, or more, of the endophytic
    bacterial population on its exterior surface.
                                                        4

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on an exterior
   surface or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to be detectable in an
   amount of at least about 100 CFU, for example, at least about 200 CFU, at least about 300
   CFU, at least about 500 CFU, at least about 1,000 CFU, at least about 3,000 CFU, at least
 5 about 10,000 CFU, at least about 30,000 CFU, at least about 100,000 CFU or more per gram
   fresh weight of the mature agricultural plant.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface
   or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to increase the biomass of the
   fruit or cob from the resulting plant by at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at
 0 least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10% when compared
   with a reference agricultural plant.
           In still another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the
   surface or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to detectably colonize
   the soil environment surrounding the mature agricultural plant when compared with a
 5 reference agricultural plant.
           In some cases, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed in an amount effective
   to increase root biomass by at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at
   least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10% when compared with a
   reference agricultural plant.
 0         In some embodiments, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface
   or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to increase the rate of seed
   germination when compared with a reference agricultural plant.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface
   or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to detectably induce
25 production of auxin in the seed or seedling.
           In one embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is cultured prior to
   disposition on the seed or seedling. In one embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population
   is cultured in a synthetic or semi-synthetic medium prior to disposition on the seed or
   seedling.
30         In certain cases, the endophytic bacterial population can be modified. In one
   embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is genetically modified. In another
   embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is modified such that it has enhanced
                                                    5

      WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   compatibility with an antimicrobial agent when compared with an unmodified control. The
   antimicrobial agent is an antibacterial agent. Alternatively, the antimicrobial agent can be an
   antifungal agent. In some cases, the modified endophytic bacterial population exhibits at least
   3 fold greater, for example, at least 5 fold greater, at least 10 fold greater, at least 20 fold
 5 greater, at least 30 fold greater or more resistance to the antimicrobial agent when compared
   with an unmodified control. In one embodiment, the antimicrobial agent is glyphosate.
           The seed or seedling of the agricultural plant can be a monocot. For example, it can be
   a corn seed or seedling. Alternatively, it can be a wheat seed or seedling. In other
   embodiments, it can be a barley seed or seedling. In still other cases, it can be a rice seed or
 0 seedling.
           In another embodiment, the seed or seedling is a dicot. For example, it can be a cotton
   seed or seedling, a soy seed or seedling, or a tomato seed or seedling.
           In still another embodiment, the seed or seedling can be derived from a transgenic
   plant. In another embodiment, the seed or seedling can be a hybrid seed or seedling.
 5         In one particular embodiment, the seed is a corn seed, and further comprises at least
   about 10,000 CFU of the endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an
   endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence that is at least 95%,
   96%, 97%, for example, at least 98%, at least 99%, at least 99.5%, or 100% identical to a
   nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10 disposed on
 0 the exterior surface of the seed, and further comprising a formulation comprising a microbial
   stabilizer.
           In another aspect, the invention provides for a substantially uniform population of
   seeds comprising a plurality of seeds described above. Substantial uniformity can be
   determined in many ways. In some cases, at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least
25 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least
   90%, at least 95% or more of the seeds in the population, contains the endophytic bacterial
   population in an amount effective to colonize the plant disposed on the surface of the seeds.
   In other cases, at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least
   50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or more
30 of the seeds in the population, contains at least 100 CFU on its surface, for example, at least
   200 CFU, at least 300 CFU, at least 1,000 CFU, at least 3,000 CFU, at least 10,000 CFU, at
                                                    6

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   least 30,000 CFU, at least 100,000 CFU, at least 300,000 CFU, or at least 1,000,000 CFU per
   seed or more.
           In yet another aspect, the present invention provides for a bag comprising at least
   1,000 seeds as described herein above. The bag further comprises a label describing the seeds
 5 and/or said endophytic bacterial population.
           In still another aspect of the present invention, a plant or part or tissue of the plant, or
   progeny thereof is disclosed, which is generated by growing the seed or seedling described
   herein above.
           In yet another aspect, disclosed are substantially uniform populations of plants
 0 produced by growing a plurality of seeds, seedlings, or progeny thereof. In some cases, at
   least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or more of the plants in the population
   comprise an amount of the endophytic bacterial population effective to increase the root
   biomass of the plant by at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least
   6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%. In other cases, at least 10%, for
 5 example at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at
   least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or more of the plants comprise a microbe
   population that is substantially similar.
       In yet another aspect of the present invention, disclosed is an agricultural field comprising
   the population described above. The field generally comprises at least 100 plants, for
 0 example, at least 1,000 plants, at least 3,000 plants, at least 10,000 plants, at least 30,000
   plants, at least 100,000 plants or more in the field. In certain cases, the population of plants
   occupies at least about 100 square feet of space, and at least about 10%, for example, at least
   20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%, at least
   90% or more than 90% of the population comprises an amount of the endophytic bacterial
25 population effective to increase the root biomass of the plant by at least 1%, at least 2%, at
   least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7 %, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least
   10%. In another embodiment, the population of plants occupies at least about 100 square feet
   of space, wherein and at least about 10%, for example, at least 2 0%, at least 30%, at least
   40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or more than 90% of
30 the population comprises the microbe in reproductive tissue. In another embodiment, the
   population of plants occupies at least about 100 square feet of space, and at least about 10%,
   for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least   7 0 %,
                                                    7

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   at least 80%, at least 90% or more than 90% of the population comprises at least 100 CFUs,
   1,000 CFUs, 10,000 CFUs, 100,000 CFUs or more of the endophytic bacterial population.
           In another aspect of the invention, provided are preparations comprising a population
   of endophytic bacteria described herein and further comprising at least one agent selected
 5 from the group consisting of an agriculturally acceptable carrier, a tackifier, a microbial
   stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a
   plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient, and wherein the population comprises an
   amount of endophytes sufficient to improve an agronomic trait of the population of seeds. In
   one embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population consists essentially of an endophytic
 0 bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95% identical to a nucleic
   acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10.
           In one embodiment, the preparation is substantially stable at temperatures between
   about 4 0C and about 45 0C for at least about seven days.
           In another embodiment, the preparation is formulated to provide at least 100
 5 endophytes per seed, for example, at least 300 endophytes, at least 1,000 endophytes, at least
   3,000 endophytes, at least 10,000 endophytes, at least 30,000 endophytes, at least 100,000
   endophytes, at least 300,000 endophytes, or at least 1,000,000 endophytes per seed.
           In another embodiment, the preparation is formulated to provide a population of
   plants that demonstrates a substantially homogenous growth rate when introduced into
 0 agricultural production.
           In still another aspect, the present invention provides for a method of producing a
   commodity plant product. The method generally comprises obtaining a plant or plant tissue
   from the agricultural plant comprising the endophytic bacteria as described herein above, and
   producing the commodity plant product therefrom. In certain cases, the commodity plant
25 product is selected from the group consisting of grain, flour, starch, seed oil, syrup, meal,
   flour, oil, film, packaging, nutraceutical product, an animal feed, a fish fodder, a cereal
   product, a processed human-food product, a sugar or an alcohol and protein.
           In a related aspect, the present invention provides for a commodity plant product
   comprising a plant or part thereof and further comprising the endophytic bacterial population
30 or a portion thereof in a detectable level.
           In yet another aspect of the present invention, provided is a method for preparing an
   agricultural plant or a portion thereof comprising an endophytic bacterial population. The
                                                  8

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   method generally comprises applying to the seed or seedling a formulation comprising an
   endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an endophytic bacterium comprising
   a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95% identical, for example, at least 96%, at least
   97%, at least 98% identical, at least 99% identical, at least 99.5% identical, or 100% identical
 5 to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10. In one
   embodiment, the formulation further comprises at least one member selected from the group
   consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a
   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
   regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient. In some cases, the agricultural plant can be a seedling.
 0 In other cases, the agricultural plant can be a seed. In a particular embodiment, the
   agricultural plant is a seed or a seedling. In another embodiment, the method further
   comprises applying at least one member selected from the group consisting of an
   agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial          stabilizer, a fungicide, an
   antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a
 5 rodenticide, and a nutrient.
           In a final aspect, the present invention provides for a method for conferring one or
   more fitness benefits to an agricultural plant. The method generally comprises providing an
   agricultural plant or portion thereof, contacting said plant or portion thereof with a
   formulation comprising an exogenous endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially
 0 of an endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95%
   identical, for example, at at least 96%, at least 97%, least 98% identical, at least 99%
   identical, at least 99.5% identical, or 100% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from
   the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, disposed on an exterior surface in an amount
   effective to colonize the mature plant, wherein the formulation further comprises at least one
25 member selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier,
   a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an
   insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient, and allowing the seed or
   seedling to grow under conditions that allow the endophytic bacterium to colonize the plant.
   In some cases, the agricultural plant can be a seedling. In other cases, the agricultural plant
30 can be a seed. In a particular embodiment, the agricultural plant is a seed or a seedling.
           In one embodiment, the one or more of the fitness benefits are selected from the group
   consisting of increased germination, increased biomass, increased flowering time, increased
   biomass of the fruit or grain, increased grain or fruit yield, and increased drought tolerance.
                                                   9

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Brief Description of the Figures
           Figure 1A show the increases in root biomass in maize plants inoculated with the
   bacterial endophyte populations when compared with uninoculated control plants.
 5         Figure 1B show the increases in shoot biomass in maize plants inoculated with the
   bacterial endophyte populations when compared with uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 1C show the increases in total biomass in maize plants inoculated with the
   bacterial endophyte populations when compared with uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 2 shows the increases in stomatal conductance in maize plants inoculated with
 0 the bacterial endophyte populations when compared with uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 3 shows the increase in photosynthetic rates in maize plants inoculated with
   the bacterial endophyte populations when compared with uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 4 shows the increases in PS II photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm) in maize
   plants   inoculated   with   the bacterial    endophyte    populations,  when    compared    with
 5 uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 5 shows the increases in leaf area in maize plants inoculated with the bacterial
   endophyte populations, when compared with uninoculated control plants.
           Figure 6 shows the increases in chlorophyll content in maize plants inoculated with
   the bacterial endophyte populations, when compared with uninoculated control plants.
20 Definitions
           A "synthetic combination" includes a combination of a host plant and an endophyte.
   The combination may be achieved, for example, by coating the surface of the seed of a plant,
   such as an agricultural plant, or host plant tissues with an endophyte.
           As used herein, an "agricultural seed" is a seed used to grow a plant in agriculture (an
25 "agricultural plant"). The seed may be of a monocot or dicot plant, and is planted for the
   production of an agricultural product, for example grain, food, fiber, etc. As used herein, an
   agricultural seed is a seed that is prepared for planting, for example, in farms for growing.
           An "endophyte", or "endophytic microbe" includes an organism capable of living
   within a plant or associated therewith. An endophyte may refer to a bacterial or fungal
30 organism that may confer an increase in yield, biomass, resistance, or fitness in its host plant.
                                                    10

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   Endophytes may occupy the intracellular or extracellular spaces of plant tissue, including the
   leaves, stems, flowers, fruits, seeds, or roots. An endophyte can be a fungus, or a bacterium.
   As used herein, the term "microbe" is sometimes used to describe an endophyte.
           In some embodiments, the invention contemplates the use of microbes that are
 5 "exogenous" to a seed or plant. As used herein, a microbe is considered exogenous to the
   seed or plant if the seed or seedling that is unmodified (e.g., a seed or seedling that is not
   treated with the endophytic bacterial population descried herein) does not contain the
   microbe.
           In other cases, the invention contemplates the synthetic combinations of agricultural
 0 plants and an endophytic microbe population, in which the microbe population is
   "heterologously disposed" on the surface of or within a tissue of the agricultural plant. As
   used herein, a microbe is considered "heterologously disposed" on the surface or within a
   plant (or tissue) when the microbe is applied or disposed on the plant in a number or within a
   tissue in a number that is not found on that plant prior to application of the microbe. As such,
 5 a microbe is deemed heterologously disposed when applied on the plant that either does not
   naturally have the microbe on its surface or within the particular tissue to which the microbe
   is disposed, or does not naturally have the microbe on its surface or within the particular
   tissue in the number that is being applied. For the avoidance of doubt, "heterologously
   disposed" contemplates use of microbes that are "exogenous" to a seed or plant.
 0         In some cases, the present invention contemplates the use of microbes that are
   "compatible" with agricultural chemicals for example, a fungicide, an anti-bacterial
   compound, or any other agent widely used in agricultural which has the effect of interfering
   with optimal growth of microbes. As used herein, a microbe is "compatible" with an
   agricultural chemical, when the microbe is modified or otherwise adapted to grow in, or
25 otherwise survive, the concentration of the agricultural chemical used in agriculture. For
   example, a microbe disposed on the surface of a seed is compatible with the fungicide
   metalaxyl if it is able to survive the concentrations that are applied on the seed surface.
           "Biomass" means the total mass or weight (fresh or dry), at a given time, of a plant
   tissue, plant tissues, an entire plant, or population of plants, usually given as weight per unit
30 area. The term may also refer to all the plants or species in the community (community
   biomass).
            Some of the compositions and methods described herein involve endophytic microbes
   in an amount effective to colonize a plant. As used herein, a microbe is said to "colonize" a
                                                    11

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   plant or seed when it can exist in an endophytic relationship with the plant in the plant
   environment, for example inside the plant or a part or tissue thereof, including the seed.
            Some compositions described herein contemplate the use of an agriculturally
   compatible carrier. As used herein an "agriculturally compatible carrier" is intended to refer
 5 to any material, other than water, which can be added to a seed or a seedling without
   causing/having an adverse effect on the seed, the plant that grows from the seed, seed
   germination, or the like.
            A "transgenic plant" includes a plant or progeny plant of any subsequent generation
   derived therefrom, wherein the DNA of the plant or progeny thereof contains an introduced
 0 exogenous DNA segment not naturally present in a non-transgenic plant of the same strain.
   The transgenic plant may additionally contain sequences that are native to the plant being
   transformed, but wherein the "exogenous" gene has been altered in order to alter the level or
   pattern of expression of the gene, for example, by use of one or more heterologous regulatory
   or other elements.
 5          As used herein, a nucleic acid has "homology" or is "homologous" to a second
   nucleic acid if the nucleic acid sequence has a similar sequence to the second nucleic acid
   sequence. The terms "identity", "percent sequence identity" or "identical" in the context of
   nucleic acid sequences refer to the residues in the two sequences that are the same when
   aligned for maximum correspondence. There are a number of different algorithms known in
 0 the art that can be used to measure nucleotide sequence identity. For instance, polynucleotide
   sequences can be compared using FASTA, Gap or Bestfit, which are programs in Wisconsin
   Package Version 10.0, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, Wis. FASTA provides
   alignments and percent sequence identity of the regions of the best overlap between the query
   and search sequences. Pearson, Methods Enzymol. 183:63-98 (1990). The term "substantial
25 homology" or "substantial similarity," when referring to a nucleic acid or fragment thereof,
   indicates that, when optimally aligned with appropriate nucleotide insertions or deletions with
   another nucleic acid (or its complementary strand), there is nucleotide sequence identity in at
   least about 76%, 80%, 85%, or at least about 90%, or at least about 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or
   99% of the nucleotide bases, as measured by any well-known algorithm of sequence identity,
30 such as FASTA, BLAST or Gap, as discussed above.
            The present invention is directed to methods and compositions of bacterial
   endophytes, and plant-endophyte combinations that confer a fitness benefit in agricultural
   plants.
                                                  12

       WO 2015/200852                                                      PCT/US2015/038110
   Bacterial Endophyte
           In a first aspect, disclosed is a composition comprising a pure culture of a bacterial
   endophyte.
           In one embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Agrobacterium. In a
 5 particular embodiment, the Agrobacterium species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
   sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Agrobacterium species
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. In another
   embodiment, the Agrobacterium species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. In still another embodiment, the Agrobacterium species
 0 comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. In still another
   embodiment, the Agrobacterium species is the isolate FA13.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pantoea. In a
   particular embodiment, the Pantoea species is identified on the basis of its rDNA sequence,
   as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA
 5 sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In another embodiment, the Pantoea
   species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In
   still another embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 2. In still another embodiment, the Pantoea species is the isolate
   FF34.
 0         In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Sphingobium. In a
   particular embodiment, the Sphingobium species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
   sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Sphingobium species comprises
   a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In another
   embodiment, the Sphingobium species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
25 identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In still another embodiment, the Sphingobium species comprises a
   16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 3. In still another embodiment, the
   Sphingobium species is the isolate FC42.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pseudomonas. In a
   particular embodiment, the Pseudomonas species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
30 sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Pseudomonas species comprises
   a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4. In another
   embodiment, the Pseudomonas species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 4. In still another embodiment, the Pseudomonas species comprises
                                                  13

       WO 2015/200852                                                      PCT/US2015/038110
   a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 4. In still another embodiment, the
   Pseudomonas species is the isolate FB12.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Enterobacter.In a
   particular embodiment, the Enterobacter species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
 5 sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Enterobacterspecies comprises
   a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In another
   embodiment, the Enterobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In still another embodiment, the Enterobacterspecies comprises a
   16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. In still another embodiment, the
 0 Enterobacterspecies is the isolate FD17.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Micrococcus. In a
   particular embodiment, the Micrococcus species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
   sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Micrococcus species comprises
   a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In another
 5 embodiment, the Micrococcus species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In still another embodiment, the Micrococcus species comprises a
   16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 6. In still another embodiment, the
   Micrococcus species is the isolate S2.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Bacillus. In a
 0 particular embodiment, the Bacillus species is identified on the basis of its rDNA sequence,
   as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Bacillus species comprises a 16S rDNA
   sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In another embodiment, the Bacillus
   species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In
   still another embodiment, the Bacillus species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is
25 identical to SEQ ID NO: 7. In still another embodiment, the Bacillus species is the isolate S4.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Pantoea. In a
   particular embodiment, the Pantoea species is identified on the basis of its rDNA sequence,
   as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA
   sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In another embodiment, the Pantoea
30 species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In
   still another embodiment, the Pantoea species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 8. In still another embodiment, the Pantoea species is the isolate S6.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Acinetobacter. In a
   particular embodiment, the Acinetobacter species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
                                                  14

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Acinetobacter species
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 9. In another
   embodiment, the Acinetobacter species comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 9. In still another embodiment, the Acinetobacter species comprises
 5 a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 9. In still another embodiment, the
   Acinetobacter species is the isolate S9.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium is a species of Paenibacillus.In a
   particular embodiment, the Paenibacillus species is identified on the basis of its rDNA
   sequence, as outlined herein. In a particular embodiment, the Paenibacillusspecies comprises
 0 a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 10. In another
   embodiment, the Paenibacillusspecies comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is at least 99%
   identical to SEQ ID NO: 10. In still another embodiment, the Paenibacillus species
   comprises a 16S rDNA sequence that is identical to SEQ ID NO: 10. In still another
   embodiment, the Paenibacillusspecies is the isolate S10.
 5         In some cases, the endophytic microbe can be modified. For example, the endophytic
   microbe can be genetically modified by introduction of a transgene which stably integrates
   into the bacterial genome. In another embodiment, the endophytic microbe can be modified
   to harbor a plasmid or episome containing a transgene. In still another embodiment, the
   microbe can be modified by repeated passaging under selective conditions.
 0         The microbe can be modified to exhibit altered characteristics. In one embodiment,
   the endophytic microbe is modified to exhibit increased compatibility with chemicals
   commonly used in agriculture. Agricultural plants are often treated with a vast array of
   agrichemicals, including fungicides, biocides (anti-bacterial agents), herbicides, insecticides,
   nematicides, rodenticides, fertilizers, and other agents. Many such agents can affect the
25 ability of an endophytic bacterium to grow, divide, and/or otherwise confer beneficial traits to
   the plant.
           In some cases, it can be important for the microbe to be compatible with
   agrichemicals, particularly those with fungicidal or antibacterial properties, in order to persist
   in the plant although, as mentioned earlier, there are many such fungicidal or antibacterial
30 agents that do not penetrate the plant, at least at a concentration sufficient to interfere with the
   microbe. Therefore, where a systemic fungicide or antibacterial agent is used in the plant,
   compatibility of the microbe to be inoculated with such agents will be an important criterion.
                                                    15

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
            In one embodiment, spontaneous isolates of microbes which are compatible with
   agrichemicals can be used to inoculate the plants according to the methods described herein.
   For example, fungal microbes which are compatible with agriculturally employed fungicides
   can be isolated by plating a culture of the microbes on a petri dish containing an effective
 5 concentration of the fungicide, and isolating colonies of the microbe that are compatible with
   the fungicide. In another embodiment, a microbe that is compatible with a fungicide is used
   for the methods described herein. In still another embodiment, a microbe that is compatible
   with an antibacterial compound is used for the methods described herein. Fungicide
   compatible microbes can also be isolated by selection on liquid medium. The culture of
 0 microbes can be plated on petri dishes without any forms of mutagenesis; alternatively, the
   microbes can be mutagenized using any means known in the art. For example, microbial
   cultures can be exposed to UV light, gamma-irradiation, or chemical mutagens such as
   ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS) prior to selection on fungicide containing media. Finally,
   where the mechanism of action of a particular fungicide is known, the target gene can be
 5 specifically mutated (either by gene deletion, gene replacement, site-directed mutagenesis,
   etc.) to generate a microbe that is resilient against that particular fungicide. It is noted that the
   above-described methods can be used to isolate fungi that are compatible with both
   fungistatic and fungicidal compounds.
            It will also be appreciated by one skilled in the art that a plant may be exposed to
 0 multiple types of fungicides or antibacterial compounds, either simultaneously or in
   succession, for example at different stages of plant growth. Where the target plant is likely to
   be exposed to multiple fungicidal and/or antibacterial agents, a microbe that is compatible
   with many or all of these agrichemicals can be used to inoculate the plant. A microbe that is
   compatible with several fungicidal agents can be isolated, for example, by serial selection. A
25 microbe that is compatible with the first fungicidal agent is isolated as described above (with
   or without prior mutagenesis). A culture of the resulting microbe can then be selected for the
   ability to grow on liquid or solid media containing the second antifungal compound (again,
   with or without prior mutagenesis). Colonies isolated from the second selection are then
   tested to confirm its compatibility to both antifungal compounds.
30          Likewise, bacterial microbes that are compatible to biocides (including herbicides
   such as glyphosate or antibacterial compounds, whether bacteriostatic or bactericidal) that are
   agriculturally employed can be isolated using methods similar to those described for isolating
   fungicide compatible microbes. In one embodiment, mutagenesis of the microbial population
                                                    16

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   can be performed prior to selection with an antibacterial agent. In another embodiment,
   selection is performed on the microbial population without prior mutagenesis. In still another
   embodiment, serial selection is performed on a microbe: the microbe is first selected for
   compatibility to a first antibacterial agent. The isolated compatible microbe is then cultured
 5 and selected for compatibility to the second antibacterial agent. Any colony thus isolated is
   tested for compatibility to each, or both antibacterial agents to confirm compatibility with
   these two agents.
            The selection process described above can be repeated to identify isolates of the
   microbe that are compatible with a multitude of antifungal or antibacterial agents.
 O          Candidate isolates can be tested to ensure that the selection for agrichemical
   compatibility did not result in loss of a desired microbial bioactivity. Isolates of the microbe
   that are compatible with commonly employed fungicides can be selected as described above.
   The resulting compatible microbe can be compared with the parental microbe on plants in its
   ability to promote germination.
 5 PLANT-ENDOPHYTE COMBINATIONS
            In another aspect, the present invention provides for combinations of endophytes and
   plants. In one embodiment, disclosed is a seed or seedling of an agricultural plant comprising
   an exogenous endophytic bacterial population that is disposed on an exterior surface of or
   within the seed or seedling in an amount effective to colonize the plant, and further
 0 comprising a formulation that comprises at least one member selected from the group
   consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a
   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
   regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient. In another embodiment, the present invention
   discloses a seed or seedling of an agricultural plant comprising an endophytic bacterial
25 population that is heterologously disposed on an exterior surface of or within the seed or
   seedling in an amount effective to colonize the plant, and further comprising a formulation
   that comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally
   compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an
   herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient.
30          The endophytic bacterial population consists essentially of an endophytic bacterium
   described herein. In one embodiment, the endophytic bacterium comprises a 16S rRNA
   nucleic acid sequence that is at least 95% identical, for example, at least 96%, at least 97%, at
                                                   17

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   least 98% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
   NOs: 1-10. In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium comprises a 16S rRNA nucleic
   acid sequence that is at least 99% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group
   consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10. In still another embodiment, the endophytic bacterium
 5 comprises a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence that is identical to a nucleic acid sequence
   selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10.
            In one embodiment according to this aspect, disclosed is a seed of an agricultural
   plant comprising an exogenous endophytic bacterial population that is disposed on an exterior
   surface of or within the seed in an amount effective to colonize the plant. The bacterial
 0 population is considered exogenous to the seed if that particular seed does not inherently
   contain the bacterial population. Indeed, several of the endophytic microbes described herein
   have not been detected, for example, in any of the corn seeds sampled, as determined by
   highly sensitive methods.
            In other cases, the present invention discloses a seed of an agricultural plant
 5 comprising an endophytic bacterial population that is heterologously disposed on an exterior
   surface of or within the seed in an amount effective to colonize the plant. For example, the
   endophytic bacterial population that is disposed on an exterior surface or within the seed can
   be an endophytic bacterium that may be associated with the mature plant, but is not found on
   the surface of or within the seed. Alternatively, the endophytic bacterial population can be
 0 found in the surface of, or within the seed, but at a much lower number than is disposed.
            In some embodiments, a purified endophytes population is used that includes two or
   more (e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25 or greater than 25) different endophytes, e.g.,
   obtained from different families of plant or fungus, or different genera of plant or fungus, or
   from the same genera but different species of plant or fungus.
25          The different endophytes can be obtained from the same cultivar of agricultural plant
   (e.g., the same maize, wheat, rice, or barley plant), different cultivars of the same agricultural
   plant (e.g., two or more cultivars of maize, two or more cultivars of wheat, two or more
   cultivars of rice, or two or more cultivars of barley), or different species of the same type of
   agricultural plant (e.g., two or more different species of maize, two or more different species
30 of wheat, two or more different species of rice, or two or more different species of barley). In
   embodiments in which two or more endophytes are used, each of the endophytes can have
   different properties or activities, e.g., produce different metabolites, produce different
   enzymes such as different hydrolytic enzymes, confer different beneficial traits, or colonize
   different elements of a plant (e.g., leaves, stems, flowers, fruits, seeds, or roots). For example,
                                                   18

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   one endophyte can colonize a first and a second endophyte can colonize a tissue that differs
   from the first tissue.
           Combinations of endophytes can be selected by any one or more of several criteria. In
   one embodiment, compatible endophytes are selected. As used herein, "compatibility" refers
 5 to endophyte populations that do not significantly interfere with the growth, propagation,
   and/or production of beneficial substances of the other. Incompatible endophyte populations
   can arise, for example, where one of the populations produces or secrets a compound that is
   toxic or deleterious to the growth of the other population(s). Incompatibility arising from
   production of deleterious compounds/agents can be detected using methods known in the art,
 0 and as described herein elsewhere. Similarly, the distinct populations can compete for limited
   resources in a way that makes co-existence difficult.
           In another embodiment, combinations are selected on the basis of compounds
   produced by each population of endophytes. For example, the first population is capable of
   producing siderophores, and another population is capable of producing anti-fungal
 5 compounds. In one embodiment, the first population of endophytes or endophytic
   components is capable of a function selected from the group consisting of auxin production,
   nitrogen fixation, production of an antimicrobial compound, siderophore production, mineral
   phosphate solubilization, cellulase production, chitinase production, xylanase production, and
   acetoin production. In another embodiment, the second population of endophytes or
 0 endophytic component is capable of a function selected from the group consisting of auxin
   production, nitrogen fixation, production of an antimicrobial          compound, siderophore
   production, mineral phosphate solubilization, cellulase production, chitinase production,
   xylanase production, and acetoin production. In certain combinations, one of the endophytes
   is capable of using arabinose as a carbon source. In still another embodiment, the first and
25 second populations are capable of at least one different function.
           In still another embodiment, the combinations of endophytes are selected for their
   distinct localization in the plant after colonization. For example, the first population of
   endophytes or endophytic components can colonize, and in some cases preferentially
   colonize, the root tissue, while a second population can be selected on the basis of its
30 preferential colonization of the aerial parts of the agricultural plant. Therefore, in one
   embodiment, the first population is capable of colonizing one or more of the tissues selected
   from the group consisting of a root, shoot, leaf, flower, and seed. In another embodiment, the
   second population is capable of colonizing one or more tissues selected from the group
                                                  19

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   consisting of root, shoot, leaf, flower, and seed. In still another embodiment, the first and
   second populations are capable of colonizing a different tissue within the agricultural plant.
            In still another embodiment, combinations of endophytes are selected for their ability
   to confer one or more distinct fitness traits on the inoculated agricultural plant, either
 5 individually or in synergistic association with other endophytes. Alternatively, two or more
   endophytes induce the colonization of a third endophyte. For example, the first population of
   endophytes or endophytic components is selected on the basis that it confers significant
   increase in biomass, while the second population promotes increased drought tolerance on the
   inoculated agricultural plant. Therefore, in one embodiment, the first population is capable of
 0 conferring at least one trait selected from the group consisting of thermal tolerance, herbicide
   tolerance, drought resistance, insect resistance, fungus resistance, virus resistance, bacteria
   resistance, male sterility, cold tolerance, salt tolerance, increased yield, enhanced nutrient use
   efficiency, increased nitrogen use efficiency, increased fermentable carbohydrate content,
   reduced lignin content, increased antioxidant content, enhanced water use efficiency,
 5 increased vigor, increased germination efficiency, earlier or increased flowering, increased
   biomass, altered root-to-shoot biomass ratio, enhanced soil water retention, or a combination
   thereof. In another embodiment, the second population is capable of conferring a trait
   selected from the group consisting of thermal tolerance, herbicide tolerance, drought
   resistance, insect resistance, fungus resistance, virus resistance, bacteria resistance, male
 0 sterility, cold tolerance, salt tolerance, increased yield, enhanced nutrient use efficiency,
   increased nitrogen use efficiency, increased fermentable carbohydrate content, reduced lignin
   content, increased antioxidant content, enhanced water use efficiency, increased vigor,
   increased germination efficiency, earlier or increased flowering, increased biomass, altered
   root-to-shoot biomass ratio, and enhanced soil water retention. In still another embodiment,
25 each of the first and second population is capable of conferring a different trait selected from
   the group consisting of thermal tolerance, herbicide tolerance, drought resistance, insect
   resistance, fungus resistance, virus resistance, bacteria resistance, male sterility, cold
   tolerance, salt tolerance, increased yield, enhanced nutrient use efficiency, increased nitrogen
   use efficiency, increased fermentable carbohydrate content, reduced lignin content, increased
30 antioxidant content, enhanced water use efficiency, increased vigor, increased germination
   efficiency, earlier or increased flowering, increased biomass, altered root-to-shoot biomass
   ratio, and enhanced soil water retention.
            The combinations of endophytes can also be selected based on combinations of the
   above criteria. For example, the first population of endophytes can be selected on the basis of
                                                     20

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   the compound it produces (e.g., its ability to fix nitrogen, thus providing a potential nitrogen
   source to the plant), while the second population can be selected on the basis of its ability to
   confer increased resistance of the plant to a pathogen (e.g., a fungal pathogen).
            In some aspects of the present invention, it is contemplated that combinations of
 5 endophytes can provide an increased benefit to the host plant, as compared to that conferred
   by a single endophyte, by virtue of additive effects. For example, one endophyte strain that
   induces a benefit in the host plant may induce such benefit equally well in a plant that is also
   colonized with a different endophyte strain that also induces the same benefit in the host
   plant. The host plant thus exhibits the same total benefit from the plurality of different
 0 endophyte strains as the additive benefit to individual plants colonized with each individual
   endophyte of the plurality. In one example, a plant is colonized with two different endophyte
   strains: one provides a 1X increase in biomass when associated with the plant, and the other
   provides a 2X increase in biomass when associated with a different plant.             When both
   endophyte strains are associated with the same plant, that plant would experience a 3X
 5 (additive of 1X + 2X single effects) increase in auxin biomass. Additive effects are a
   surprising aspect of the present invention, as non-compatibility of endophytes may result in a
   cancelation of the beneficial effects of both endophytes.
            In some aspects of the present invention, it is contemplated that a combination of
   endophytes can provide an increased benefit to the host plant, as compared to that conferred
 0 by a single endophyte, by virtue of synergistic effects. For example, one endophyte strain that
   induces a benefit in the host plant may induce such benefit beyond additive effects in a plant
   that is also colonized with a different endophyte strain that also induces that benefit in the
   host plant. The host plant thus exhibits the greater total benefit from the plurality of different
   endophyte strains than would be expected from the additive benefit of individual plants
25 colonized with each individual endophyte of the plurality. In one example, a plant is
   colonized with two different endophyte strains: one provides a 1X increase in biomass when
   associated with a plant, and the other provides a 2X increase in biomass when associated with
   a different plant. When both endophyte strains are associated with the same plant, that plant
   would experience a 5X (greater than an additive of 1X + 2X single effects) increase in
30 biomass. Synergistic effects are a surprising aspect of the present invention.
            As shown in the Examples section below, the endophytic bacterial populations
   described herein are capable of colonizing the host plant. In certain cases, the endophytic
   bacterial population can be applied to the plant, for example the plant seed, or by foliar
                                                   21

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   application, and successful colonization can be confirmed by detecting the presence of the
   bacterial population within the plant. For example, after applying the bacteria to the seeds,
   high titers of the bacteria can be detected in the roots and shoots of the plants that germinate
   from the seeds.     In addition, significant quantities of the bacteria can be detected in the
 5 rhizosphere of the plants. Therefore, in one embodiment, the endophytic microbe population
   is disposed in an amount effective to colonize the plant. Colonization of the plant can be
   detected, for example, by detecting the presence of the endophytic microbe inside the plant.
   This can be accomplished by measuring the viability of the microbe after surface sterilization
   of the seed or the plant: endophytic colonization results in an internal localization of the
 0 microbe, rendering it resistant to conditions of surface sterilization. The presence and
   quantity of the microbe can also be established using other means known in the art, for
   example, immunofluorescence microscopy using microbe specific antibodies, or fluorescence
   in situ hybridization (see,      for example, Amann et al. (2001) Current Opinion in
   Biotechnology 12:231-236, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Alternatively,
 5 specific nucleic acid probes recognizing conserved sequences from the endophytic bacterium
   can be employed to amplify a region, for example by quantitative PCR, and correlated to
   CFUs by means of a standard curve.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic microbe is disposed in an amount effective to
   be detectable in the mature agricultural plant. In one embodiment, the endophytic microbe is
 0 disposed in an amount effective to be detectable in an amount of at least about 100 CFU, at
   least about 200 CFU, at least about 300 CFU, at least about 500 CFU, at least about 1,000
   CFU, at least about 3,000 CFU, at least about 10,000 CFU, at least about 30,000 CFU, at
   least about 100,000 CFU or more in the mature agricultural plant.
           In some cases, the endophytic microbe is capable of colonizing particular tissue types
25 of the plant. In one embodiment, the endophytic microbe is disposed on the seed or seedling
   in an amount effective to be detectable within a target tissue of the mature agricultural plant
   selected from a fruit, a seed, a leaf, or a root, or portion thereof. For example, the endophytic
   microbe can be detected in an amount of at least about 100 CFU, at least about 200 CFU, at
   least about 300 CFU, at least about 500 CFU, at least about 1,000 CFU, at least about 3,000
30 CFU, at least about 10,000 CFU, at least about 30,000 CFU, at least about 100,000 CFU or
   more, in the target tissue of the mature agricultural plant.
           In some cases, the microbes disposed on the seed or seedling can be detected in the
   rhizosphere. This may be due to successful colonization by the endophytic microbe, where
                                                     22

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   certain quantities of the microbe is shed from the root, thereby colonizing the rhizosphere. In
   some cases, the rhizosphere-localized microbe can secrete compounds (such as siderophores
   or organic acids) which assist with nutrient acquisition by the plant. Therefore, in another
   embodiment, the endophytic microbe is disposed on the surface of the seed in an amount
 5 effective to detectably colonize the soil environment surrounding the mature agricultural
   plant when compared with a reference agricultural plant. For example, the microbe can be
   detected in an amount of at least 100 CFU/g DW, for example, at least 200 CFU/g DW, at
   least 500 CFU/g DW, at least 1,000 CFU/g DW, at least 3,000 CFU/g DW, at least 10,000
   CFU/g DW, at least 30,000 CFU/g DW, at least 100,000 CFU/g DW, at least 300,000 CFU/g
 0 DW, or more, in the rhizosphere.
            The endophytic bacterial populations described herein are also capable of providing
   many fitness benefits to the host plant. As shown in the Examples section, endophyte
   inoculated plants display increased seed germination, increased vigor, increased biomass
   (e.g., increased root or shoot biomass), increased photochemical efficiency. Therefore, in one
 5 embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface or within a tissue
   of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to increase the biomass of the plant, or a part or
   tissue of the plant grown from the seed or seedling. The increased biomass is useful in the
   production of commodity products derived from the plant. Such commodity products include
   an animal feed, a fish fodder, a cereal product, a processed human-food product, a sugar or an
 0 alcohol. Such products may be a fermentation product or a fermentable product, one such
   exemplary product is a biofuel. The increase in biomass can occur in a part of the plant (e.g.,
   the root tissue, shoots, leaves, etc.), or can be an increase in overall biomass. Increased
   biomass production, such an increase meaning at least about 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%,
   60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%, or greater than 100% when compared with a reference
25 agricultural plant. Such increase in overall biomass can be under relatively stress-free
   conditions. In other cases, the increase in biomass can be in plants grown under any number
   of abiotic or biotic stresses, including drought stress, salt stress, heat stress, cold stress, low
   nutrient stress, nematode stress, insect herbivory stress, fungal pathogen stress, bacterial
   pathogen stress, and viral pathogen stress. In one particular embodiment, the endophytic
30 bacterial population is disposed in an amount effective to increase root biomass by at least
   1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at
   least 9%, or at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%,
                                                  23

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   at least 60%, at least    7 5 %, at least 100%, or more, when compared with a reference
   agricultural plant.
           In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface
   or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to increase the rate of seed
 5 germination when compared with a reference agricultural plant. For example, the increase in
   seed germination can be at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least
   6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least
   30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 75%, at least 100%, or more, when
   compared with a reference agricultural plant.
 0         In other cases, the endophytic microbe is disposed on the seed or seedling in an
   amount effective to increase the average biomass or yield of the fruit or cob from the
   resulting plant by at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5 %, at least 6%, at
   least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, for example, at least 15%, at least 20%, at
   least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 100% or more, when compared
 5 with a reference agricultural plant.
           As highlighted in the Examples section, plants inoculated with the endophytic
   bacterial population also show an increase in overall plant height. Therefore, in one
   embodiment, the present invention provides for a seed comprising an endophytic bacterial
   population which is disposed on the surface or within a tissue of the seed or seedling in an
 0 amount effective to increase the height of the plant. For example, the endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to result in an increase in height of the
   agricultural plant such that is at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at
   least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10% greater, for example, at least
   20% greater, at least 30% greater, at least 40% greater, at least 50% greater, at least 60%
25 greater, at least 70% greater, at least 80% greater, at least 90% greater, at least 100% greater,
   at least 125% greater, at least 150% greater or more, when compared with a reference
   agricultural plant, the plant. Such increase in height can be under relatively stress-free
   conditions. In other cases, the increase in height can be in plants grown under any number of
   abiotic or biotic stresses, including drought stress, salt stress, heat stress, cold stress, low
30 nutrient stress, nematode stress, insect herbivory stress, fungal pathogen stress, bacterial
   pathogen stress, and viral pathogen stress.
           The host plants inoculated with the endophytic bacterial population also show
   dramatic improvements in their ability to utilize water more efficiently. Water use efficiency
                                                    24

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   is a parameter often correlated with drought tolerance. Water use efficiency (WUE) is a
   parameter often correlated with drought tolerance, and is the C02 assimilation rate per water
   transpired by the plant. An increase in biomass at low water availability may be due to
   relatively improved efficiency of growth or reduced water consumption. In selecting traits for
 5 improving crops, a decrease in water use, without a change in growth would have particular
   merit in an irrigated agricultural system where the water input costs were high. An increase in
   growth without a corresponding jump in water use would have applicability to all agricultural
   systems. In many agricultural systems where water supply is not limiting, an increase in
   growth, even if it came at the expense of an increase in water use also increases yield.
 0         When soil water is depleted or if water is not available during periods of drought, crop
   yields are restricted. Plant water deficit develops if transpiration from leaves exceeds the
   supply of water from the roots. The available water supply is related to the amount of water
   held in the soil and the ability of the plant to reach that water with its root system.
   Transpiration of water from leaves is linked to the fixation of carbon dioxide by
 5 photosynthesis through the stomata. The two processes are positively correlated so that high
   carbon dioxide influx through photosynthesis is closely linked to water loss by transpiration.
   As water transpires from the leaf, leaf water potential is reduced and the stomata tend to close
   in a hydraulic process limiting the amount of photosynthesis. Since crop yield is dependent
   on the fixation of carbon dioxide in photosynthesis, water uptake and transpiration are
 0 contributing factors to crop yield. Plants which are able to use less water to fix the same
   amount of carbon dioxide or which are able to function normally at a lower water potential
   have the potential to conduct more photosynthesis and thereby to produce more biomass and
   economic yield in many agricultural systems. An increased water use efficiency of the plant
   relates in some cases to an increased fruit/kernel size or number.
25         Therefore, in one embodiment, the plants described herein exhibit an increased water
   use efficiency when compared with a reference agricultural plant grown under the same
   conditions. For example, the plants grown from the seeds comprising the endophytic bacterial
   population can have at least 1% higher WUE, for example, at least 1%, at least 2%, at least
   3%, at least 4%, at least 5 %, at least 6%, at least 7 %, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%
30 higher, at least 20% higher, at least 30% higher, at least 40% higher, at least 50% higher, at
   least 60% higher, at least 70% higher, at least 80% higher, at least 90% higher, at least 100%
   higher WUE than a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions. Such an
   increase in WUE can occur under conditions without water deficit, or under conditions of
   water deficit, for example, when the soil water content is less than or equal to 60% of water
                                                    25

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   saturated soil, for example, less than or equal to 50%, less than or equal to 40%, less than or
   equal to 30%, less than or equal to 20%, less than or equal to 10% of water saturated soil on a
   weight basis.
           In a related embodiment, the plant comprising the endophytic bacterial endophyte can
 5 have at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7 %, at
   least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10% higher relative water content (RWC), for example, at
   least least 20% higher, at least 30% higher, at least 40% higher, at least 50% higher, at least
   60% higher, at least 70% higher, at least 80% higher, at least 90% higher, at least 100%
   higher RWC than a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions.
 0         The endophytes described herein may also confer to the plant an increased ability to
   grow in nutrient limiting conditions, for example by solubilizing or otherwise making
   available to the plants macronutrients or micronutrients that are complexed, insoluble, or
   otherwise in an unavailable form. In one embodiment, a plant is inoculated with an endophyte
   that confers increased ability to liberate and/or otherwise provide to the plant with nutrients
 5 selected from the group consisting of phosphate, nitrogen, potassium, iron, manganese,
   calcium, molybdenum, vitamins, or other micronutrients. Such a plant can exhibit increased
   growth in soil containing limiting amounts of such nutrients when compared with reference
   agricultural plant. Differences between the endophyte-associated plant and reference
   agricultural plant can be measured by comparing the biomass, or other physical parameters
 0 described above, of the two plant types grown under limiting conditions. Therefore, in one
   embodiment, the plant containing the endophyte able to confer increased tolerance to nutrient
   limiting conditions exhibits a difference in a physiological parameter that is at least about 5%
   greater, for example at least about 5%, at least about 8%, at least about 10%, at least about
   15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least
25 about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 80%, at
   least about 90%, or at least 100%, at least about 200%, at least about 300%, at least about
   400% or greater than a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions of
   nutrient stress. In another embodiment, the plant containing the endophyte is able to grown
   under nutrient stress conditions while exhibiting no difference in the physiological parameter
30 compared to a plant that is grown without nutrient stress. In some embodiments, such a plant
   will exhibit no difference in the physiological parameter when grown with 2-5% less nitrogen
   than average cultivation practices on normal agricultural land, for example, at least 5-10%
   less nitrogen, at least 10-15% less nitrogen, at least 15- 2 0% less nitrogen, at least     2 0- 2 5%
   less nitrogen, at least 2 5- 3 0% less nitrogen, at least 3 0- 3 5% less nitrogen, at least 3 5- 4 0%
                                                    26

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   less nitrogen, at least 40-45% less nitrogen, at least 45-50% less nitrogen, at least 50-55%
   less nitrogen, at least 55-60% less nitrogen, at least 60-65% less nitrogen, at least 65-70%
   less nitrogen, at least 70-75% less nitrogen, at least 80-85% less nitrogen, at least 85-90%
   less nitrogen, at least 90-95% less nitrogen, or less, when compared with crop plants grown
 5 under normal conditions during an average growing season.             In some embodiments, the
   microbe capable of providing nitrogen-stress tolerance to a plant is diazotrophic. In other
   embodiments, the microbe capable of providing nitrogen-stress tolerance to a plant is non
   diazotrophic.
            Many of the microbes described herein are capable of producing the plant hormone
 0 auxin indole acetic acid (IAA) when grown in culture. Auxin may play a key role in altering
   the physiology of the plant, including the extent of root growth. Therefore, in another
   embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population is disposed on the surface or within a tissue
   of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to detectably induce production of auxin in the
   agricultural plant. For example, the increase in auxin production can be at least 1%, at least
 5 2 %,  at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or
   at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%,
   at least 75%, at least 100%, or more, when compared with a reference agricultural plant. In
   one embodiment, the increased auxin production can be detected in a tissue type selected
   from the group consisting of the root, shoot, leaves, and flowers.
 0          In another embodiment, the endophytic bacterial population of the present invention
   can cause a detectable modulation in the amount of a metabolite in the plant or part of the
   plant. Such modulation can be detected, for example, by measuring the levels of a given
   metabolite and comparing with the levels of the metabolite in a reference agricultural plant
   grown under the same conditions.
25 Plants useful for the Present Invention
            The methods and compositions according to the present invention can be deployed for
   any seed plant species. Monocotyledonous as well as dicotyledonous plant species are
   particularly suitable. The methods and compositions are preferably used with plants that are
   important or interesting for agriculture, horticulture, for the production of biomass used in
30 producing liquid fuel molecules and other chemicals, and/or forestry.
            Thus, the invention has use over a broad range of plants, preferably higher plants
   pertaining to the classes of Angiospermae and Gymnospermae. Plants of the subclasses of the
                                                    27

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   Dicotylodenae and the Monocotyledonae are particularly suitable. Dicotyledonous plants
   belong to the orders of the Aristochiales, Asterales, Batales, Campanulales, Capparales,
   Caryophyllales, Casuarinales, Celastrales, Cornales, Diapensales, Dilleniales, Dipsacales,
   Ebenales, Ericales, Eucomiales, Euphorbiales, Fabales, Fagales, Gentianales, Geraniales,
 5 Haloragales, Hamamelidales, Middles, Juglandales, Lamiales, Laurales, Lecythidales,
   Leitneriales, Magniolales, Malvales, Myricales, Myrtales, Nymphaeales, Papeverales,
   Piperales, Plantaginales, Plumb aginales, Podostemales, Polemoniales, Polygalales,
   Polygonales, Primulales, Proteales, Rafflesiales, Ranunculales, Rhamnales, Rosales,
   Rubiales, Salicales, Santales, Sapindales, Sarraceniaceae, Scrophulariales, Theales,
 0 Trochodendrales, Umbellales, Urticales, and Violates. Monocotyledonous plants belong to
   the orders of the Alismatales, Arales, Arecales, Bromeliales, Commelinales, Cyclanthales,
   Cyperales, Eriocaulales, Hydrocharitales, Juncales, Lilliales, Najadales, Orchidales,
   Pandanales,Poales, Restionales, Triuridales, Typhales, and Zingiberales. Plants belonging
   to the class of the Gymnospermae are Cycadales, Ginkgoales, Gnetales, and Pinales.
 5          Suitable species may include members of the genus Abelmoschus, Abies, Acer,
   Agrostis, Allium, Alstroemeria, Ananas, Andrographis, Andropogon, Artemisia, Arundo,
   Atropa, Berberis, Beta, Bixa, Brassica, Calendula, Camellia, Camptotheca, Cannabis,
   Capsicum, Carthamus, Catharanthus, Cephalotaxus, Chrysanthemum, Cinchona, Citrullus,
   Coffea, Colchicum, Coleus, Cucumis, Cucurbita, Cynodon, Datura, Dianthus, Digitalis,
 0 Dioscorea, Elaeis, Ephedra, Erianthus, Erythroxylum, Eucalyptus, Festuca, Fragaria,
   Galanthus, Glycine, Gossypium, Helianthus, Hevea, Hordeum, Hyoscyamus, Jatropha,
   Lactuca, Linum, Lolium, Lupinus, Lycopersicon, Lycopodium, Manihot, Medicago, Mentha,
   Miscanthus, Musa, Nicotiana, Oryza, Panicum, Papaver, Parthenium, Pennisetum, Petunia,
   Phalaris,Phleum, Pinus, Poa, Poinsettia, Populus, Rauwolfia, Ricinus, Rosa, Saccharum,
25 Salix, Sanguinaria, Scopolia, Secale, Solanum, Sorghum, Spartina, Spinacea, Tanacetum,
   Taxus, Theobroma, Triticosecale, Triticum, Uniola, Veratrum, Vinca, Vitis, and Zea.
           The methods and compositions of the present invention are preferably used in plants
   that are important or interesting for agriculture, horticulture, biomass for the production of
   biofuel molecules and other chemicals, and/or forestry. Non-limiting examples include, for
30 instance,   Panicum virgatum (switchgrass), Sorghum bicolor (sorghum,             sudangrass),
   Miscanthus giganteus (miscanthus), Saccharum sp. (energycane), Populus balsamifera
   (poplar), Zea mays (corn), Glycine max (soybean), Brassica napus (canola), Triticum
   aestivum (wheat), Gossypium hirsutum (cotton), Oryza sativa (rice), Helianthus annuus
                                                  28

       WO 2015/200852                                                       PCT/US2015/038110
    (sunflower), Medicago sativa (alfalfa), Beta vulgaris (sugarbeet), Pennisetum glaucum (pearl
    millet), Panicum spp., Sorghum spp., Miscanthus spp., Saccharum spp., Erianthus spp.,
    Populus spp., Secale cereale (rye), Salix spp. (willow), Eucalyptus spp. (eucalyptus),
    Triticosecale spp. (triticum-wheat X rye), Bamboo, Carthamus tinctorius (safflower),
 5  Jatrophacurcas (Jatropha),Ricinus communis (castor), Elaeis guineensis (oil palm), Phoenix
    dactylifera   (date  palm),   Archontophoenix     cunninghamiana (king      palm),   Syagrus
    romanzoffiana (queen palm), Linum usitatissimum (flax), Brassicajuncea, Manihot esculenta
    (cassaya), Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato), Lactuca saliva (lettuce), Musa paradisiaca
    (banana),    Solanum    tuberosum (potato), Brassica oleracea (broccoli,         cauliflower,
 0  brusselsprouts), Camellia sinensis (tea), Fragariaananassa (strawberry), Theobroma cacao
    (cocoa),   Coffea arabica (coffee), Vitis vinifera (grape), Ananas comosus (pineapple),
    Capsicum annum (hot & sweet pepper), Allium cepa (onion), Cucumis melo (melon),
    Cucumis sativus (cucumber), Cucurbita maxima (squash), Cucurbita moschata (squash),
    Spinacea oleracea (spinach), Citrullus lanatus (watermelon), Abelmoschus esculentus (okra),
 5  Solanum melongena (eggplant), Papaver somniferum (opium poppy), Papaver orientale,
    Taxus baccata, Taxus brevifolia, Artemisia annua, Cannabissaliva, Camptotheca acuminate,
    Catharanthus roseus, Vinca rosea, Cinchona officinalis, Coichicum autumnale, Veratrum
    californica, Digitalis lanata, Digitalis purpurea, Dioscorea spp., Andrographis paniculata,
    Atropa belladonna, Datura stomonium, Berberis spp., Cephalotaxus spp., Ephedra sinica,
 0  Ephedra spp., Erythroxylum coca, Galanthus wornorii, Scopolia spp., Lycopodium serratum
    (Huperzia serrata), Lycopodium spp., Rauwolfia serpentina, Rauwolfia spp., Sanguinaria
    canadensis, Hyoscyamus spp., Calendula officinalis, Chrysanthemum parthenium, Coleus
   forskohlii, Tanacetum parthenium, Parthenium argentatum (guayule), Hevea spp. (rubber),
    Mentha spicata (mint), Mentha piperita (mint), Bixa orellana, Alstroemeria spp., Rosa spp.
25  (rose), Dianthus caryophyllus (carnation), Petunia spp. (petunia), Poinsettia pulcherrima
    (poinsettia), Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco), Lupinus albus (lupin), Uniola paniculata (oats),
    Hordeum vulgare (barley), and Lolium spp. (ryegrass).
            The methods described herein can also be used with genetically modified plants, for
    example, to yield additional trait benefits to a plant. For example, a genetically modified
30  plant which is, by means of the transgene, optimized with respect to a certain trait, can be
    further augmented with additional trait benefits conferred by the newly introduced microbe.
    Therefore, in one embodiment, a genetically modified plant is contacted with a microbe.
                                                  29

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   Formulations/Seed coating compositions
            In some embodiments, the present invention contemplates seeds comprising a
   endophytic bacterial population, and further comprising a formulation. The formulation
   useful for these embodiments generally comprise at least one member selected from the
 5 group consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a
   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
   regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient.
            In some cases, the endophytic bacterial population is mixed with an agriculturally
   compatible carrier. The carrier can be a solid carrier or liquid carrier. The carrier may be any
 0 one or more of a number of carriers that confer a variety of properties, such as increased
   stability, wettability, or dispersability. Wetting agents such as natural or synthetic surfactants,
   which can be nonionic or ionic surfactants, or a combination thereof can be included in a
   composition of the invention.        Water-in-oil emulsions can also be used to formulate a
   composition that includes the endophytic bacterial population of the present invention (see,
 5 for example, U.S. Patent No. 7,485,451, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety). Suitable formulations that may be prepared include wettable powders, granules,
   gels, agar strips or pellets, thickeners, and the like, microencapsulated particles, and the like,
   liquids such as aqueous flowables, aqueous suspensions, water-in-oil emulsions, etc. The
   formulation may include grain or legume products, for example, ground grain or beans, broth
 0 or flour derived from grain or beans, starch, sugar, or oil.
            In some embodiments, the agricultural carrier may be soil or plant growth medium.
   Other agricultural carriers that may be used include fertilizers, plant-based oils, humectants,
   or combinations thereof. Alternatively, the agricultural carrier may be a solid, such as
   diatomaceous earth, loam, silica, alginate, clay, bentonite, vermiculite, seed cases, other plant
25 and animal products, or combinations, including granules, pellets, or suspensions. Mixtures
   of any of the aforementioned ingredients are also contemplated as carriers, such as but not
   limited to, pesta (flour and kaolin clay), agar or flour-based pellets in loam, sand, or clay, etc.
   Formulations may include food sources for the cultured organisms, such as barley, rice, or
   other biological materials such as seed, plant parts, sugar cane bagasse, hulls or stalks from
30 grain processing, ground plant material or wood from building site refuse, sawdust or small
   fibers from recycling of paper, fabric, or wood. Other suitable formulations will be known to
   those skilled in the art.
                                                    30

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
           In one embodiment, the formulation can comprise a tackifier or adherent. Such agents
   are useful for combining the bacterial population of the invention with carriers that can
   contain other compounds (e.g., control agents that are not biologic), to yield a coating
   composition. Such compositions help create coatings around the plant or seed to maintain
 5 contact between the microbe and other agents with the plant or plant part. In one
   embodiment, adherents are selected from the group consisting of: alginate, gums, starches,
   lecithins, formononetin, polyvinyl alcohol, alkali formononetinate, hesperetin, polyvinyl
   acetate, cephalins, Gum Arabic, Xanthan Gum, Mineral Oil, Polyethylene Glycol (PEG),
   Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), Arabino-galactan, Methyl Cellulose, PEG 400, Chitosan,
 0 Polyacrylamide, Polyacrylate, Polyacrylonitrile, Glycerol, Triethylene glycol, Vinyl Acetate,
   Gellan    Gum,    Polystyrene,  Polyvinyl,   Carboxymethyl      cellulose,  Gum   Ghatti,   and
   polyoxyethylene-polyoxybutylene      block    copolymers.     Other    examples   of   adherent
   compositions that can be used in the synthetic preparation include those described in EP
   0818135, CA 1229497, WO 2013090628, EP 0192342, WO 2008103422 and CA 1041788,
 5 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           The formulation can also contain a surfactant. Non-limiting examples of surfactants
   include nitrogen-surfactant blends such as Prefer 28 (Cenex), Surf-N(US), Inhance (Brandt),
   P-28 (Wilfarm) and Patrol (Helena); esterified seed oils include Sun-It II (AmCy), MSO
   (UAP), Scoil (Agsco), Hasten (Wilfarm) and Mes-100 (Drexel); and organo-silicone
 0 surfactants include Silwet L77 (UAP), Silikin (Terra), Dyne-Amic (Helena), Kinetic
   (Helena), Sylgard 309 (Wilbur-Ellis) and Century (Precision). In one embodiment, the
   surfactant is present at a concentration of between 0.01% v/v to 10% v/v. In another
   embodiment, the surfactant is present at a concentration of between 0.l1% v/v to 1%v/v.
           In certain cases, the formulation includes a microbial stabilizer. Such an agent can
25 include a desiccant. As used herein, a "desiccant" can include any compound or mixture of
   compounds that can be classified as a desiccant regardless of whether the compound or
   compounds are used in such concentrations that they in fact have a desiccating effect on the
   liquid inoculant. Such desiccants are ideally compatible with the bacterial population used,
   and should promote the ability of the microbial population to survive application on the seeds
30 and to survive desiccation. Examples of suitable desiccants include one or more of trehalose,
   sucrose, glycerol, and methylene glycol. Other suitable desiccants include, but are not limited
   to, non reducing sugars and sugar alcohols (e.g., mannitol or sorbitol). The amount of
   desiccant introduced into the formulation can range from about 5% to about 50% by
                                                  31

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   weight/volume, for example, between about 10% to about 40%, between about 15% and
   about 35%, or between about 20% and about 30%.
            In some cases, it is advantageous for the formulation to contain agents such as a
   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
 5 regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient. Such agents are ideally compatible with the
   agricultural seed or seedling onto which the formulation is applied (e.g., it should not be
   deleterious to the growth or health of the plant). Furthermore, the agent is ideally one which
   does not cause safety concerns for human, animal or industrial use (e.g., no safety issues, or
   the compound is sufficiently labile that the commodity plant product derived from the plant
 0 contains negligible amounts of the compound).
            In the liquid form, for example, solutions or suspensions, the endophytic bacterial
   populations of the present invention can be mixed or suspended in aqueous solutions.
   Suitable liquid diluents or carriers include aqueous solutions, petroleum distillates, or other
   liquid carriers.
 5          Solid compositions     can be prepared by dispersing the endophytic bacterial
   populations of the invention in and on an appropriately divided solid carrier, such as peat,
   wheat, bran, vermiculite, clay, talc, bentonite, diatomaceous earth, fuller's earth, pasteurized
   soil, and the like. When such formulations are used as wettable powders, biologically
   compatible dispersing agents such as non-ionic, anionic, amphoteric, or cationic dispersing
 0 and emulsifying agents can be used.
            The solid carriers used upon formulation include, for example, mineral carriers such
   as kaolin clay, pyrophyllite, bentonite, montmorillonite, diatomaceous earth, acid white soil,
   vermiculite, and pearlite, and inorganic salts such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium
   phosphate, ammonium nitrate, urea, ammonium chloride, and calcium carbonate. Also,
25 organic fine powders such as wheat flour, wheat bran, and rice bran may be used. The liquid
   carriers include vegetable oils such as soybean oil and cottonseed oil, glycerol, ethylene
   glycol, polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, etc.
            In one particular embodiment, the formulation is ideally suited for coating of the
   endophytic microbial population onto seeds. The endophytic bacterial populations described
30 in the present invention are capable of conferring many fitness benefits to the host plants. The
   ability to confer such benefits by coating the bacterial populations on the surface of seeds has
   many potential advantages, particularly when used in a commercial (agricultural) scale.
            The endophytic bacterial populations herein can be combined with one or more of the
   agents described above to yield a formulation suitable for combining with an agricultural
                                                  32

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   seed or seedling.    The bacterial population can be obtained from growth in culture, for
   example, using a synthetic growth medium. In addition, the microbe can be cultured on solid
   media, for example on petri dishes, scraped off and suspended into the preparation. Microbes
   at different growth phases can be used. For example, microbes at lag phase, early-log phase,
 5 mid-log phase, late-log phase, stationary phase, early death phase, or death phase can be
   used.
           The formulations comprising the endophytic bacterial population of the present
   invention typically contains between about 0.1 to 95% by weight, for example, between about
   1% and 90%, between about 3% and 75%, between about 5% and 60%, between about 10%
 0 and 50% in wet weight of the bacterial population of the present invention. It is preferred that
   the formulation contains at least about 103 per ml of formulation, for example, at least about
   104, at least about 105, at least about 106, at least 107 CFU, at least 108 CFU per ml of
   formulation.
           As described above, in certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates the
 5 use of endophytic bacteria that are heterologously disposed on the plant, for example, the
   seed. In certain cases, the agricultural plant may contain bacteria that are substantially similar
   to, or even genetically indistinguishable from, the bacteria that are being applied to the plant.
   It is noted that, in many cases, the bacteria that are being applied is substantially different
   from the bacteria already present in several significant ways. First, the bacteria that are being
 0 applied to the agricultural plant have been adapted to culture, or adapted to be able to grow
   on growth media in isolation from the plant. Second, in many cases, the bacteria that are
   being applied are derived from a clonal origin, rather than from a heterologous origin and, as
   such, can be distinguished from the bacteria that are already present in the agricultural plant
   by the clonal similarity. For example, where a microbe that has been inoculated by a plant is
25 also present in the plant (for example, in a different tissue or portion of the plant), or where
   the introduced microbe is sufficiently similar to a microbe that is present in some of the
   plants (or portion of the plant, including seeds), it is still possible to distinguish between the
   inoculated microbe and the native microbe by distinguishing between the two microbe types
   on the basis of their epigenetic status (e.g., the bacteria that are applied, as well as their
30 progeny, would be expected to have a much more uniform and similar pattern of cytosine
   methylation of its genome, with respect to the extent and/or location of methylation).
                                                   33

       WO 2015/200852                                                                PCT/US2015/038110
   POPULATION OF SEEDS
           In another aspect, the invention provides for a substantially uniform population of
   seeds comprising a plurality of seeds comprising the endophytic bacterial population, as
   described herein above. Substantial uniformity can be determined in many ways. In some
 5 cases, at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at
   least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at
   least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or
   more of the seeds in the population, contains the endophytic bacterial population in an
   amount effective to colonize the plant disposed on the surface of the seeds. In other cases, at
 0 least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least
   8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, for example, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least
   50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or more
   of the seeds in the population, contains at least 100 CFU on its surface, for example, at least
   200 CFU, at least 300 CFU, at least 1,000 CFU, at least 3,000 CFU, at least 10,000 CFU, at
 5 least 30,000 CFU, at least 100,000 CFU, at least 300,000 CFU, or at least 1,000,000 CFU per
   seed or more.
           In a particular embodiment, the population of seeds is packaged in a bag or container
   suitable for commercial sale. Such a bag contains a unit weight or count of the seeds
   comprising the endophytic bacterial population as described herein, and further comprises a
 0 label. In one embodiment, the bag or container contains at least 1,000 seeds, for example, at
   least 5,000 seeds, at least 10,000 seeds, at least 20,000 seeds, at least 30,000 seeds, at least
   50,000 seeds, at least 70,000 seeds, at least 80,000 seeds, at least 90,000 seeds or more. In
   another embodiment, the bag or container can comprise a discrete weight of seeds, for
   example, at least 1 lb, at least 2 lbs, at least 5 lbs, at least 10 lbs, at least 30 lbs, at least 50 lbs,
25 at least 70 lbs or more. The bag or container comprises a label describing the seeds and/or
   said endophytic bacterial population. The label can contain additional information, for
   example, the information selected from the group consisting of: net weight, lot number,
   geographic origin of the seeds, test date, germination rate, inert matter content, and the
   amount of noxious weeds, if any. Suitable containers or packages include those traditionally
30 used in plant seed commercialization. The invention also contemplates other containers with
   more sophisticated storage capabilities (e.g., with microbiologically tight wrappings or with
   gas-or water-proof containments).
                                                      34

      WO 2015/200852                                                              PCT/US2015/038110
           In some cases, a sub-population of seeds comprising the endophytic bacterial
   population is further selected on the basis of increased uniformity, for example, on the basis
   of uniformity of microbial population. For example, individual seeds of pools collected from
   individual cobs, individual plants, individual plots (representing plants inoculated on the
 5 same day) or individual fields can be tested for uniformity of microbial density, and only
   those pools meeting specifications (e.g., at least 80% of tested seeds have minimum density,
   as determined by quantitative methods described elsewhere) are combined to provide the
   agricultural seed sub-population.
           The methods described herein can also comprise a validating step. The validating step
 0 can entail, for example, growing some seeds collected from the inoculated plants into mature
   agricultural plants, and testing those individual plants for uniformity. Such validating step can
   be performed on individual seeds collected from cobs, individual plants, individual plots
   (representing plants inoculated on the same day) or individual fields, and tested as described
   above to identify pools meeting the required specifications.
 5 POPULATION OF PLANTS / AGRICULTURAL FIELDS
           A major focus of crop improvement efforts has been to select varieties with traits that
   give, in addition to the highest return, the greatest homogeneity and uniformity. While
   inbreeding can yield plants with substantial genetic identity, heterogeneity with respect to
   plant height, flowering time, and time to seed, remain impediments to obtaining a
 0 homogeneous field of plants. The inevitable plant-to-plant variability are caused by a
   multitude of factors, including uneven environmental conditions and management practices.
   Another possible source of variability can, in some cases, be due to the heterogeneity of the
   microbial population inhabit the plants. By providing endophytic bacterial populations onto
   seeds and seedlings, the resulting plants generated by germinating the seeds and seedlings
25 have a more consistent microbial composition, and thus are expected to yield a more uniform
   population of plants.
           Therefore,    in another aspect, the invention provides a substantially uniform
   population of plants. The population comprises at least 100 plants, for example, at least 300
   plants, at least 1,000 plants, at least 3,000 plants, at least 10,000 plants, at least 30,000 plants,
30 at least 100,000 plants or more. The plants are grown from the seeds comprising the
   endophytic bacterial population as described herein. The increased uniformity of the plants
   can be measured in a number of different ways.
                                                    35

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
            In one embodiment, there is an increased uniformity with respect to the microbes
   within the plant population. For example, in one embodiment, a substantial portion of the
   population of plants, for example at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least
   5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, at least 20%, at least
 5 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least
   90%, at least 95% or more of the seeds or plants in a population, contains a threshold number
   of the endophytic bacterial population. The threshold number can be at least 100 CFU, for
   example at least 300 CFU, at least 1,000 CFU, at least 3,000 CFU, at least 10,000 CFU, at
   least 30,000 CFU, at least 100,000 CFU or more, in the plant or a part of the plant.
 0 Alternatively, in a substantial portion of the population of plants, for example, in at least 1%,
   at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least
   9%, or at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at
   least 7 0%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% or more of the plants in the
   population, the endophytic bacterial population that is provided to the seed or seedling
 5 represents at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least
   7%, at least 8%, at least 9%, or at least 10%, least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least
   50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99%, or
   100% of the total microbe population in the plant/seed.
            In another embodiment, there is an increased uniformity with respect to a
 0 physiological parameter of the plants within the population. In some cases, there can be an
   increased uniformity in the height of the plants when compared with a population of
   reference agricultural plants grown under the same conditions. For example, there can be a
   reduction in the standard deviation in the height of the plants in the population of at least 1%,
   at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at least 8%, at least
25 9%, or at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at
   least 60% or more, when compared with a population of reference agricultural plants grown
   under the same conditions. In other cases, there can be a reduction in the standard deviation
   in the flowering time of the plants in the population of at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at
   least 4 %, at least 5%, at least 6 %, at least 7%, at least  8 %, at least 9%, or at least 10%, at
30 least 15%, at least 2 0%, at least 30%, at least 4 0%, at least 50%, at least 6 0% or more, when
   compared with a population of reference agricultural plants grown under the same conditions.
                                                    36

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   COMMODITY PLANT PRODUCT
            The present invention provides a commodity plant product, as well as methods for
   producing a commodity plant product, that is derived from a plant of the present invention.
   As used herein, a "commodity plant product" refers to any composition or product that is
 5 comprised of material derived from a plant, seed, plant cell, or plant part of the present
   invention. Commodity plant products may be sold to consumers and can be viable or
   nonviable. Nonviable commodity products include but are not limited to nonviable seeds and
   grains; processed seeds, seed parts, and plant parts; dehydrated plant tissue, frozen plant
   tissue, and processed plant tissue; seeds and plant parts processed for animal feed for
 0 terrestrial and/or aquatic animal consumption, oil, meal, flour, flakes, bran, fiber, paper, tea,
   coffee, silage, crushed of whole grain, and any other food for human or animal consumption;
   and biomasses and fuel products; and raw material in industry. Industrial uses of oils derived
   from the agricultural plants described herein include ingredients for paints, plastics, fibers,
   detergents, cosmetics, lubricants, and biodiesel fuel. Soybean oil may be split, inter
 5 esterified, sulfurized, epoxidized, polymerized, ethoxylated, or cleaved. Designing and
   producing soybean oil derivatives with improved functionality and improved oliochemistry is
   a rapidly growing field. The typical mixture of triglycerides is usually split and separated into
   pure fatty acids, which are then combined with petroleum-derived alcohols or acids, nitrogen,
   sulfonates, chlorine, or with fatty alcohols derived from fats and oils to produce the desired
 0 type of oil or fat. Commodity plant products also include industrial compounds, such as a
   wide variety of resins used in the formulation of adhesives, films, plastics, paints, coatings
   and foams.
            In some cases, commodity plant products derived from the plants, or using the
   methods of the present invention can be identified readily. In some cases, for example, the
25 presence of viable endophytic microbes can be detected using the methods described herein
   elsewhere. In other cases, particularly where there are no viable endophytic microbes, the
   commodity plant product may still contain at least a detectable amount of the specific and
   unique DNA corresponding to the microbes described herein. Any standard method of
   detection for polynucleotide molecules may be used, including methods of detection
30 disclosed herein.
            Throughout the specification, the word "comprise," or variations such as "comprises"
   or "comprising," will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of
   integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                                                  37

      WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
           Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to
  examples below, it is understood that various modifications can be made without departing
  from the spirit of the invention. For instance, while the particular examples below may
  illustrate the methods and embodiments described herein using a specific plant, the principles
5 in these examples may be applied to any agricultural crop. Therefore, it will be appreciated
  that the scope of this invention is encompassed by the embodiments of the inventions recited
  herein and the specification rather than the specific examples that are exemplified below. All
  cited patents and publications referred to in this application are herein incorporated by
  reference in their entirety.
0
                                                 38

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
                                            EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Phenotypic and physiological characterization of microbes.
           Bacterial strains from overnight cultures in tryptic soy broth were streaked on tryptic
   soy agar (TSA) plates and incubated at 30 0 C. After 24 h, the color and shape of colonies were
 5 noted. Cell motility and colony shape were observed under light microscope (Nikon, Japan).
   The pH limits for bacterial growth was determined by adjusting the pH of the growth media
   to values between 5 and 12 in triplicates. Bacterial growth on different salt concentrations
   was tested in TSA medium containing 1-6% NaCl. Furthermore, the ability of the microbes to
   grow in methanol/ethanol as sole carbon source was analyzed by replacing the glucose with
 0 either methanol or ethanol.
           Aggregate formation of bacterial strains can positively affect their dispersal and
   survival in the plant environment and adsorption to plant roots. The extent of aggregation
   formation was measured in six replicates following the method of Madi and Henis (1989)
   Plant Soil 115:89-98 (incorporated herein by reference) with some modifications. Aliquots of
 5 liquid culture containing aggregates were transferred to glass tubes and allowed to stand for
   30 min. Aggregates settled down to the bottom of each tubes, and the suspension was mostly
   composed free of cells. The turbidity of each suspension was measured at 540 nm (ODs) with
   a microplate reader (Synergy 5; BioTek Instrument Inc., Winooski, USA). Cultures were then
   dispersed with a tissue homogenizer for 1 min and the total turbidity (OD) was measured.
 0 The percentage of aggregation was estimated as follows:
                   % aggregation  = (ODt - ODs) x 100 / ODt
           Motility assays (swimming, swarming and twitching) were performed following the
   methods of Rashid and Kornberg (2000). Swim plates (LB media contained 0.3% agarose)
   were inoculated in triplicates with bacteria from an overnight culture on TSA agar plates
25 grown at 30 0C with a sterile toothpick. For swarming, plates (NB media contained 0.5% agar
   and glucose) were inoculated with a sterile toothpick. Twitch plates (LB broth containing 1%
   Difco granular agar) were stab inoculated with a sharp toothpick to the bottom of petri dish
   from an overnight grown culture in TSA agar plates.
           Biofilm formation was analyzed using overnight grown bacterial culture in 96 well
30 microtiter plates by staining with 1% crystal violet (CV) for 45 min. To quantify the amount
   of biofilm, CV was destained with 200 gl of 100% ethanol. The absorbance of 150 pl of the
   destained CV, which was transferred into a new microtiter plate was measured at 595 nm
                                                  39

    WO 2015/200852                                                      PCT/US2015/038110
(modified from Djordjevic et al. 2002, Appl Environ Microbiol 68:2950-2958, incorporated
herein by reference). The phenotypic characters of the strains are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Phenotypic characteristics of the strains:
Phenotypic and physiological characterization
  Colony
   color
 morphol
    ogy
   Gram       n.d.       n.d.    n.d.  n.d.     n.d.                +--
 reaction
Bacterial growth conditions*
Temperature
4 OC        n.d.      n.d.    n.d.    n.d.    n.d.     -++++
42 OC       n.d.      n.d.    n.d.    n.d.    n.d.     ----
NaCl
       2%   +         +       +       +       +        +         +       +       +      +
        6%  -         +        -      -       +        +         +       +        -     +
pH
          5 +         +       +       +       +        +         +       +       +      +
         12 +          -       -      +       +        +          -      +        -     +
Motility / chemotaxis!
Swimmi +              +        -      ++      ++       -          -      +        -     +
ng
Swarming               -       -+
g
Twitchin    +         +       -       +       +        -         +       +        -     +
OD (600     0.920.   0.59    05      0.57    0.950     0       0.59    0.95    0.57   0.950
nm)         04        0.02    0.08    0.0    .04      .04       0.02    0.08    0.08    .04
                                      8
Biofilm     0.230.    0.22    0.08    0.08    0.830    0.230     0.22    0.08    0.08   0.830
                                              40

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   (595        02         0.03    0.01     +0.0   .06       .02      0.03    0.01     0.04     .06
   nm)                                     4
   Aggrega     35.91+     26.07   32.61    36.3   40.22+    35.91+   26.07   32.61    36.38    40.22+
   te          2.57       +0.88   +2.13    8+1.   1.99      2.57     +0.88   +2.13    +1.48    1.99
   stability                               48
   (%)        II                       _     _     _      _      _     _      _     _      _       _
   Biochemical characterization
            Biochemical tests such as oxidase, catalase, gelatin hydrolysis and casein hydrolysis
   of the selected strains were performed. Oxidase and catalase activities were tested with 1%
 5 (w/v) tetramethyl-p-phenylene       diamine  and    3%   (v/v)  hydrogen peroxide      solution,
   respectively. Gelatin and casein hydrolysis was performed by streaking bacterial strains onto
   a TSA plates from the stock culture. After incubation, trichloroacetic acid (TCA) was applied
   to the plates and made observation immediately for a period of at least 4 min (Medina and
   Baresi 2007, J Microbiol Methods 69:391-393, incorporated herein by reference). A
 0 summary of the biochemical characteristics of the strains is shown below in Table 2:
   Table 2. Biochemical Characterization of Endophytic Bacteria
   Biochemical characterization*
   Catalase      +       +       +++++                                            +      +       +
   Oxidase       -        -       -+--                                    +       -      -       +
   Casein        -        -       -+-++                                           -      -
   Gelatin       -       +        -+++-                                           +      -
   Methanol      +-               -+-+-                                           -      +       +
   Ethanol       +
   Quantificationof auxin production
            Auxin production by bacterial isolates both in the presence and absence of L
15 tryptophan (L-TRP) was determined colormetrically and expressed as IAA equivalent
                                                 41

        WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
    (Sarwar et al. 1992, Plant Soil 147:207-215, incorporated herein by reference). Two days old
    bacterial cells grown (28 0 C at 180 rpm) in tryptic soy broth supplemented with 1% L-TRP
    solution were harvested by centrifugation (10, 000 g for 10 min). Three mL of the
    supernatants were mixed with 2 mL Salkowski's reagent (12 g L- FeCl 3 in 429 ml L-1
 5  H 2 SO 4 ). The mixture was incubated at room temperature for 30 min for colour development
    and absorbance at 535 nm was measured using spectrophotometer. Auxin concentration
    produced by bacterial isolates was determined using standard curves for IAA prepared from
    serial dilutions of 10-100 gg mL-1 .
    Table 3: Production of Indole Acetic Acid by Endophytic Bacteria
    Characteristics     Agrobacterium Pantoea Sphinogobium Pseudomonas Enterobacter
                        sp. (FA13)       sp.        sp. (FC42)        sp. (FB12)        sp. (FD17)
                                         (FF34)
    without L-          1.74 +0.18       10.33      4.89 +0.78        1.63 +0.65        7.54 +1.02
    TRP                                  0.35
    with L-TRP          16.13 +1.05      95.34      38.41 +1.78       7.26 +1.05        12.30 +0.98
 0
   1 ___ _          _ 1 __               +
                                         2.14    1                 1                 1
              As shown in Table 3 above, strains FA13, FF34, FC42, FB12 and FD17 were all
    shown to produce auxin (ranging from 1.63 to 10.33 gg ml-1 in the absence of L-tryptophan),
    and the level of auxin production was greatly enhanced by the presence of L-tryptophan in
    the growth medium (at least 7.26 gg ml-1).
 5  Assays for phosphorus solubilizationand siderophoreproduction
              Bacterial   strains  were evaluated   for their   ability   to solubilize    phosphates
    (organic/inorganic P). Aliquots (10 gL) of overnight bacterial growth culture in tryptic soy
    broth were spot inoculated onto NBRI-PBP (Mehta and Nautiyal 2001) and calcium/sodium
    phytate agar medium (Rosado et al. 1998). Solubilization of organic/inorganic phosphates
20  was detected by the formation of a clear zone around the bacterial growth spot. Phosphate
    solubilization activity was also determined by development of clear zone around bacterial
    growth on Pikovskaya agar medium (Pikovskaya               1948, Mikrobiologiya      17:362-370,
    incorporated herein by reference).       Bacterial isolates were assayed for siderophores
    production on the Chrome azurol S (CAS) agar medium described by Schwyn and Neilands
25  (1987),     Curr Microbiol 43:57-58 (incorporated herein by reference) as positive for
    siderophore production.
                                                   42

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   Assays for exopolysaccharide,NH and HCNproduction
           For exopolysaccharide (EPS) activity (qualitative), strains were grown on Weaver
   mineral media enriched with glucose and production of EPS was assessed visually (modified
   from Weaver et al. 1975, Arch Microbiol 105:207-216, incorporated herein by reference).
 5 The EPS production was monitored as floc formation (fluffy material) on the plates after 48 h
   of incubation at 28  2 0C. Strains were tested for the production of ammonia (NH 3) in
   peptone water as described by Cappuccino and Sherman (1992), Biochemical activities of
   microorganisms. In: Microbiology, A Laboratory Manual. The Benjamin / Cummings
   Publishing Co. California, USA, pp 125-178, incorporated herein by reference. The bacterial
 0 isolates were screened for the production of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) by inoculating King's
   B agar plates amended with 4.4 g L-1 glycine (Lorck 1948, Physiol Plant 1:142-146,
   incorporated herein by reference). Filter paper (Whatman no. 1) saturated with picrate
   solution (2% Na 2 CO 3 in 0.5% picric acid) was placed in the lid of a petri plate inoculated
   with bacterial isolates. The plates were incubated at 28  2 0 C for 5 days. HCN production
 5 was assessed by the colour change of yellow filter paper to reddish brown.
   Assays forpoly-hydroxybutyrate (PHB)and n-acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) production
           The bacterial isolates were tested for PHB production (qualitative) following the
   viable colony staining methods using Nile red and Sudan black B (Juan et al. 1998 Appl
   Environ Microbiol 64:4600-4602; Spiekermann et al. 1999, Arch Microbiol 171:73-80, each
 0 of which is incorporated by reference). The LB plates with overnight bacterial growth were
   flooded with 0.02% Sudan black B for 30 min and then washed with ethanol (96%) to
   remove excess strains from the colonies. The dark blue coloured colonies were taken as
   positive for PHB production. Similarly, LB plates amended with Nile red (0.5 gL mL-1 ) were
   exposed to UV light (312 nm) after appropriate bacterial growth to detect PHB production.
25 Colonies of PHA-accumulating strains showed fluoresce under ultraviolet light. The bacterial
   strains were tested for AHL production following the method modified from Cha et al.
   (1998), Mol Plant-Microbe Interact 11:1119-1129 (incorporated herein by reference). The
   LB plates containing 40 gg ml- 1 X-Gal were plated with reporter strains (A. tumefaciens
   NTL4.pZLR4). The LB plates were spot inoculated with 10 gL of bacterial culture and
30 incubated at 28  2 0 C for 24 h. Production of AHL activity is indicated by a diffuse blue zone
   surrounding the test spot of culture. Agrobacterium tumefaciens NTL1 (pTiC58AaccR) was
   used as positive control and plate without reporter strain was considered as negative control.
                                                   43

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   Table 4. Various Biochemical Properties of Endophytic Bacteria
                                                CLCACCAC
   P-solubilization (inorganic/organic P)
   Ca3(PO4)2                 -     ++    -        +++                  -       -      +-+
   CaHPO4                    -     ++             +
   Ca-phytate                -     ++    -        ++         +++      -        -      +          -     +
   Na-phytate                -     ++    -        ++         +++      -        -      +          -     +
   Exopolysaccharide         ++    -     +        -          +        -        -      -          -     +
   N 2-fixation             +      +     -        -          +        -        -      +
   HCN production            -     -     -        +          -        -        -      -
   NH 3 production          +      +     +        +          +        +       +       +          +     +
   Siderophore              +++    +     +        ++         +++      n.d.     -      n.d.       -     +
   production
   AHL                       -     -     -        +          -        -        -      +          -     +
   PHB                       -     +     -        +          +        +        -      +          -
            As shown above, the bacteria described herein exhibit varying degrees of phosphate
   utilization. For example, strains FF34, FB12, FD17, S6, and S10 were capable of hydrolyzing
   Ca 3 (PO 4 ) 2 , CaHPO 4, Ca-phytate and Na-phytate. These strains, therefore, may be effective
 5 for increasing phosphate          availability for host plants     under   conditions of limiting
   concentrations of soluble phosphate in the soil.
            Siderophores       are small, high-affinity     iron chelating  compounds      secreted by
   microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi and grasses. siderophores. They bind to the available
   form of iron Fe3 in the rhizosphere, thus making it unavailable to the phytopathogens and
10 protecting the plant health (Ahmad et al. 2008, Microbiol Res 163:173-181, incorporated
   herein by reference). Siderophores are known for mobilizing Fe and making it available to
   the plant. Several of the strains, including FA13, FF34, FC42, FB12, FD17 and S10 were
   found to produce significant levels of siderophore when tested in agar medium containing
   Chrom azurol S (CAS). Therefore, in one embodiment, the strains described above are
15 effective in increasing iron availability to the host plant.
                                                         44

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
            The ability of bacterial strains to utilize or metabolize different nitrogen sources was
   evaluated. Interestingly, four of the strains tested (FA13, FF34, FD17, and S6) were capable
   of growing in nitrogen-free medium, demonstrating their ability to fix nitrogen. Therefore, in
   one embodiment, these strains can be provided in an amount effective to increase nitrogen
 5 utilization in a host plant.
            Bacterial survival and colonization in the plant environment are necessary for plant
   growth and yield. Recently, Znfiiga and colleagues (2013), Mol Plant-Microbe Interact
   26:546-553 (incorporated herein by reference) described that the cell-to-cell communication
   (QS) system mediated by AHL is implicated in rhizosphere competence and colonization of
 0 Arabidopsis thaliana by B. phytofirmans PsJN. Motility, aggregate stability, and biofilm
   formation are important traits for root surface colonization (Danhorn and Fuqua 2007, Annu
   Rev Microbiol 61:401-422, incorporated herein by reference). Three strains (FB12, S6 and
   S1O) were found to produce AHL. It should be noted, however, that the bacteria described
   here may have other communication systems. Aggregation and biofilm formation were
 5 common traits in all tested strains. In the case of motility, six strains (FA13, FF34, FB12,
   FD17, S6 and S10) were positive for swimming, while FD17, S6 and S10 also showed
   swarming. Therefore, in one embodiment, the seeds are provided with an amount of these
   strains in an amount effective to produce detectable levels of AHL. In another embodiment,
   seeds of an agricultural plant are provided with an amount of the bacterial endophyte
 0 population effective to form biofilms.
            Bacteria   were tested for production of exopolysaccharide             (EPS)  and poly
   hydroxybutyrate (PHB). Bacterial EPS and PHB have been shown to provide protection from
   such environmental insults as desiccation, predation, and the effects of antibiotics (Gasser et
   al. 2009, FEMS Microbiol Ecol 70:142-150; Staudt et al. 2012, Arch Microbiol 194:197
25 206, each of which is incorporated by reference). They can also contribute to bacterial
   aggregation, surface attachment, and plant-microbe symbiosis (Laus et al. 2005, Mol Plant
   Microbe Interact 18:533-538, incorporated herein by reference). Five strains (FF34, FB12,
   FD17, S2 and S6) showed PHB production, while FA13, FC42, FD17 and S1O were found to
   produce EPS. Therefore, in another embodiment, seeds of an agricultural plant are provided
30 with an amount of the bacterial endophyte population effective to improve desiccation
   tolerance in the host plant.
                                                     45

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
           Volatile compounds such as ammonia and HCN produced by a number of
   rhizobacteria were reported to play an important role in biocontrol (Brimecombe et al. 2001,
   In: Pinton R, Varanini Z, Nannipieri P (Eds.) The Rhizosphere, Marcel Dekker, New York,
   pp 95-140, incorporated herein by reference). Production of ammonia was commonly
 5 detected in all selected isolates. In contrast, only Pseudomonas sp. strain FB12 was able to
   produce HCN. Among the strains tested, only FB12 was able to produce HCN.
   Enzyme hydrolyzing activities
           Bacterial hydrolyzing activities due to amylase, cellulase, chitinase, hemolytic, lipase,
   pectinase, protease and xylanase were screened on diagnostic plates after incubation at 28 0 C.
 0 Amylase activity was determined on agar plates following the protocol Minnist6 and
   Higgblom (2006), Syst Appl Microbiol 29:229-243, incorporated herein by reference.
   Formation of opaque halo around colonies was used as an indication of lipase activity.
   Cellulase and xylanase activities were assayed on plates containing (per liter) 5 g of
   carboxymethyl cellulose or birch wood xylan, 1 g of peptone and 1 g of yeast extract. After
 5 10 days of incubation, the plates were flooded with gram's iodine staining and washing with
   IM NaCl to visualize the halo zone around the bacterial growth (modified from Teather and
   Wood 1982, Appl Environ Microbiol 43:777-780, incorporated herein by reference).
   Chitinase activity of the isolates was determined as zones of clearing around colonies
   following the method of Chernin et al. (1998) J Bacteriol 180:4435-4441 (incorporated
 0 herein by rereference). Hemolytic activity was determined by streaking bacterial isolates onto
   Cloumbia 5% sheep blood agar plates. Protease activity was determined using 1% skimmed
   milk agar plates, while lipase activity was determined on peptone agar medium. Formation of
   halo zone around colonies was used as indication of activity (Smibert and Krieg 1994, In:
   Gerhardt P, Murray R, Wood W, Krieg N (Eds) Methods for General and Molecular
25 Bacteriology, ASM Press, Washington, DC, pp 615-640, incorporated herein by reference).
   Pectinase activity was determined on nutrient agar supplemented with 5 g L-1 pectin. After 1
   week of incubation, plates were flooded with 2% hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide
   solution for 30 min. The plates were washed with IM NaCl to visualize the halo zone around
   the bacterial growth (Mateos         et al.  1992, Appl Environ Microbiol 58:1816-1822,
30 incorporated herein by reference).
                                                   46

      WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   Table 5. Enzyme Activities from Endophytic Bacteria
                         40
   Enzyme hydrolyzing activity
   Amylase-                  -      -----                                        --                 +
   Cellulase        +        -      +         ++
   Chitinase         -       -      -         ++-                        +       --
   Hemolytic        +       +       -         ++                n.d.     n.d.   n.d.      n.d.      n.d.
   Lipase           ++      +       +         ++        +       -        +      +         +         +
   Pectinase         -      +       -     +--                                   +         -+
   Phosphatase       -      ++      -         ++                -- +            +-                  +
   Protease          -       -      ---                         +        +--
   Xylanase         +        -      ++        +        ++       +        +      +         -+
           All strains showed lipase activity, while only S 10 produced amnylase activity. S2 and
   S4 produced significant protease activity. Pectinase and phosphatase activity was observed
 5 with strains FF34, FB12, FD17, S6 and S10. All strains were positive for cellulase and/or
   xylanase except strains FF34 and S9. Chitinase was produced by FB12, FD17 and S4 strains,
   while all strains tested except for FC42 showed hemnolytic activity.
   Antagonistic activities againstplantpathogenic bacteria,fungi and oomycetes
           The antagonistic activities of bacterial isolates were screened against plant pathogenic
10 bacteria (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Pseudomonas syringae, Streptococcus pneumoniae),
   fungi (Fusariumcaulimons, Fusariumgraminarium,Fusarium oxysporum, Fusarium solani,
   Rhizoctonia solani, Thielaviopsis basicola) and           oomycetes   (Phytophthora infestans,
   Phytophthora citricola, Phytophthora cominarum). For antibacterial assays, the bacterial
   isolates and pathogen were cultivated in tryptic soy broth at 300C for 24 h. The bacterial
15 isolates were spot-inoculated (10 pL aliquots) on TSA plates pre-seeded with 100 pL tested
   pathogen. The plates were incubated at 280C for 48 h and clear zones of inhibition were
   recorded.
                                                   47

     WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
          Antagonistic activity of the bacterial isolates against fungi and oomycetes was tasted
  by the dual culture technique on potato dextrose agar (PDA) and yeast malt agar (YMA)
  media (Dennis and Webster 1971, Trans Brit Mycol Soc 57:25-39, incorporated herein by
  reference). A small disk (5 mm) of target fungus/oomycetes was placed in the center of petri
5 dishes of both media. Aliquots of 10 gL of overnight bacterial cultures grown in tryptic soy
  broth were spotted 2 cm away from the center. Plates were incubated for 14 days at 24 0 C and
  zones of inhibition were scored.
  Table 6. Antimicrobial Activity by Endophytic Bacteria
  Anti-bacterial activity
  A.                -      --               ++       +         -+              --                +
  tumefaciens
  E. coli           n.d.  n.d.      n.d.    n.d.     n.d.     +         +      --                +
  P. syringae       -      -        -       +++      +         -        +      --                +
  S. aureus         -      -        -       +         -       +         +      +        +        +
  Anti-fungal activity
  F. caulimons      ++    +         +       ++          +     -         +      +        -        +
  F.                +     +         +       +        ++                        +        +        +
  graminarium
  F. oxysporum      +     ++        +       ++       ++       +         +      +        -
  F. solani         ++    +         ++      ++       +++      -         +      -        -        +
  R. solani         +     +         +       ++       ++       +         +      +        +        +
  T. basicola       +     +         +       ++       +                  +      +        -        +
  Anti-oomycete activity
  P. infestans      +     +         +       ++       ++       -         -      +        -
  P. citricola      +     +         +       ++       +++       -               +        +        +
  P. cominarum +          +         +       ++       ++       -         +      +        +        +
                                                  48

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   Auxin, acetoin, and siderophore assaysfor S4, S9 and SJO
           For the auxin assay, 1 ptl of overnight-grown cultures of endophytic bacterial strains
   were inoculated into 750 [tl of R2A broth supplemented with L-TRP (5 mM) in 2-mL 96 well
   culture plates. The plates were sealed with a breathable membrane and incubated at 23        C
 5 with constant shaking at 200 rpm for 4 days. After 4 days, 100 gL of each culture was
   transferred to a 96 well plate. 25 gL of Salkowski reagent (1 mL of FeCl3 0.5 M solution to
   50 mL of 35% HClO4) was added into each well and the plates were incubated in the dark for
   30 minutes before taking picture and measuring 540 nm obsorption using the SpectraMax M5
   plate reader (Molecular Devices).
 0         For acetoin measurements, microbial strains were cultured as described above in R2A
   broth supplemented with 5% glucose. After 4 days, 100 gL of each culture was transferred to
   a 96 well plate and mixed with 25 gL Barritt's Reagents (See Example 3) and 525 nm
   absorption was measured.
           For siderophore measurements, microbial strains were cultured as described above in
 5 R2A broth. After 3 days of incubation at 28'C without shaking, to each well was added 100
   ul of O-CAS preparation without gelling agent [Perez-Miranda et al. (2007), J Microbiol
   Methods 70: 127-131, incorporated herein by reference]. Again using the cleaned glassware,
   1 liter of O-CAS overlay was made by mixing 60.5 mg of Chrome azurol S (CAS), 72.9 mg
   of hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (HDTMA), 30.24 g of finely crushed Piperazine
 0 1,4-bis-2-ethanesulfonic acid (PIPES) with 10 ml of 1 mM FeCl3-6H20 in 10 mM HCl
   solvent. The PIPES had to be finely powdered and mixed gently with stirring (not shaking) to
   avoid producing bubbles, until a dark blue colour was achieved. 15 minutes after adding the
   reagent to each well, color change was scored by looking for purple halos (catechol type
   siderophores) or orange colonies (hydroxamate siderophores) relative to the deep blue of the
25 O-Cas.
           The results of the auxin, acetoin and siderophore assays are presented in Table 7.
   Table 7: Production of auxin, acetoin and siderophore by endophytic bacteria
                      S4             S9          S1O
       auxin          ++            ++             +
      acetoin          -
   siderophore        ++            ++
                                                  49

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   Substrate use by endophytic bacteriaS4, S9 and S10
           In addition to determining whether the bacterial strains produce auxin, acetoin, and
   siderophores, the ability of the various strains to grow on various substrates was determined.
   Liquid cultures of bacteria were first sonicated to achieve homogeneity. 1 mL culture of each
 5 strain was harvested by centrifugation for 10 minutes at 4500 RPM and subsequently washed
   three times with sterile distilled water to remove any traces of residual media. Bacterial
   samples were resuspended in sterile distilled water to a final OD590 of 0.2. Measurements of
   absorbance were taken using a SpectraMax M microplate reader (Molecular Devices,
   Sunnyvale, CA).
 0         Sole carbon substrate assays were done using BIOLOG Phenotype MicroArray (PM)
   1 and 2A MicroPlates (Hayward, CA). An aliquot of each bacterial cell culture (2.32 mL)
   were inoculated into 20 mL sterile IF-0a GN/GP Base inoculating fluid (IF-0), 0.24 mL 1OOX
   Dye F obtained from BIOLOG, and brought to a final volume of 24 mL with sterile distilled
   water. Negative control PM1 and PM2A assays were also made similarly minus bacterial
 5 cells to detect abiotic reactions. An aliquot of fungal culture (0.05 mL) of each strain were
   inoculated into 23.95 mL FF-IF medium obtained from BIOLOG. Bacterial cell suspensions
   were stirred in order to achieve uniformity. One hundred microliters of the bacterial cell
   suspension was added per well using a multichannel pipettor to the 96-well BIOLOG PM1
   and PM2A MicroPlates that each contained 95 carbon sources and one water-only (negative
 0 control) well.
           MicroPlates were sealed in paper surgical tape (Dynarex, Orangeburg, NY) to prevent
   plate edge effects, and incubated stationary at 24'C in an enclosed container for 70 hours.
   Absorbance at 590 nm was measured for all MicroPlates at the end of the incubation period
   to determine carbon substrate utilization for each strain and normalized relative to the
25 negative control (water only) well of each plate (Garland and Mills, 1991; Barua et al., 2010;
   Siemens et al., 2012; Blumenstein et al., 2015). The bacterial assays were also calibrated
   against the negative control (no cells) PM1 and PM2A MicroPlates data to correct for any
   biases introduced by media on the colorimetric analysis (Borglin et al., 2012). Corrected
   absorbance values that were negative were considered as zero for subsequent analysis
30 (Garland and Mills, 1991; Blumenstein et al., 2015) and a threshold value of 0.1 and above
   was used to indicate the ability of a particular bacterial strain to use a given carbon substrate
   (Barua et al., 2010; Blumenstein et al., 2015). Additionally, bacterial MicroPlates were
   visually examined for the irreversible formation of violet color in wells indicating the
                                                   50

     WO 2015/200852                                                       PCT/US2015/038110
  reduction of the tetrazolium redox dye to formazan that result from cell respiration (Garland
  and Mills, 1991).
          The results of these assays are shown in Tables 8 (BIOLOG PM 1 MicroPlates) and 9
  (BIOLOG PM2A MicroPlates).
5 Table 8: Substrate utilization of certain endophytic strains as determined by BIOLOG
  PM1 MicroPlates.
                    substrate                   SYM260     SYM290     SYM292
  D-Serine                                         NO         NO        YES
  D-Glucose-6-Phosphate                            NO         NO        NO
  L-Asparagine                                    YES         NO        NO
  L-glutamine                                      NO         NO        NO
  Glycyl-L-Aspartic acid                           NO         NO        NO
  Glycyl-L-Glutamic acid                          YES         NO        NO
  Glycyl-L-Proline                                 NO         NO        NO
  L-Arabinose                                     YES        YES        YES
  D-Sorbitol                                       NO         NO        NO
  D-Galactonic acid-y-lactone                      NO         NO        NO
  D-Aspartic acid                                  NO         NO        NO
  m-Tartaric acid                                  NO         NO        NO
  Citric acid                                     YES         NO        YES
  Tricarballylic acid                              NO         NO        NO
  p-Hydroxy Phenyl acetic acid                     NO         NO        NO
  N-Acetyl-D-Glucosamine                           NO        YES        YES
  Glycerol                                        YES        YES        YES
  D-L-Malic acid                                  YES        YES        YES
  D-Glucosaminic acid                              NO         NO        NO
  D-Glucose-1-Phosphate                            NO         NO        NO
  m-Inositol                                      YES         NO        YES
  L-Serine                                        YES         NO        NO
  m-Hydroxy Phenyl Acetic acid                     NO         NO        NO
  D-Saccharic acid                                YES         NO        YES
  L-Fucose                                         NO        YES        NO
  D-Ribose                                         NO        YES        YES
  1,2-Propanediol                                 YES        YES        NO
  D-Fructose-6-Phosphate                           NO         NO        NO
  D-Threonine                                      NO        YES        NO
  L-Threonine                                     YES        YES        NO
  Tyramine                                         NO         NO        YES
  Succinic acid                                    NO         NO        NO
  D-Glucuronic acid                                NO         NO        NO
  Tween 20                                        YES        YES        NO
  Tween 40                                        YES        YES        NO
  Tween 80                                        YES        YES        NO
                                                51

   WO 2015/200852                             PCT/US2015/038110
Fumaric acid                         YES YES YES
L-Alanine                            YES YES YES
D-Psicose                            NO  NO  NO
D-Galactose                          NO  YES YES
D-Gluconic acid                      YES YES YES
L-Rhamnose                           NO  YES YES
a-Keto-Glutaric acid                 YES NO  YES
a-Hydroxy Glutaric acid-y-lactone    YES NO  NO
Bromo succinic acid                  YES NO  YES
L-Alanyl-Glycine                     YES YES YES
L-Lyxose                             NO  NO  NO
L-Aspartic acid                      YES NO  YES
D-L-a-Glycerol phosphate             YES NO  NO
D-Fructose                           NO  YES YES
a-Keto-Butyric acid                  NO  NO  NO
a-Hydroxy Butyric acid               YES YES NO
Propionic acid                       YES YES YES
Acetoacetic acid                     YES YES YES
Glucuronamide                        NO  YES NO
L-Proline                            YES NO  YES
D-Xylose                             YES YES YES
Acetic acid                          YES YES YES
a-Methyl-D-Galactoside               NO  YES YES
B-Methyl-D-glucoside                 YES YES YES
Mucic acid                           YES NO  YES
N-acetyl- B-D-Mannosamine            YES YES YES
Pyruvic acid                         YES YES YES
D-Alanine                            NO  YES NO
L-Lactic acid                        YES NO  YES
a-D-Glucose                          NO  YES YES
a-D-Lactose                          NO  YES YES
Adonitol                             NO  NO  NO
Glycolic acid                        YES NO  NO
Mono Methyl Succinate                YES YES YES
L-Galactonic-acid-y-lactone          YES YES YES
D-Trehalose                          NO  YES YES
Formic acid                          YES NO  YES
Maltose                              YES YES YES
Lactulose                            NO  YES YES
Maltotriose                          YES YES YES
Glyoxylic acid                       YES NO  YES
Methyl Pyruvate                      YES YES YES
D-Galacturonic acid                  YES NO  YES
D-Mannose                            NO  NO  YES
D-Mannitol                           YES YES YES
D-Melibiose                          NO  YES YES
                                  52

   WO 2015/200852                                                     PCT/US2015/038110
Sucrose                                         NO       YES         YES
2-Deoxy adenosine                               YES       NO         YES
D-Cellobiose                                    YES      YES         YES
D-Malic acid                                    YES       NO         YES
Phenylethyl-amine                               NO        NO         NO
Dulcitol                                        NO       YES         NO
L-Glutamic acid                                 NO        NO         NO
Thymidine                                       YES      YES         YES
Uridine                                         YES      YES         YES
Adenosine                                       YES      YES         YES
Inosine                                         NO        NO         YES
L-Malic acid                                    YES       NO         YES
Table 9: Substrate utilization of certain endophytic strains as determined by BIOLOG
PM2A MicroPlates.
                 substrate                   SYM260    SYM290      SYM292
Negative control                                N/A       N/A        N/A
N-acetyl-D-Galactosamine                        NO        NO         NO
Gentiobiose                                     YES      YES         YES
D-Raffinose                                     YES      YES         YES
Capric acid                                     NO        NO         NO
D-lactic acid methyl ester                      NO        NO         NO
Acetamide                                       NO        NO         NO
L-Omithine                                      YES       NO         NO
Chondrointin sulfate C                          YES       NO         NO
N-acetyl-neuraminic acid                        NO        NO         NO
L-glucose                                       NO        NO         NO
Salicin                                         YES      YES         YES
Caproic acid                                    YES       NO         YES
Malonic acid                                    YES       NO         NO
L-Alaninamide                                   NO       YES         NO
L-Phenylalanine                                 YES       NO         NO
a-Cyclodextrin                                  NO       YES         YES
B-D-allose                                      NO        NO         YES
Lactitol                                        NO       YES         YES
Sedoheptulosan                                  NO        NO         NO
Citraconic acid                                 NO        NO         NO
Melibionic acid                                 YES       NO         NO
N-Acetyl-L-Glutamic acid                        YES       NO         YES
L-Pyroglutamic acid                             YES       NO         YES
B-Cyclodextrin                                  NO       YES         YES
Amygdalin                                       NO       YES         YES
D-Melezitose                                    NO       YES         YES
L-Sorbose                                       NO        NO         NO
Citramalic acid                                 YES       NO         YES
Oxalic acid                                     NO        NO         NO
                                             53

   WO 2015/200852                      PCT/US2015/038110
L-Arginine                    YES NO  NO
L-Valine                      YES NO  YES
a-Cyclodextrin                NO  YES YES
D-arabinose                   NO  YES YES
Maltitol                      NO  YES YES
Stachyose                     YES YES YES
D-Glucosamine                 YES YES YES
Oxalomalic acid               YES YES YES
Glycine                       NO  NO  NO
D,L-Camitine                  NO  NO  NO
Dextrin                       YES YES YES
D-arabitol                    NO  NO  YES
a-Methyl-D-Glucoside          NO  YES YES
D-Tagatose                    NO  YES NO
2-Hydroxy benzoic acid        NO  NO  NO
Quinic acid                   NO  NO  NO
L-Histidine                   YES YES NO
Sec-Butylamine                NO  NO  NO
Gelatin                       YES YES YES
L-arabitol                    NO  NO  NO
B-Methyl-D-Galactoside        NO  YES YES
Turanose                      NO  YES YES
4-Hydroxy benzoic acid        NO  NO  NO
D-Ribono- 1,4-Lactone         NO  NO  NO
L-Homoserine                  NO  NO  NO
D,L-Octopamine                NO  NO  NO
Glycogen                      YES YES YES
Arbutin                       NO  YES YES
3-Methyl Glucose              NO  NO  YES
Xylitol                       NO  NO  YES
B-Hydroxy butyric acid        YES NO  NO
Sebacic acid                  YES NO  NO
Hydroxy-L-Proline             YES NO  YES
Putrescine                    YES NO  NO
Inulin                        YES YES YES
2-Deoxy-D-Ribose              NO  NO  YES
B-Methyl-D-Glucuronic acid    NO  NO  YES
N-Acetyl-D-glucosaminitol     NO  NO  NO
y-Hydroxy butyric acid        YES NO  NO
Sorbic acid                   NO  NO  NO
L-Isoleucine                  YES NO  YES
Dihydroxy acetone             NO  NO  YES
Laminarin                     NO  YES YES
i-Erythritol                  NO  NO  NO
a-Methyl-D-Mannoside          NO  NO  NO
y-amino butyric acid          YES NO  NO
                           54

       WO 2015/200852                                                       PCT/US2015/038110
   a-Keto-valeric acid                              YES         NO         NO
   Succinamic acid                                   NO         NO         NO
   L-Leucine                                         NO         NO         YES
   2,3-Butanediol                                   YES         NO         NO
   Mannan                                            NO         NO         NO
   D-Fucose                                          NO         NO         NO
   B-Methyl-D-Xyloside                               NO         YES        YES
   d-amino valeric acid                             YES         NO         NO
   Itaconic acid                                    YES         NO         YES
   D-Tartaric acid                                   NO         NO         NO
   L-Lysine                                         YES         NO         NO
   2,3-Butanone                                      NO         NO         NO
   Pectin                                            NO         YES        YES
   3-0-B-D-Galactopyranosyl-D-arabinose              NO         NO         YES
   Palatinose                                        NO         YES        YES
   Butyric acid                                     YES         NO         NO
   5-Keto-D-Gluconic acid                            NO         NO         NO
   L-Tartaric acid                                   NO         NO         NO
   L-Methionine                                      NO         NO         NO
   Example 2: Effect of endophytic strains on maize germination
           Inoculants of the selected strains were prepared in 50 mL tryptic soy broth in 100 mL
   Erlenmeyer flasks and incubated at 28  2 0C for 48 h in the orbital shaking incubator (VWR
   International, GmbH) at 180 r min 1 . The optical density of the broth was adjusted to 0.5
 5 measured at 600 nm using spectrophotometer (Gene Quant Pro, Gemini BV, The
   Netherlands) to obtain a uniform population of bacteria (108 - 109 colony-forming units
   (CFU) mL-) in the broth at the time of inoculation. More scientifically, harvested bacterial
   cells could be resuspended in the phosphate buffered saline. The inoculum density adjusts
   using a spectrophotometer to achieve population density (Pillay and Nowak 1997, Can J
10 Microbiol 43:354-361, incorporated herein by reference).
   Maize seeds were surface-sterilized with 70% ethanol (3 min), treated with 5% NaOHCl for 5
   min, and followed by washing 3 times with sterile distilled water (1 min each time). The
   efficacy of surface sterilization was checked by plating seed, and aliquots of the final rinse
   onto LB plates. Samples were considered to be successfully sterilized when no colonies were
15 observed on the LB plates after inoculation for 3 days at 28 0 C. Surface-disinfected seeds of
   different maize cultivars (Helmi, Morignon, Pelicon, Peso and Cesor) were immersed in the
   bacterial suspensions for 30 min. The bacterized seeds were deposited onto soft water-agar
   plates (0.8%, w/v agar) and plates were placed in the dark at room temperature (24  20 C).
                                                  55

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   After 96 hrs the percentage of germinated seeds was scored. Surface-sterilized seeds, but not
   bacterized (treated in tryptic soy broth), served as the germination control.
            Inoculation of maize seeds with endophytic bacteria increased the germination rate of
   all cultivars by 20-40% compared to the un-inoculated control. Maximum increase was
 5 observed by inoculation with strain FD17 (40%) in maize cv. Morignon followed by strains
   FF34, FA13, FB12 and FC42 (data not shown).
   In other experiments, seeds of different cultivars of Maize (Palazzo & die Samba), and
   Tomato (Red Pear and Gartenfreund) were used to test for promotion of germination. The
   results, provided below in Table 10, show that virtually all strains show a marked increase in
 0 germination rates. For maize, Palazzo seeds inoculated with the strains FA13, FF34, S2, S6,
   S9 and S10 show greater than 90% germination after four days, as did die Samba seeds
   inoculated with FF34 and S9 seeds. For tomato, Red Pear seeds inoculated with the strains
   FB12, FF34, S6 and S10 showed 90% or greater germination rate after 12 days.
   Table 10. Germination rate of maize and tomato seeds inoculated with endophytes
   Strain                    Maize Germination Rate (4 Days)         Tomato Germination Rate (12 days)
                         Maize "Palazzo"             Maize "die        Tomato "Red              Tomato
                                                         Samba"                Pear"    "Gartenfreund"
   Neg. control                      73.3%                73.3%               33.3%              50.0%
   FA13                             100.0%                86.7%               83.3%              60.0%
   FB12                              83.3%                76.7%               96.7%              53.3%
   FC42                              86.7%                86.7%               76.7%              80.0%
   FD17                              76.7%                66.7%               43.3%              46.7%
   FF34                              93.3%                93.3%               96.7%              50.0%
   S2                                93.3%                70.0%               70.0%              60.0%
   S4                                70.0%                86.7%               76.7%              66.7%
   S6                                90.0%                80.0%              100.0%              70.0%
   S9                                96.7%                96.7%               60.0%              53.3%
   S1O                               93.3%                80.0%               90.0%              76.7%_
[5
   Example 3: In vitro screening of efficient strains on maize plants
            A growth chamber experiment was conducted on maize to screen the selected strains
   for their growth promoting activity under gnotobiotic conditions. We used specially designed
   glass tubes with beaded rim (Duran group, DURAN GmbH, Mainz, Germany) for the
20 experiment. The glass tubes were covered with lid to generate fully axenic conditions (no
   exposure to any environmental factors). Bacterial inoculant production and seed treatment
   were done as described above. As control, seeds were treated with sterilized tryptic soy broth.
                                                   56

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   Treated seeds were placed onto water-agar plates for germination. After 5 days, germinated
   seedlings (3-5 cm long) were transferred in the sterilized glass tubes containing sterilized 20
   ml MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium (Duchefa Biochemie, The Netherlands) (4.8 g L-)
   and placed at 25  2 0C set at a 16 h light and 8 h dark period, with a light intensity of 350
 5 gmol    m-2 s-1. Data regarding shoot / root length and biomass were recorded after 24 days.
   Colonization of inoculant strains was scored by re-isolation of endophytes. One g of plant
   shoot was homogenized with a pestle and mortar in 4 ml of 0.9% (w/v) NaCl solution. The
   number of cultivable endophytes in maize shoot, expressed in CFU per gram (fresh weight),
   was determined by spreading serial dilution up to 10-4 (0.1 mL) of homogenized surface
 0 sterilized plant material onto TSA (DIFCO Laboratories, Detroit, Michigan) agar medium.
   Four replicates for each treatment were spread on the agar plates and incubated for 5 days at
   28'C. Twenty colonies per treatment were randomly selected and their identity with the
   inoculant strain was confirmed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis
   of the 16S-23S rRNA intergenic spacer (IGS) region (Reiter et al. 2001, Appl Environ
 5 Microbiol 68:2261-2268, incorporated herein by reference).
            All strains significantly increased the seedling growth compared to the control. As
   shown in Figures 1A-IC, all strains significantly promoted biomass production, with
   increases in both root, shoot or overall biomass. Though responses were variable, the strains
   generally increased root and shoot length in all three cultivars of maize tested.
 0          Next, colonization of plants was tested for all bacterial strains. As shown in Table 11,
   strains FA13, FF34, FC42, FB12 and FD17 successfully colonized corn plants, showing
   successful colonization of the various strains, as detected in the shoot tissue of various
   cultivars of maize. The amount of detectable bacteria in the shoot tissue varied, ranging from
   1.58 x 104 in FB12-inoculated Helmi cultivar, to 1.83 x 107 CFU found in Peso cultivars
25 inoculated with FF34. Therefore, the microbes described herein, when contacted with seeds
   of plants, are capable of colonizing the plant as detectable, in this case, in the shoot tissue.
   Furthermore, colonization of Kolea, Mazurka and DaSilvie cultivars of maize by strains S2,
   S4, S6, S9 and S1O was confirmed by isolating bacterial cells from homogenates of surface
   sterilized shoot tissue of plants grown from inoculated seeds on tryptic soy agar plates for
30 two days on 28'C and testing the identity of colonies with IGS region sequencing to confirm
   the presence of the microbe. S2, S4, S6, S9 and S10 strains were successfully recovered from
   the tissues of these cultivars (data not shown).
                                                   57

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   Table 11. Colonization of Maize Plants by Endophytic Bacteria
   Strains           Helmi           Peso            Pelicon           Morignon         Cesor
   FA13              1.95 x 105      1.16 x 107       1.2 x 104        1.21 x 106       3.31 x 106
   FF34              2.66 x10 6      1.83 x10 7       1.21 x 105       4.13 x10 6       9.1 x 10
   FC42              4.63 x 105      1.37 x 106       2.00 x 104       8.24 x 106       1.07 x 105
   FB12              1.58 x 104      1.94 x 107       1.12 x 105       1.46 x 106       9.38 x 105
   FD17              1.92 x 106      2.60 x 107       1.44 x 107       2.93 x 107       1.73 x 106
   Stomatal Conductance and PhotosynthesisRates
            Maize    plants inoculated   with the strains described        herein  were tested for
 5 photosynthesis and stomatal conductance. As shown in Figure 2, maize plants inoculated with
   the strains display an increase in stomatal conductance when compared with uninoculated
   controls (ranging from a 36% to 49% increase), with S2, S6, S9 strains displaying the highest
   level of conductance. Therefore, there is an appreciable increase in stomatal conductance
   conferred by the bacterial of the present invention.
 0          Strain-inoculated maize plants were also tested for photosynthetic rates. As shown in
   Figure 3, all strains conferred increased photosynthesis rates when compared with control
   plants in all three maize cultivars tested (DaSilvie, Mazurka, and Kolea cultivars; average of
   three cultivars shown), with an increase ranging from 17% over controls (for S9 and S1O
   strains) to over 23% over controls (S6 strain). Therefore, the endophytic bacterial strains
 5 described above confer increased photosynthesis rates on the host plants.
   Example 4: Net-house experiment
            On the basis of the results from tests performed under axenic conditions in Example
   3, strain FD17 was selected for further evaluation in a pot trial, in which plants were grown in
   large containers exposed to natural environmental conditions.
20 Maize plants were grown in soil collected from agricultural (maize) fields in Fischamend,
   Lower Austria, Austria. The soil was silty clay loam and had the following characteristics:
   12% sand, 610% silt, 27% clay, pH 6.5, 3.3% total carbon, 0.18% total nitrogen, 0.13 mg g
   available phosphorus, 0.066 mg g- 1 extractable potassium.
            Surface-disinfected seeds of two maize cultivars (Morignon and Peso) were immersed
25 in bacterial suspension (prepared as described above) for 1 h. For the un-inoculated control,
   seeds were treated with sterilized tryptic soy broth. Seeds were sown in a plastic tray (wiped
                                                   58

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   with ethanol) and 12 days old seedlings were transferred into containers filled with 45 kg soil
   (2 plants in each container) and placed in a net-house and exposed to natural environmental
   conditions.
            Weather conditions i.e. precipitation, temperature and relative humidity were recorded
 5 by 'Zentralanstalt fdr Meteorologie und Geodynamik' (ZAMG) during the crop growth
   period and described in Figures 1A-iC. There were three replicates and the pots were
   arranged in a completely randomized design. Recommended dose of NPK fertilizers (160
   100-60 kg ha-1) were applied in each container and tap water was applied to the container for
   irrigation whenever needed.
 0 Data of photochemical efficiency of PSII was recorded at flowering stage using handy PEA
   (Hansatech Instruments Ltd. England) in the mid of July where day time temperature varied
   from 30-35 0 C. The PSII efficiency in terms of Fv/Fm was calculated from the data. Growth
   and yield contributing parameters were recorded at maturity. The plants were harvested 140
   days after planting. Figure 4 shows the PS II efficiency of maize plants inoculated with the
 5 bacterial endophyte populations described herein.
            Maize plants inoculated with the bacterial endophytes S2, S4, S6, S9, S10 and FD 17
   were tested for increased leaf area. As shown in Figure 5, and in Table 12, all the tested
   strains increased the leaf area significantly over the controls.
            Similarly, maize plants inoculated with the strains showed a dramatic increase in
 0 chlorophyll content (Figure 6) over control plants, with the highest levels found in S6
   inoculated plants.
            Table 12 below shows the effect of FD17 inoculation on the physiology, growth
   parameters and yield of two maize cultivars grown in field soil and exposed to natural
   climatic conditions. Inoculation with strain FD17 led to a significant increase in leaf area of
25 both cultivars (20% and 13%, respectively). Similarly, biomass (leaf dry weight) was
   increased by 27% and 23% in the cultivars Peso and Morignon, respectively, as compared to
   the control. In addition, root and plant dry biomass and plant height were significantly
   enhanced, as was the average cob weight (35% and 42% increase in Peso and Morignon,
   respectively, as compared to control). The FD17 strain also significantly affected other plant
30 physiological characteristics: for example, there was a significant increase in chlorophyll
   fluorescence (up to a 9% in the Peso cultivar) and a shortened time before onset of flowering
   (up to 10 days in cultivar Peso).
                                                    59

       WO 2015/200852                                                        PCT/US2015/038110
   Table 12: Effect of inoculation with endophytic strain FD17 on physiology, growth
   parameters and yield of two maize cultivars grown in pots in field soil and exposed to
   natural climatic conditions (net house experiment)
   Parameters / Treatment      Peso                               Morignon
                               Un-            Inoculated with     Un-            Inoculated with
                               inoculated     FD17                inoculated     FD17
   Fv/Fm                       0.69           0.75                0.73           0.79
   Time to onset of            65.33          55                  70.67          66.33
   flowering (days)
   Plant height (cm)            192.33        208                  196.69        213.68
   No. of leaves lant           12.33          14                  13.17         14.67
   Leaf area (cm)              494.26         556.27              512.39         617.11
   Leaf dry weight (g)         22.21          28.16               28.09          34.56
   Plant dry biomass (g)        114.18         153.77              160.46        223.14
   Root dry biomass (g)         17.26         24.34                19.73         28.28
   Cob weight (g)               115.28         155.83              123.71        176.23
 5         Rhizosphere and endophytic colonization of roots, stems and leaves by the inoculant
   strain were determined by plate counting using TSA plates. Root, stem and leave samples
   were washed, surface sterilized (as described above) and used for inoculant strain recovery
   (colonization). For this, samples were crushed in 0.9% (w/v) NaCl solution, shaked with a
   pulsifier (Microgen Bioproducts Ltd., UK) for 30 see and different dilutions were spread on
 0 TSA plates. Bacterial colonies were counted after 4 days of incubation at 28  20 C. The
   selected colonies were identified and confirmed by IGS region-based RFLP analysis.
           The ability of strain FD17 to colonize various tissues of the host plant, as well as the
   rhizosphere surrounding the plant, was examined. As shown in Table 13 below, seeds of two
   different maize cultivars inoculated with the FD17 strain resulted in effective, detectable
15 colonization in the root, shoot and leaf interior. Therefore, the seeds were treated with an
   amount of the endophytic bacterium that is sufficient to colonize the leaf, root, and shoot
   tissues. Surprisingly, the rhizosphere also had significant levels of detectable FD17. This
   suggests that the beneficial effects of endophytic bacterial strains such as FD17 could be
   exerting effects externally to the plant. As described elsewhere, the bacteria described herein
20 are capable of producing compounds which allow increased availability of limiting nutrients
   such as phosphate and iron. The strains could be present on the surface of the seeds in an
   amount sufficient to efficiently colonize the plant, but also the surrounding rhizosphere. The
   presence of significant amounts of detectable bacteria in the rhizosphere raises the interesting
   possibility that the seeds can be treated with the microbes either on its surface or inside the
                                                  60

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   seed in an amount sufficient to alter the rhizosphere of the plant, thereby altering the soil
   around the plant, and rendering it more hospitable for the plant.
   Table 13. Colonization of strain FD17 in rhizosphere root, stem and leaves of two maize
   cultivars (wire-house experiment)
   Maize cv. /          Rhizosphere         Root interior      Shoot interior      Leaf interior
   Plant                (cfu g- dry wt)     (cfu g- dry wt)    (cfu g- dry wt)     (cfu g- dry wt)
   compartment
   Peso                 4.07 x 104          3.39 x 104         1.63 x 103          1.16 x 102
   Morignon             9.85 x 104          8.59 x 104         3.72 x 103          6.23 x 102
 5
   Statistical analyses
            The data of plant growth parameters and colonization were subjected to analyses of
   variance. The means were compared by Least Significant Difference (LSD) test (p < 0.05) to
   detect statistical significance among treatment (Steel et al. 1997, Principles and procedures of
 0 statistics: A biometrical approach. 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill Book Int. Co., Singapore,
   incorporated herein by reference). All of the statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS
   software version 19 (IBM SPSS Statistics 19, USA).
   Example 5: Field trials in Austria
   Methods:
 5          Four varieties of maize were grown at two locations in Austria. Six replicate plots
   were sown for each treatment and variety combination. Control plots were planted with
   formulation treated seeds (20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7, 30% sucrose, 1% sodium alginate).
            Seeds were sown in a rainfed field in plots arranged in a randomized complete block
   design. Leaf color was visually assessed at one of the two locations and ranked from 1 - 3
20 light green to dark green. Both male and female flowering was visually rated from 0 - 2 (0      =
   not visible, 1 = flower visible, 2  = fully developed flower). Corn was hand harvested over 4
   m of interior rows. Kernel weight per and kernel moisture per plot were recorded as well as
   the number of ears harvested per plot. Yield was calculated as kernel weight per plot divided
   by the number of ears harvested and adjusted for moisture content to a storage moisture of
25 14% (i.e. dry kernel weight per ear in g).
            Results: As shown in Table 14, no treatment related differences were evident for
   seedling emergence, LAI, color, height and female flower development. A slight increase in
   male flower development was recorded. No treatment related differences were evident for
   yield measured as dry kernels per ear in g.
                                                    61

       WO 2015/200852                                                             PCT/US2015/038110
   Table 14. Rainfed trials in Austria.
   Field trial metrics aggregated over both locations and all varieties. Units: Color (ratings scale
   1-3), Flowering (ratings scale, 0   = not visible, 1 = flower visible, 2 = fully developed flower),
   yield (dry kernels per ear in g)
   Treatment          Color       Male          Female       Yield
                                  Flower        Flower
   Formulation        1.79        1.47          1.14         155.46
   control
   S2                 1.95        1.54          1.12         153.83
   S6                 1.79        1.52          1.06         155.17
   S9                 1.95        1.61          1.04         155.49
   S1O                1.87        1.52          1.14         153.29
   FD17               1.83        1.5           1.02         151.76
 5 Example 6: Field trials in the US on maize
   Methods:
            Two varieties of maize were grown at one location in the United States in an irrigated
   trial. Six replicate plots were sown for each treatment and variety combination. Control plots
   were planted for formulation treated seeds (20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7, 3% sucrose, 1%
 0 sodium alginate).
            Seeds were sown in an irrigated field in plots of 10 by 40 ft arranged in a randomized
   complete block design with a JD 7100 cone seeder and box seeder planters respectively. Four
   rows were planted per plot with a row spacing of 30 inches. Seeding density at was 35,000
   seeds per acre. The interior 2 rows were harvested by combine and 10 individual ears were
_5 hand harvested from exterior rows. Grain yield per plot, grain moisture, and test weight were
   assessed. Yield was adjusted for grain moisture content to a storage moisture of 14% (i.e. dry
   bushels per acre for combine harvest and dry kernels per ear in g for hand harvest).
            Results:
            As shown in Table 15, S4, S10, FD17 showed positive impacts on hand harvest yield
20 of up to 10 g per ear. None of the treatments showed a difference when harvested by
   combine.
   Table 15. Field trial metrics aggregated over both varieties.
   Units: Hand harvest yield (dry kernels per ear in g), Combine yield (dry bushels per acre).
   Treatment            Hand            Combine
                        harvest         yield
                        yield
                                                     62

      WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
  Formulation         106.58          104.66
  control
  S2                  101.40          95.79
  S4                  116.04          99.29
  S6                  101.68          104.58
  S9                  109.16          104.30
  SlO                 113.34          95.28
  FD17                113.99          101.40
  Example 7: Field trials in the US on spring wheat
  Methods:
          One variety of spring wheat were grown at one location in the United States. Six
5 replicate plots were sown for each treatment and variety combination. Control plots were
  planted for formulation treated seeds (20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7, 3% sucrose, 1% sodium
  alginate).
          Seeds were sown with a great plains drill in either irrigated or rainfed field in plots of
  10 by 40 ft arranged in a randomized complete block design. 7 rows were planted per plot
0 with a row spacing of 17 inches and a seeding density was 60 pounds per acre for rainfed.
  Wheat was harvested by combine over the entire plot area. Grain yield per plot, grain
  moisture, and test weight were assessed. Yield was adjusted for grain moisture content to a
  storage moisture of 13% (i.e. dry bushels per acre).
          Results: The combine yield results are shown in Table 16. S6, S10 and S4 showed
5 slight positive trends up to 2 bushels per acre, while S9 showed a statistically significant yield
  increase of 2 bushels per acre or 4 bushels per acre compared to the formulation controls
  respectively.
  Table 16. Units: Combine yield (dry bushels per acre).
  Treatment          Yield
  Formulation        40.64
  control
  S2                 39.99
  S4                 41.10
  S6                 41.23
  S9                 42.76*
  SlO                41.07
  FD17               38.63
                                                  63

      WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
   Example 8: Field trials in Argentina on maize
   Methods:
           Two varieties of maize were grown at one location in Argentina. Ten replicate plots
   were sown for each treatment and variety combination. Control plots were planted for
 5 formulation treated seeds (20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7, 30% sucrose, 1% sodium alginate).
            Seeds were sown with a cone planter in a drip irrigated field. The field was located in
   an extremely arid environment and received irrigation targeted at 80% of evapotranspiration
   in order to create a managed water stress environment designed to reduce yield by around
   20%. Plots were 5 X 3 m in size and arranged in rectangular blocks in a randomized complete
 0 block design. Four rows were planted per plot with a row spacing of 70 cm and an in-row
   seed spacing of 15 cm. Above and belowground biomass were assessed for 10 plants per plot
   one month after sowing. The date at which 50% of the plants per plot reached flowering was
   visually assessed. The interior two rows were harvested by combine. Grain yield per plot,
   grain moisture and test weight were assessed. Yield was adjusted for grain moisture content
 5 to a storage moisture of 14% (i.e. dry bushels per acre).
           Results:
           In this trial with moderate water stress, S4 and S9 showed a positive impact on
   aboveground biomass up to 30 g compared to the formulation control (Table 17). S4 showed
   a positive increase in belowground biomass compared to the formulation control up to 6 g.
 0 S4, S9 and S1O showed a positive increase in yield compared to the formulation controls of
   up to 19 bushels per acre..
   Table 17. Managed moderate water stress trial.
   Units: Biomass (g), Combine yield (dry bushels per acre).
   Treatment        Aboveground      Belowground      Yield
                    biomass          biomass
   Formulation      477.90           55.62            152.38
   control
   S4               503.60           61.23            163.80
   S9               486.20           56.24            171.19*
   S1O              466.70           57.25            163.89
25
                                                  64

      WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
                                               CLAIMS
   1.      A seed or seedling of an agricultural plant having disposed on an exterior surface of
   the seed or seedling a formulation comprising an exogenous endophytic bacterial population
   consisting essentially of an endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid
 5 sequence at least 95% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial population is disposed on
   an exterior surface of the seed or seedling in an amount effective to colonize the plant, the
   formulation further comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of an
   agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an
 0 antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a
   rodenticide, and a nutrient.
   2.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to be detectable within a target tissue of the
   mature agricultural plant selected from a fruit, a seed, a leaf, a stem, a shoot, a flower, or a
 5 root, or portion thereof.
   3.      The seed or seedling of claim 2, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to be detectable in an amount of at least about
   100 CFU of the endophytic bacterial population per gram fresh weight of the target tissue.
   4.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, comprising at least about 100 CFU per gram fresh
 0 weight of the exogenous endophytic bacterial population on its exterior surface.
   5.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the agricultural plant is a monocot.
   6.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the agricultural plant is a corn plant.
   7.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the agricultural plant is a dicot.
   8.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
25 population is disposed on an exterior surface in an amount effective to be detectable in an
   amount of at least about 100 CFU in the mature agricultural plant.
   9.      The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to increase fruit or grain biomass or yield from
   the resulting plant by at least 5% when compared with a reference agricultural plant.
                                                    65

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   10.     The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to increase the biomass of the agricultural plant
   or portion thereof by at least 5% when compared with a reference agricultural plant.
   11.     The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
 5 population is disposed in an amount effective to increase the rate of seed germination when
   compared with a reference agricultural plant.
   12.     The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial
   population is disposed in an amount effective to detectably induce production of auxin in the
   seed or seedling.
 0 13.     The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the seed is a corn seed, and wherein the
   formulation further comprises at least about 10,000 CFU of the exogenous endophytic
   bacterial population consisting essentially of an endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S
   rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from
   the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10 disposed on the exterior surface of the seed, the
 5 formulation comprising a microbial stabilizer.
   14.     The seed or seedling of claim 1, wherein the seed or seedling is packaged in a
   container, wherein the container further comprises a label describing said seeds or seedlings
   and/or said exogenous endophytic bacterial population.
   15.     The seed or seedling of claim 14, wherein the container comprises at least 1000 of
20 said seeds or seedlings.
   16.     A method for preparing a seed or seedling comprising an endophytic bacterial
   population, said method comprising applying to a seed or seedling a formulation comprising
   an endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an endophytic bacterium
   comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95% identical to a nucleic acid
25 sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10.
   17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the formulation further comprises at least one
   member selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier,
   a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an
   insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient.
                                                   66

       WO 2015/200852                                                             PCT/US2015/038110
   18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
   amount effective to be detectable within a target tissue of the mature agricultural plant
   selected from a fruit, a seed, a leaf, a stem, a shoot, a flower, or a root, or portion thereof.
   19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
 5 amount effective to be detectable in an amount of at least about 100 CFU of the endophytic
   bacterial population per gram fresh weight of the target tissue.
   20.     The method of claim 16, wherein the seed is a monocot seed.
   21.     The method of claim 16, wherein the monocot seed is a corn seed.
   22.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
 0 amount effective to increase water use efficiency of a plant grown from the seed by at least
   5% when compared with a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions.
   23.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
   amount effective to increase photosynthetic rates of a plant grown from the seed by at least
   8% when compared with a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions.
 5 24.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
   amount effective to increase the biomass of a plant, or plant part, grown from the seed under
   abiotic-stress free conditions by at least 5% when compared with a reference agricultural
   plant grown under the same conditions.
   25.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
20 amount effective to increase fruit or grain biomass or yield from the resulting plant by at least
   5% when compared with a reference agricultural plant that was grown under stress-free
   conditions.
   26.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
   amount effective to increase the rate of seed germination by at least 5% when compared with
25 a reference agricultural plant grown under the same conditions.
   27.     The method of claim 16, wherein the endophytic bacterial population is applied in an
   amount effective to increase plant height by at least 5% when compared with a reference
   agricultural plant grown under the same conditions.
                                                     67

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
   28.     The method of 16, wherein the seed is a corn seed, and wherein the formulation
   comprises at least about 1,000 CFU of the endophytic bacterium applied on the exterior
   surface of the seed, the formulation comprising a microbial stabilizer.
   29.     The method of claim 28, further comprising packaging the seeds in a container,
 5 wherein the container further comprises a label describing said seeds and/or said exogenous
   endophytic bacterial population.
   30.     The method of claim 29, wherein the container comprises at least 1000 of said seeds.
   31.     A method for conferring one or more fitness benefits to an agricultural plant
   comprising:
 0             a. Providing a seed or seedling of the plant;
               b. Contacting said seed or seedling with a formulation comprising an exogenous
                   endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an endophytic
                   bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95%
                   identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ
 5                 ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial population is
                   disposed on an exterior surface of the seed or seedling in an amount effective
                   to colonize the mature plant, wherein the formulation further comprises at
                   least one member selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally
                   compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an
20                 antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth
                   regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient; and
               c. Allowing the seed or seedling to grow under conditions that permit the
                   endophytic bacterium to colonize the plant.
   32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the one or more of the fitness benefits are selected
25 from the group consisting of increased germination, increased biomass, increased flowering
   time, increased plant biomass, increased fruit or grain yield, increased biomass of the fruit or
   cob, and increased drought tolerance.
   33.     A method for conferring one or more fitness benefits to a monocot agricultural plant
   comprising:
                                                    68

       WO 2015/200852                                                            PCT/US2015/038110
               a. Providing a monocot seed of the plant;
               b. Applying to an exterior surface of the monocot seed a formulation comprising
                   an exogenous endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an
                   endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least
 5                 99% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
                   SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the exogenous endophytic bacterial population is
                   applied to an exterior surface of the seed in an amount effective to colonize the
                   mature plant, wherein the formulation further comprises at least one member
                   selected from the group consisting of an agriculturally compatible carrier, a
 0                 tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an
                   herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a plant growth regulator, a rodenticide,
                   and a nutrient; and
               c.  Allowing the seed to grow under conditions that permit the endophytic
                   bacterium to colonize the plant.
 5 34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the one or more of the fitness benefits is selected
   from the group consisting of increased germination rate, shortened time before onset of
   flowering, increased stomatal conductance, increased photosynthetic rates, increased plant
   height, and increased drought tolerance as compared to an agricultural plant grown under the
   same conditions.
 0 35.     The method of claim 33, wherein the one or more of the fitness benefits is selected
   from the group consisting of increased biomass, increased root biomass, increased leaf
   biomass, increased fruit or grain yield, and increased biomass of the fruit or cob as compared
   to an agricultural plant that was grown under stress-free conditions.
   36.     The method of claim 33, wherein the seed is allowed to grow under abiotic-stress free
25 conditions and the one or more of the fitness benefits is selected from the group consisting of
   increased germination rate, increased biomass, shortened time before onset of flowering,
   increased plant biomass, increased fruit or grain yield, increased biomass of the fruit or cob,
   increased stomatal conductance, increased photosynthetic rates, increased plant height, and
   increased drought tolerance compared to a reference agricultural plant grown under the same
30 conditions.
                                                    69

       WO 2015/200852                                                           PCT/US2015/038110
   37.     A method of obtaining greater flowering uniformity in a population of agricultural
   monocot plants comprising:
              a. Providing a population of monocot seeds;
              b. Applying to an exterior surfaces of the population of seeds a formulation
 5                 comprising an exogenous endophytic bacterial population consisting
                   essentially of an endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid
                   sequence at least 99% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the
                   group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the exogenous endophytic
                   bacterial population is applied on an exterior surface of the seed in an amount
 0                 effective to colonize the mature plant, wherein the formulation further
                   comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of an
                   agriculturally compatible carrier, a tackifier, a microbial stabilizer, a
                   fungicide, an antibacterial agent, an herbicide, a nematicide, an insecticide, a
                   plant growth regulator, a rodenticide, and a nutrient; and
 5            c. Allowing the population of seeds to grow at least to the flowering stage,
                   wherein the population of plants has a reduction in the standard deviation in
                   the flowering time of at least 5% when compared with a population of
                   reference agricultural plants grown under the same conditions.
   38.     A method for preparing a monocot seed comprising an endophytic bacterial
 0 population, said method comprising applying to an exterior surface of a monocot seed a
   formulation comprising an endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an
   endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 99% identical to
   a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10.
   39.     A method for treating seedlings, the method comprising:
25                        a) contacting foliage or the rhizosphere of a plurality of agricultural
                             plant seedlings with a seed a formulation comprising an endophytic
                             bacterial population consisting essentially of an endophytic
                             bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least
                             99% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group
30                           consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10; and
                                                   70

       WO 2015/200852                                                         PCT/US2015/038110
                         b) growing the contacted seedlings.
   40.     The method of claim 38 or 39, wherein the contacting comprises spraying, immersing,
   coating, encapsulating, or dusting the seeds or seedlings with the formulation.
   41.     A method for modulating a plant trait comprising applying to vegetation or an area
 5 adjacent the vegetation, a seed a formulation comprising an endophytic bacterial population
   consisting essentially of an endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid
   sequence at least 99% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the formulation is capable of providing a benefit to the
   vegetation, or to a crop produced from the vegetation.
 0 42.     The method of claim 41, wherein the vegetation is dicot seedlings.
   43.     The method of claim 41, wherein the vegetation is monocot seedlings.
   44.     A method for modulating a plant trait comprising applying a formulation to soil, the
   seed a formulation comprising an endophytic bacterial population consisting essentially of an
   endophytic bacterium comprising a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 99% identical to
 5 a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, wherein the
   formulation is capable of providing a benefit to seeds planted within the soil, or to a crop
   produced from plants grown in the soil.
   45.     The method of any of claims 16, 31, 33, 38, 39, 41, or 44, wherein the endophytic
   bacterium is capable of exhibiting production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation, production of an
20 antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization, production of a
   cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase, or production of acetoin.
   46.     The method of claim 46, wherein the bacterial endophyte exhibits at least two of:
   production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation, production of an antimicrobial, production of a
   siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization, production of a cellulase, production of a
25 chitinase, production of a xylanase, and production of acetoin.
   47.     The method of any of claims 16, 31, 33, 38, 39, 41, or 44, wherein the endophytic
   bacterium is capable of utilizing arabinose as a substrate.
                                                  71

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   48.     The method of any one of claims 16, 31, 33, 38, 39, 41, or 44, wherein the bacterial
   endophyte is present at a concentration of at least 10 A 2 CFU/seed on the surface of the seeds
   after contacting.
   49.     The method of any one of claims 16, 31, 33, 38, 39, 41, or 44, wherein the benefit is
 5 selected from the group consisting of: increased root biomass, increased root length,
   increased height, increased shoot length, increased leaf number, increased water use
   efficiency, increased tolerance to low nitrogen stress, increased nitrogen use efficiency,
   increased overall biomass, increase grain yield, increased photosynthesis rate, increased
   tolerance to drought, increased heat tolerance, increased salt tolerance, increased resistance to
 0 nematode stress, increased resistance to a fungal pathogen, increased resistance to a bacterial
   pathogen, increased resistance to a viral pathogen, a detectable modulation in the level of a
   metabolite, and a detectable modulation in the proteome, relative to reference seeds or
   agricultural plants derived from reference seeds.
   50.     The method of claim 49, wherein the benefit comprises at least two benefits selected
 5 from the group consisting of: increased root biomass, increased root length, increased height,
   increased shoot length, increased leaf number, increased water use efficiency, increased
   tolerance to low nitrogen stress, increased nitrogen use efficiency, increased overall biomass,
   increase grain yield, increased photosynthesis rate, increased tolerance to drought, increased
   heat tolerance, increased salt tolerance, increased resistance to nematode stress, increased
 0 resistance to a fungal pathogen, increased resistance to a bacterial pathogen, increased
   resistance to a viral pathogen, a detectable modulation in the level of a metabolite, and a
   detectable modulation in the proteome, relative to reference seeds or plants derived from
   reference seeds.
   51.     The method of claim 50, wherein the benefit is increased tolerance to low nitrogen
25 stress or increased nitrogen use efficiency, and the endophytic bacterium is non-diazotrophic.
   52.     The method of claim 50, wherein the benefit is increased tolerance to low nitrogen
   stress or increased nitrogen use efficiency, and the endophytic bacterium is diazotrophic.
   53.     A synthetic combination comprising a purified bacterial population in association
   with a plurality of seeds or seedlings of an agricultural plant, wherein the purified bacterial
30 population comprises a first bacterial endophyte capable of at least one of: production of an
   auxin, nitrogen fixation, production of an antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral
                                                   72

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   phosphate solubilization, production of a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a
   xylanase, utilization of arabinose as a carbon source, and production of acetoin, or a
   combination of two or more thereof, wherein the first bacterial endophyte comprises a 16S
   rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from
 5 the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10, and wherein the bacterial endophyte is present in
   the synthetic combination in an amount effective to provide a benefit to the seeds or seedlings
   or the plants derived from the seeds or seedlings.
   54.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the synthetic combination is disposed
   within a packaging material selected from a bag, box, bin, envelope, carton, or container.
 0 55.     The synthetic combination of claim 54, comprising 1000 seed weight amount of
   seeds, wherein the packaging material optionally comprises a dessicant, and wherein the
   synthetic combination optionally comprises an anti-fungal agent.
   56.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the purified bacterial population is
   localized on the surface of the seeds or seedlings.
 5 57.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the first bacterial endophyte is
   obtained from a plant species other than the seeds or seedlings of the synthetic combination.
   58.     The synthetic combination of claim 53 wherein the first bacterial endophyte is
   obtained from a plant cultivar different from the cultivar of the seeds or seedlings of the
   synthetic combination.
20 59.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the first bacterial endophyte is
   obtained from a plant cultivar that is the same as the cultivar of the seeds or seedlings of the
   synthetic combination.
   60.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the bacterial population comprises
   two or more families of bacterial endophytes.
25 61.     The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the bacterial population further
   comprises a second bacterial endophyte having an 16S nucleic acid sequence less than 95%
   identical to that of the first bacterial endophyte.
                                                    73

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   62.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the bacterial population further
   comprises a second bacterial endophyte, wherein the first and second bacterial endophytes
   are independently capable of at least one of production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation,
   production of an antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization,
 5 production of a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase, utilization of
   arabinose as a carbon source, or production of acetoin, or a combination of two or more
   thereof.
   63.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the bacterial population further
   comprises a second bacterial endophyte, wherein the first and second bacterial endophytes
 0 are capable of synergistically increasing at least one of: production of an auxin, nitrogen
   fixation, production of an antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate
   solubilization, production of a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase,
   utilization of arabinose as a carbon source, or production of acetoin, or a combination of two
   or more thereof, in an amount effective to increase tolerance to drought relative to a reference
 5 plant.
   64.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the first bacterial endophyte is
   capable of at least two of: production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation, production of an
   antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization, production of a
   cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase, utilization of arabinose as a
 0 carbon source, and production of acetoin.
   65.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the benefit is selected from the group
   consisting of increased root biomass, increased root length, increased height, increased shoot
   length, increased leaf number, increased water use efficiency, increased overall biomass,
   increase grain yield, increased photosynthesis rate, increased tolerance to drought, increased
25 heat tolerance, increased salt tolerance, increased resistance to nematode stress, increased
   resistance to a fungal pathogen, increased resistance to a bacterial pathogen, increased
   resistance to a viral pathogen, a detectable modulation in the level of a metabolite, and a
   detectable modulation in the proteome relative to a reference plant.
   66.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the benefit comprises at least two
30 benefits selected from the group consisting of increased root biomass, increased root length,
   increased height, increased shoot length, increased leaf number, increased water use
                                                   74

       WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
   efficiency, increased tolerance to low nitrogen stress, increased nitrogen use efficiency,
   increased overall biomass, increase grain yield, increased photosynthesis rate, increased
   tolerance to drought, increased heat tolerance, increased salt tolerance, increased resistance to
   nematode stress, increased resistance to a fungal pathogen, increased resistance to a bacterial
 5 pathogen, increased resistance to a viral pathogen, a detectable modulation in the level of a
   metabolite, and a detectable modulation in the proteome, relative to a reference plant.
   67.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the combination comprises seeds and
   the first bacterial endophyte is associated with the seeds as a coating on the surface of the
   seeds.
 0 68.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the combination comprises seedlings
   and the first bacterial endophyte is contacted with the seedlings as a spray applied to one or
   more leaves and/or one or more roots of the seedlings.
   69.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the synthetic combination further
   comprises one or more additional bacterial endophyte species.
 5 70.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the effective amount is at least
   1x10^3 CFU/per seed.
   71.      The synthetic combination of claim 53, wherein the combination comprises seeds and
   the effective amount is from about 1x10^2 CFU/per seed to about 1x10^8 CFU/per seed.
   72.      An agricultural product comprising a 1000 seed weight amount of a synthetic
20 combination produced by the step of contacting a plurality of agricultural plant seeds with a
   liquid formulation comprising a bacterial population at a concentration of at least 1 CFU per
   agricultural plant seed, wherein at least 10% of the CFUs present in the formulation are one
   or more bacterial endophytes, wherein the purified bacterial population comprises a first
   bacterial endophyte capable of at least one of: production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation,
25 production of an antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization,
   production of a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase, utilization of
   arabinose as a carbon source, and production of acetoin, or a combination of two or more
   thereof, wherein the first bacterial endophyte comprises a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at
   least 95% identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
30 NOs: 1-10, under conditions such that the formulation is associated with the surface of the
                                                   75

       WO 2015/200852                                                               PCT/US2015/038110
   seeds in a manner effective for the bacterial endophytes to confer a benefit to the seeds or to a
   crop comprising a plurality of agricultural plants produced from the seeds.
   73.      The agricultural product of claim 72, wherein the bacterial endophytes are present in a
   concentration of from about 10 ^2 to about 10 ^5 CFU/ml.
 5 74.      The agricultural product of claim 73, wherein the bacterial endophytes are present in a
   concentration is from about   10 ^5 to about  10 ^8  CFU/seed.
   75.      An agricultural formulation comprising a purified bacterial population and an
   agriculturally acceptable carrier, the bacterial population comprising a first bacterial
   endophyte capable of at least one of: production of an auxin, nitrogen fixation, production of
 0 an antimicrobial, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate solubilization, production of
   a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase, utilization of arabinose as a
   carbon source, and production of acetoin, or a combination of two or more thereof, wherein
   the first bacterial endophyte comprises a 16S rRNA nucleic acid sequence at least 95%
   identical to a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-10,
 5 and wherein the first bacterial endophyte is present in an amount effective to confer a benefit
   to an agricultural plant seed to which the formulation is applied or to an agricultural plant
   seedling to which the formulation is applied.
   76.      The agricultural formulation of claim 75, wherein the purified bacterial population
   consists essentially of two or more species of bacterial endophytes.
20 77.      The agricultural formulation of claim 75, wherein the formulation is a liquid and the
   bacterial concentration is from about   10A 3 to about    10 ^ 1 1 CFU/ml.
   78.      The agricultural formulation of claim 75, wherein the formulation is a gel or powder
   and the bacterial concentration is from about     10A 3 to about    10 ^1 1 CFU/gm.
   79.      The agricultural product or formulation of claim 72 or 75, wherein the benefit is
25 selected from the group consisting of: increased root biomass, increased root length,
   increased height, increased shoot length, increased leaf number, increased water use
   efficiency, increased tolerance to low nitrogen stress, increased nitrogen use efficiency,
   increased overall biomass, increase grain yield, increased photosynthesis rate, increased
   tolerance to drought, increased heat tolerance, increased salt tolerance, increased resistance to
                                                     76

      WO 2015/200852                                                          PCT/US2015/038110
  nematode stress, increased resistance to a fungal pathogen, increased resistance to a bacterial
  pathogen, increased resistance to a viral pathogen, a detectable modulation in the level of a
  metabolite, and a detectable modulation in the proteome relative to a reference plant, or a
  combination thereof.
5 80.     The agricultural product or formulation of claim 72 or 75, wherein the bacterial
  population comprises two or more families of bacterial endophytes.
  81.     The agricultural product or formulation of claim 72 or 75, wherein the formulation
  further comprises a second bacterial endophyte having a 16S nucleic acid sequence less than
  95% identical to that of the first bacterial endophyte.
0 82.     The agricultural product or formulation of claim 72 or 75, wherein the bacterial
  endophyte exhibits: production of auxin, production of a siderophore, mineral phosphate
  solubilization, production of a cellulase, production of a chitinase, production of a xylanase,
  and production of acetoin, but not increase nitrogen fixation relative to a reference plant.
  83.     The agricultural product or formulation of claim 72 or 75, wherein the product or
5 formulation comprises two or more bacterial endophyte species.
                                                   77

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                             SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110> AUSTRIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY GMBH
                    SYMBIOTA, LLC
              <120> PLANT-ENDOPHYTE COMBINATIONS AND USES THEREFOR
              <130> 30807-29254 PCT
              <140>
<removed-apn>
              <141>
              <150> 14/315,804
              <151> 2014-06-26
              <160> 10
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   1355
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Agrobacterium sp.
              <400> 1
              atagcagtcg acgccccgca ggggagtggc agacgggtga gtaacgcgtg ggaacatacc    60
              ctttcctgcg gaatagctcc gggaaactgg aattaatacc gcatacgccc tacgggggaa   120
              agatttatcg gggaaggatt ggcccgcgtt ggattagcta gttggtgggg taaaggccta   180
              ccaaggcgac gatccatagc tggtctgaga ggatgatcag ccacattggg actgagacac   240
              ggcccaaact cctacgggag gcagcagtgg ggaatattgg acaatgggcg caagcctgat   300
              ccagccatgc cgcgtgagtg atgaaggcct tagggttgta aagctctttc accggagaag   360
              ataatgacgg tatccggaga agaagccccg gctaacttcg tgccagcagc cgcggtaata   420
              cgaagggggc tagcgttgtt cggaattact gggcgtaaag cgcacgtagg cggatattta   480
              agtcaggggt gaaatcccag agctcaactc tggaactgcc tttgatactg ggtatcttga   540
              gtatggaaga ggtaagtgga attccgagtg tagaggtgaa attcgtagat attcggagga   600
              acaccagtgg cgaaggcggc ttactggtcc attactgacg ctgaggtgcg aaagcgtggg   660
              gagcaaacag gattagatac cctggtagtc cacgccgtaa acgatgaatg ttagccgtcg   720
              ggcagtatac tgttcggtgg cgcagctaac gcattaaaca ttccgcctgg ggagtacggt   780
              cgcaagatta aaactcaaag gaattgacgg gggcccgcac aagcggtgga gcatgtggtt   840
                                                  Page 1

              taattcgaag caacgcgcag aaccttacca gctcttgaca ttcggggttt gggcagtgga    900
<removed-date>
              gacattgtcc ttcagttagg ctgggcccag aacaggtgct gcatggctgt cgtcagctcg    960
              tgtcgtgaga tgttgggtta agtcccgcaa cgagcgcaac cctcgccctt agttgccagc   1020
              atttagttgg gcactctaag gggactgccg gtgataagcc gagaggaagg tggggatgac   1080
              gtcaagtcct catggccctt acgggctggg ctacacacgt gctacaatgg tggtgacagt   1140
<removed-apn>
              gggcagcgag acagcgatgt cgagctaatc tccaaaagcc atctcagttc ggattgcact   1200
              ctgcaactcg agtgcatgaa gttggaatcg ctagtaatcg cagatcagca tgctgcggtg   1260
              aatacgttcc cgggccttgt acacaccgcc cgtcacacca tgggagttgg ttttacccga   1320
              aggtagtgcg ctaaccgcaa ggaggcagct atcca                              1355
              <210>   2
              <211>   1388
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Pantoea sp.
              <400> 2
              ccatgcagtc ggacggtagc acagataagc ttgctccttg ggtgacgagt ggcggacggg     60
              tgagtaatgt ctggggatct gcccgataga gggggataac cactggaaac ggtggctaat    120
              accgcataac gtcgcaagac caaagagggg gaccttcggg cctctcacta tcggatgaac    180
              ccatatggga ttatctagta ggcggggtaa tggcccacct aggcgacgat ccctagctgg    240
              tctgagagga tgaccagcca cactggaact gagacacggt ccagactcct acgggaggca    300
              gcagtgggga atattgcaca atgggcgcaa gcctgatgca cccatgccgc gtgtatgaag    360
              aaggccttcg ggttgtaaag tactttcagc ggggaggaag gcgacggggt taataaccct    420
              gtcgattgac gttacccgca gaagacgcac cggctaactc cgtgccagca gccgcggtaa    480
              tacggagggt gcaagcgtta atcggaatta ctgggcgtaa agcgcacgca ggcggtctgt    540
              taagtcacat gtgaaatccc ccgggcttaa cctgggaact gcatttgaaa ctggcaggct    600
              tgagtcttgt agaggggggt agaattcctg gtgtagcggt gaaatgcgta gagatctgga    660
              cgaataccgg tggcgatcgc ggccccctgg acaaagactg acgctcacgt gcgaaagcgt    720
              ggggagcaaa ctcgattaca taccctggta gtccacgccg taaacgatgt cgacttggag    780
              gttgttccct tgaggagtgg cttccggagc taacgcgtta agtcgaccgc ctggggagta    840
                                                  Page 2

              cggccgcaag gttaaaactc aaatgaattg acgggggccc gcacaagcgg tggagcatgt    900
<removed-date>
              ggtttaattc gatgcaacgc gaagaacctt acctactctt gacatccagc gaatttagca    960
              gagatgcttt ggtgccttcg ggaacgctga gacaggtgct gcatggctgt cgtcagctcg   1020
              tgttgtgaaa tgttgggtta agtcccgcaa cgagcgcaac ccttatcctt tgttgccagc   1080
              gattcggtcg ggaactcaaa ggagactgcc ggtgataaac cggaggaagg tggggatgac   1140
<removed-apn>
              gtcaagtcat catggccctt acgagtaggg ctacacacgt gctacaatgg cgcatacaaa   1200
              gagaagcgac ctcgcgagag caagcggacc tcacaaagtg cgtcgtagtc cggatcggag   1260
              tctgcaactc gactccgtga agtcggaatc gctagtaatc gtggatcaga atgccacggt   1320
              gaatacgttc ccgggccttg tacacaccgc ccgtcacacc atgggagtgg gttgcaaaag   1380
              aagtagtt                                                            1388
              <210>   3
              <211>   1313
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sphingomonas sp.
              <400> 3
              catgcagtcg acgagccttt cggggctagt ggcgcacggg tgcgtaacgc gtgggaatct     60
              gcccttgggt tcggaataac gtcgggaaac tgacgctaat accggatgat gacgtaagtc    120
              caaagattta tcgcccaggg atgagcccgc gtaggattag ctagttggtg aggtaaaggc    180
              tcaccaaggc gacgatcctt agctggtctg agaggatgat cagccacact gggactgaga    240
              cacggcccag actcctacgg gaggcagcag tagggaatat tggacaatgg gggcaaccct    300
              gatccagcaa tgccgcgtga gtgatgaagg ccttagggtt gtaaagctct tttacccggg    360
              atgataatga atacggaggg ggctagcgtt gttcggaatt actgggcgta aagcgcacgt    420
              aggcggcgat ttaagtcaga ggtgaaagcc cggggctcaa cccccggaat agcctttgag    480
              actggattgc ttgaacatcg gagaggtgag tggaattccg agtgtagagg tgaaatttcg    540
              tagatattcg gaagaacacc agtggcgaag gcggctcact ggacgattgt tgacgctgag    600
              gtgcgaaagc gtggggagca aacaggatta gatacccctg gtagtccacg ccgtaaacga    660
              tgataactag ctgctggggc tcatggagtt tcggtggcgc agctaacgca ttaagttatc    720
              cgcctgggga gtacggtcgc aagattaaaa ctcaaaggaa ttgacggggg cctgcacaag    780
                                                  Page 3

              cggtggagca tgtggtttaa ttcgaagcaa cgcgcagaac cttaccaacg tttgacatcc    840
<removed-date>
              ctatcgcgga tcgtggagac actttccttc agttcggctg gataggtgac aggtgctgca    900
              tggctgtcgt cagctcgtgt cgtgagaata cttgggttaa gtcccgcaac gagcgcaacc    960
              ctcgccttta gttgccatca tttagttggg tactctaaag gaaccgccgg tgataagccg   1020
              gaggaaggtg gggatgacgt caagtcctca tggcccttac gcgttgggct acacacgtgc   1080
<removed-apn>
              tacaatggcg actacagtgg gcagccactc cgcgaggagg agctaatctc caaaagtcgt   1140
              ctcagttcgg attgttctct gcaactcgag agcatgaagg cggaatcgct agtaatcgcg   1200
              gatcagcatg ccgcggtgaa tacgttccca ggccttgtac acaccgcccg tcacaccatg   1260
              ggagttggtt tcacccgaag gctgtgcgct aaccgcaagg aggcagcaga cca          1313
              <210>   4
              <211>   1422
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Pseudomonas sp.
              <400> 4
              acacatgcag tcgagcggta gagaggtgct tgcacctctt gagagcggcg gacgggtgag     60
              taaagcctag gaatctgcct ggtagtgggg gataacgctc ggaaacggac gctaataccg    120
              catacgtcct acgggagaaa gcaggggacc ttcgggcctt gcgctatcag atgagcctag    180
              gtcggattag ctagttggtg aggtaatggc tcaccaaggc gacgatccgt aactggtctg    240
              agaggatgat cagtcacact ggaactgaga cacggtccag actcctacgg gaggcagcag    300
              tggggaatat tggacaatgg gcgaaagcct gatccagcca tgccgcgtgt gtgaagaagg    360
              tcttcggatt gtaaagcact ttaagttggg aggaagggca ttaacctaat acgttagtgt    420
              tttgacgtta ccgacagaat aagcaccggc taactctgtg ccagcagccg cggtaataca    480
              gagggtgcaa gcgttaatcg gaattactgg gcgtaaagcg cgcgtaggtg gttcgttaag    540
              ttggatgtga aatccccggg ctcaacctgg gaactgcatt caaaactgtc gagctagagt    600
              atggtagagg gtggtggaat ttcctgttgt agcggtgaaa tgcgtgatac agatatagga    660
              aggaacacca gtggcgaagg cgacccacct ggactgatac tgacactgag gtgcgaaagc    720
              gtggggagca aacaggatta gataccctgg gtagtccacg cccgtaaacg atgtcaacta    780
              gccgttggga gccttgagct cttagtggcg cagctaacgc attaagttga ccgcctgggg    840
                                                  Page 4

              agtacggccg caaggttaaa actcaaatga attgacgggg gcccgcacaa gcggtggagc    900
<removed-date>
              atgtggttta attcgaagca acgcgaagta ccttaccagg ccttgacatc ctatgaactt    960
              tccagagatg gattggtgcc ttcgggaaca ttgagacagg tgctgcatgg ctgtcgtcag   1020
              ctcgtgtcgt gagatgttgg gttaagtccc gtaacgagcg caacccttgt ccttagttac   1080
              cagcacgtaa tggtgggcac tctaaggaga ctgccggtga caaaccggag gaaggtgggg   1140
<removed-apn>
              atgacgtcaa gtcatcatgg cccttacggc ctgggctaca cacgtgctac aatggtcggt   1200
              acagagggtt gccaagccgc gaggtggagc taatcccaca aaaccgatcg tagtccggat   1260
              cgcagtctgc aactcgactg cgtgaagtcg gaatcgctag taatcgcgaa tcagaatgtc   1320
              gcggtgaata cgttcccggg ccttgtacac accgcccgtc acaccatggg agtgggttgc   1380
              accagaagta gctagtctaa ccttcggggg gacggtacca cg                      1422
              <210>   5
              <211>   1352
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Enterobacter sp.
              <400> 5
              agtaatgtct gggaaactgc ctgatggagg gggataacta ctggaaacgg tagctaatac     60
              cgcataacgt cgcaagacca aagaggggga ccttcgggcc tcttgccatc agatgtgccc    120
              agatgggatt agctagtagg tggggtaacg gctcacctag gcgacgatcc ctagctggtc    180
              tgagaggatg accagccaca ctggaactga gacacggtcc agactcctac gggaggcagc    240
              agtggggaat attgcacaat gggcgcaagc ctgatgcagc catgccgcgt gtatgaagaa    300
              ggccttcggg ttgtaaagta ctttcagcgg ggaggaaggt gttgtggtta ataaccgcag    360
              caattgacgt tacccgcaga agaagcaccg gctaactccg tgccagcagc cgcggtaata    420
              cggagggtgc aagcgttaat cggaattact gggcgtaaag cgcacgcagg cggtctgtca    480
              agtcggatgt gaaatccccg ggctcaacct gggaactgca ttcgaaactg gcaggctaga    540
              gtcttgtaga ggggggtaga attccaggtg tagcggtgaa atgcgtagag atctggagga    600
              ataccggtgg cgaagggcgg ccccctggac aaagactgac gctcaggtgc gaaagcgtgg    660
              ggagcaaaca ggattagata cccctggtag tccacgccgt aaacgatgtc gacttggagg    720
              ttgtgccctt gaggcgtggc ttccggagct aacgcgttaa gtcgaccgcc tggggagtac    780
                                                  Page 5

              ggccgcaagg ataaaacctt aatgaattga cgggggcccg cacaagcggt ggagcatgtg    840
<removed-date>
              gtttaattcg atgcaacgcg aagaaccttt gctactcttg acatccagag aactttccag    900
              agatggattg gtgccttcgg gaactctgag acaggtgctg catggctgtc gtcagctcgt    960
              gttgtgaaat gttgggttaa gtcccgcaac gagcgcaacc cttatccttt gttgccagcg   1020
              gtccggccgg gaactcaaag gagactgcca gtgataaact ggaggaaggt ggggatgacg   1080
<removed-apn>
              tcaagtcatc atggccctta cgagtagggc tacacacgtg ctacaatggc gcatacaaag   1140
              agaagcgaac tcgcgagagc aagcggacct cataaagtgc gtcgtagtcc ggattggagt   1200
              ctgcaactcg actccatgaa gtcggaatcg ctagtaatcg tagatcagaa tgctacggtg   1260
              aatacgttcc cgggccttgt acacaccgcc cgtcacacca tgggagtggg ttgcaaaaga   1320
              agtaggtagc ttaaccttcg ggagggcgct ac                                 1352
              <210>   6
              <211>   1394
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Micrococcus sp.
              <400> 6
              gcatgcagtc gacgatgaag cccagcttgc tgggtggatt agtggcgaac gggtgagtaa     60
              cacgtgagta acctgccctt aactctggga taagcctggg aaactgggtc taataccgga    120
              tatgagcgcc taccgcatgg tgggtgttgg aaagatttat cggttttgga tggactcgcg    180
              gcctatcagc ttgttggtga ggtaatggct caccaaggcg acgacgggta gccggcctga    240
              gagggtgacc ggccacactg ggactgagac acggcccaga ctcctacggg aggcagcagt    300
              ggggaatatt gcacaatggg cgaaagcctg atgcagcgac gccgcgtgag ggatgacggc    360
              cttcgggttg taaacctctt tcagtaggga agaagcgaaa gtgacggtac ctgcagaaga    420
              agcaccggct aactacgtgc cagcagccgc ggtaatacgt agggtgcgag cgttatccgg    480
              aattattggg cgtaaagagc tcgtaggcgg tttgtcgcgt ctgtcgtgaa agtccggggc    540
              ttaaccccgg atctgcggtg ggtacgggca gactagagtg cagtagggga gactggaatt    600
              cctggtgtag cggtggaatg cgcagatatc aggaggaaca ccgatggcga aggcaggtct    660
              ctgggctgta actgacgctg aggagcgaaa gcatggggag cgaacaggat tagataccct    720
              ggtagtccat gccgtaaacg ttgggcacta ggtgtgggga ccattccacg gtttccgcgc    780
                                                    Page 6

              cgcagctaac gcattaagtg ccccgcctgg ggagtacggc cgcaaggcta aaactcaaag    840
<removed-date>
              gaattgacgg gggcccgcac aagcggcgga gcatgcggat taattcgatg caacgcgaag    900
              tagcttacca aggcttgaca tgtactcgat cggcgtagag atacggtttc ccgttagggg    960
              cgggttctgt ggtggtgcat ggttgtcgtc agctcgtgtc gtgagatgtt gggttaagtc   1020
              ccgcaacgag cgcaaccctc gttccatgtt gccagcacgt cgtggtgggg actcatggga   1080
<removed-apn>
              gactgccggg gtcaactcgg aggaaggtga ggacgacgtc aaatcatcat gccccttatg   1140
              tcttgggctt cacgcatgct acaatggccg gtacaatggg ttgcgatact gtgaggtgga   1200
              gctaatccca aaaagccggt ctcagttcgg attggggtct gcaactcgac cccatgaagt   1260
              cggagtcgct agtaatcgca gatcagcaac gctgcggtga atacgttccc gggccttgta   1320
              cacaccgccc gtcaagtcac gaaagttggt aacacccgaa gccggtggcc taacccttgt   1380
              ggggggagcc gtac                                                     1394
              <210>   7
              <211>   1421
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Bacillus sp.
              <400> 7
              atgcagtcga gcgaatcgat gggagcttgc tccctgagat tagcggcgga cgggtgagta     60
              acacgtgggc aacctgccta taagactggg ataacttcgg gaaaccggag ctaataccgg    120
              atacgttctt ttctcgcatg agagaagatg gaaagacggt ttacgctgtc acttatagat    180
              gggcccgcgg cgcattagct agttggtgag gtaatggctc accaaggcga cgatgcgtag    240
              ccgacctgag agggtgatcg gccacactgg gactgagaca cggcccagac tcctacggga    300
              ggcagcagta gggaatcttc cgcaatggac gaaagtctga cggagcaacg ccgcgtgaac    360
              gaagaaggcc ttcgggtcgt aaagttctgt tgttagggaa gaacaagtac cagagtaact    420
              gctggtacct tgacggtacc taaccagaaa gccacggcta actacgtgcc agcagccgcg    480
              gtaatacgta ggtggcaagc gttgtccgga attattgggc gtaaagcgcg cgcaggtggt    540
              tccttaagtc tgatgtgaaa gcccacggct caaccgtgga gggtcattgg aaactgggga    600
              acttgagtgc agaagaggaa agtggaattt ccaagtgtag cggtgaaatg cgtagagatt    660
              tggaggaaca ccagtggcga aggcgacttt ctggtctgta actgacactg aggcgcgaaa    720
                                                  Page 7

              gcgtggggag caaacaggat tagataccct ggtagtccac gccgtaaacg atgagtgcta    780
<removed-date>
              agtgttagag ggtttccgcc ctttagtgct gcagctaacg cattaagcac tccgcctggg    840
              gagtacggcc gcaaggctga aactcaaagg aattgacggg ggcccgcaca agcggtggag    900
              catgtggttt aattcgaacg atcccgttct accttaccag gtgatgacat cctctgacaa    960
              ccctagagat agggctttcc ccttcggggg acagagtgac aggtggtgca tggttgtcgt   1020
<removed-apn>
              cagctcgtgt cgtgagatgt tgggttaagt cccgcaacga gcgcaaccct tgatcttagt   1080
              tgccagcatt cagttgggca ctctaaggtg actgccggtg acaaaccgga ggaaggtggg   1140
              gatgacgtca aatcatcatg ccccttatga cctgggctac acacgtgcta caatggatgg   1200
              tacaaagggc tgcaaacctg cgaaggtaag cgaatcccat aaagccattc tcagttcgga   1260
              ttgcaggctg caactcgcct gcatgaagcc ggaatcgcta gtaatcgcgg atcagcatgc   1320
              cgcggtgaat acgttcccgg gccttgtaca caccgcccgt cacaccacga gagtttgtaa   1380
              cacccgaagt cggtgaggta accttcatgg agccagccgc c                       1421
              <210>   8
              <211>   1419
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Pantoea sp.
              <400> 8
              ccatgcagtc ggacggtagc acagaggagc ttgctcctcg ggtgacgagt ggcggacggg     60
              tgagtaatgt ctggggatct gcccgataga gggggataac cactggaaac ggtggctaat    120
              accgcaaaac gtcgcaagac caaagagggg gaccttcggg cctctcacta tcggatgaac    180
              ccagatggga ttagctagta ggcggggtaa cggcccacct aggcgacgat ccctagctgg    240
              tctgagagga tgaccagcca cactggaact gagacacggt ccagactcct acgggaggca    300
              gcagtgggga atattgcaca atgggcgcaa gcctgatgca gccatgccgc gtgtatgaag    360
              aaggccttcg ggttgtaaag tactttcagc ggggaggaag gcgatgtggt taataaccgc    420
              gtcgattgac gttacccgca gaagaagcac cggctaactc cgtgccagca gccgcggtaa    480
              tacggagggt gcaagcgtta atcggaatta ctgggcgtaa agcgcacgca ggcggtctgt    540
              taagtcagat gtgaaatccc cgggcttaac ctgggaactg catttgaaac tggcaggctt    600
              gagtctcgta gaggggggta gaatttccag gtgtagcggt gaaatgcgta gagatctgga    660
                                                  Page 8

              ggaataccgg tggcgaaggc ggccccctgg acgaagactg acgctcaggt gcgaaagcgt    720
<removed-date>
              ggggagcaaa caggattaga taccctggta gtccacgccg taaacgatgt cgacttggag    780
              gttgttccct tgaggagtgg cttccggagc taacgcgtta agtcgaccgc ctggggagta    840
              cggccgcaag gattaaactc aaatgaattg acgggggccc gcacaagcgg tggagcatgt    900
              ggtttaattc gatgcaacgc gaagaaccat acctactctt gacatccaga gaacttagca    960
<removed-apn>
              gagatgcttt ggtgccttcg ggaactctga gacaggtgct gcatggctgt cgtcagctcg   1020
              tgttgtgaaa tgttgggtta agtcccgcaa cgagcgcaac ccttatcctt tgttgccagc   1080
              gattcggtcg ggaactcaaa ggagactgcc ggtgataaac cggaggaagg tggggatgac   1140
              gtcaagtcat catggccctt acgagtaggg ctacacacgt gctacaatgg cgcatacaaa   1200
              gagaagcgac ctcgcgagag caagcggacc tcataaagtg cgtcgtagtc cggatcggag   1260
              tctgcaactc gactccgtga agtcggaatc gctagtaatc gtggatcaga atgccacggt   1320
              gaatacgttc ccgggccttg tacacaccgc ccgtcacacc atgggagtgg gttgcaaaag   1380
              aagtaggcta gcttaacctt cgggagggcg ctaccactt                          1419
              <210>   9
              <211>   1420
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Acinetobacter sp.
              <400> 9
              cacatgcagt cgagcgggga gagtagcttg ctacttgacc tagcggcgga cgggtgagta     60
              atgcttagga atctgcctat tagtggggga caacatctcg aaagggatgc taataccgca    120
              tacgtcctac gggagaaagc aggggacctt cgggccttgc gctaatagat gagcctaagt    180
              cggattagct agttggtggg gtaaaggcct accaaggcga cgatctgtag cgggtctgag    240
              aggatgatcc gccacactgg gactgagaca cggcccagac tcctacggga ggcagcagtg    300
              gggaatattg gacaatgggg ggaaccctga tccagccatg ccgcgtgtgt gaagaaggcc    360
              ttttggttgt aaagcacttt aagcgaggag gaggctaccg agattaatac tcttggatag    420
              tggacgttac tcgcagaata agcaccggct aactctgtgc cagcagccgc ggtaatacag    480
              agggtgcaag cgttaatcgg atttactggg cgtaaagcgc gcgtaggtgg ccaattaagt    540
              caaatgtgaa atccccgagc ttaacttggg aattgcattc gatactggtt ggctagagta    600
                                                  Page 9

              tgggagagga tggtagaatt ccaggtgtag cggtgaaatg cgtagagatc tggaggaata    660
<removed-date>
              ccgatggcga aggcagccat ctggcctaat actgacactg aggtgcgaaa gcatggggag    720
              caaacaggat tagataccct ggtagtccat gccgtaaacg atgtctacta gccgttgggg    780
              cctttgctgg ctttagtggc gcagctaacg cgataagtag accgcctggg gagtacggtc    840
              gcaagactaa aactcaaatg aattgacggg ggcccgcaca agcggtggag catgtggttt    900
<removed-apn>
              aattcgatgc aacgcgaagt agcttacctg gtcttgacat agtatcttct ttccagagat    960
              ggattggtgc cttcgggaac ttacatacag gtgctgcatg gctgtcgtca gctcgtgtcg   1020
              tgagatgttg ggttaagtcc cgcaacgagc gcaacccttt tccttatttg ccagcgggtt   1080
              aagccgggaa ctttaaggat actgccagtg acaaactgga ggaaggcggg gacgacgtca   1140
              agtcatcatg gcccttacga ccagggctac acacgtgcta caatggtcgg tacaaagggt   1200
              tgctacctcg cgagaggatg ctaatctcaa aaagccgatc gtagtccgga ttggagtctg   1260
              caactcgact ccatgaagtc ggaatcgcta gtaatcgcgg atcagaatgc cgcggtgaat   1320
              acgttcccgg gccttgtaca caccgcccgt cacaccatgg gagtttgttg caccagaagt   1380
              agggtaggtc cttaacgtct aagggaggac gctaccacgg                         1420
              <210>   10
              <211>   1436
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Paenibacillus sp.
              <400> 10
              atacatgcag tcgagcggac ttgcatgaga agcttgcttc tctgatggtt agcggcggac     60
              gggtgagtaa cacgtaggca cctgccctca agcttgggac aactaccgga aacggtagct    120
              aataccgaat agttgttttc ttctcctgaa gaaaactgga aagacggagc aatctgtcac    180
              ttggggatgg gcctgcggcg cattagctag ttggtggggt aacggctcac caaggcgacg    240
              atgcgtagcc gacctgagag ggtgatcggc cacactggga ctgagacacg gcccagactc    300
              ctacgggagg cagcagtagg gaatcttccg caatgggcga aagcctgacg gagcaatgcc    360
              gcgtgagtga tgaaggtttt cggatcgtaa agctctgttg ccagggaaga acgcttggga    420
              gagtaactgc tctcaaggtg acggtacctg agaagaaagc cccggctaac tacgtgccag    480
              cagccgcggt aatacgtagg gggcaagcgt tgtccggaat tattgggcgt aaagcgcgcg    540
                                                  Page 10

              caggcggtca tttaagtctg gtgtttaatc ccggggctca accccggatc gcactggaaa    600
<removed-date>
              ctgggtgact tgagtgcaga agaggagagt ggaattccac gtgtagcggt gaaatgcgta    660
              gatatgtgga ggaacaccag tggcgaagcg cgactctctg ggctgtaact gacgctgagg    720
              cgcgaaagcg tggggagcaa acaggattag ataccctggt agtccacgcc gtaaacgatg    780
              agtgctaggt gttaggggtt tcgataccct tggtgccgaa gttaacacat taagcactcc    840
<removed-apn>
              gcctggggag tacggtcgca agactgaaac tcaaaggaat tgacggggac ccgcacaagc    900
              agtggagtat gtggttttat tcgaagcaac gcgaagaacc ttaccaggtc ttgacatccc    960
              tctgaccggt acagagatgt acctttcctt cgggacagag gagacaggtg gtgcatggtt   1020
              gtcgtcagct cgtgtcgtga gatgttgggt taagtcccgc aacgagcgca acccttgatc   1080
              ttagttgcca gcacttcggg tgggcactct aaggtgactg ccggtgacaa accggaggaa   1140
              ggtggggatg acgtcaaatc atcatgcccc ttatgacctg ggctacacac gtactacaat   1200
              ggccggtaca acgggctgtg aagccgcgag gtggaacgaa tcctaaaaag ccggtctcag   1260
              ttcggattgc aggctgcaac tcgcctgcat gaagtcggaa ttgctagtaa tcgcggatca   1320
              gcatgccgcg gtgaatacgt tcccgggtct tgtacacacc gcccgtcaca ccacgagagt   1380
              ttataacacc cgaagtcggt ggggtaaccg caaggagcca gccgccgaag gtgatc       1436
                                                  Page 11

