  1001993559
                                             ABSTRACT
           A user may request a web page from an organization, such as a merchant's checkout
  web page, that requires entry of sensitive data. The merchant's checkout web page may
  include reference to a script file that provides hosted sensitive data form fields. In response
5 to rendering the merchant web page in a web browser of the user, a request to provide
  sensitive data form fields on the merchant web page may be received. The request may
  include a call to a function in a scripting file provided by a third party, and the provided file
  may cause one or more inline frames to be rendered in the web browser, each inline frame
  including a sensitive data form field. Data entered by the user in the sensitive data form
0 fields may be received by a third party payment processor device.
                                                   -21-

    1001993559
                          HOSTED SENSITIVE DATA FORM FIELDS FOR
                           COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITY STANDARDS
    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5  [0001]     This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 14/983,120, filed
    December 29, 2015, and U.S. Patent Application No. 15/599,085, filed May 18, 2017, both of
    which claim the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/165,611, filed on May
    22, 2015. All of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
    [0001A] Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2016/033650
 0  (published as WO 2016/191314), filed on <removed-date>.
    BACKGROUND
    Field
    [0002]     The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for securely
 5  providing data in compliance with data security standards.
    Related Art
    [0003]     More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic
    networks such as, for example, the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and
 '0 services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly
    between a conventional or on-line merchant or retailer and the consumer, and payment is
    typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also
    take place with the aid of an on-line or mobile payment service provider. Such payment
    service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing
25  with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere
    using a mobile device is one main reason why on-line and mobile purchases are growing very
    quickly.
    [0004]     Companies that process, store, or transmit sensitive data including credit card
    information, such as merchants offering goods or services on the Internet, must comply with
30  standards set by various organizations, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security
    Standard (PCI DSS). Compliance with the PCI DSS and other similar standards can be
    difficult for on-line merchants, as it may require extensive investment in computing
    equipment and other costs. Accordingly, some on-line merchants outsource payment
    functions, and therefore PCI DSS compliance, to third party payment processors, who are
                                                    -1-

    1001993559
    therefore responsible for compliance with industry standards. However, outsourcing these
    functions to third parties may have drawbacks, as the appearance and behavior of a third
    party form accepting payment information may not be consistent with the appearance and
    behavior of the on-line merchant's website.
 5  [0005]     Thus, there is a need for an improved system and method for complying with
    security standards for accepting sensitive data.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
    [0006]     Fig. 1 is a flow chart illustrating an embodiment of a method for providing, by a
 0  third party, input form fields for sensitive data on a web page provided by an organization.
    [0007]     Fig. 2 is a front view illustrating an embodiment of a payer device displaying a
    checkout web page with input form fields for sensitive data.
    [0008]     Fig. 3 is a schematic view illustrating an embodiment of a networked system.
    [0009]     Fig. 4 is a schematic view illustrating an embodiment of a computer system.
 5  [0010]     Fig. 5 is a schematic view illustrating an embodiment of a system provider device.
    [0011]     Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by
    referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference
    numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures, wherein
    showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and
 '0 not for purposes of limiting the same.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0012]     The present disclosure provides systems and methods for providing, by a third
    party, input form fields for sensitive data on a web page provided by an organization. In one
25  embodiment, the organization may generate a web page for a user to submit sensitive data.
    For example, the organization may be a merchant generating a checkout page for a user to
    purchase goods, which may require the user to enter in personal financial data like credit card
    information. Within the web page, the organization may designate one or more containers for
    each form field of sensitive data for the user to enter. The organization may also include a
30  reference to a third party script file within the generated web page, and one or more
    appearance options for each field of sensitive data for the user to enter. A user may request
    the generated web page over a network such as the Internet, using a web browser. In
    response, the third party may provide the one or more sensitive data form fields, which are
    rendered in the web browser of the user as inline frames according to the appearance options
                                                      -2-

    1001993559
    specified by the organization. The sensitive data form fields are therefore hosted by the third
    party, and not the organization. The user may enter his or her data in the sensitive data form
    fields. In response to submitting the form, the third party script file may cause the sensitive
    data entered by the user to be transmitted securely to the third party, and the remainder of the
 5  data to be transmitted to the organization. Accordingly, the organization does not store,
    receive or otherwise maintain the sensitive data, which may reduce the need for the
    organization to comply with security standards.
    [0013]     As described above, accepting credit card information or other sensitive data over
    the Internet may require compliance with various security standards, including but not limited
 0  to the PCI DSS standard. For example, the PCI DSS standard has secure network
    requirements, cardholder data requirements, periodic testing and monitoring of network
    resources, and other requirements. Within the standard, individual credit card issuers may
    impose their own additional requirements.
    [0014]     Accordingly, compliance with such standards can be technically difficult and costly.
 5  Failure to comply with such standards may lead to an inability to accept credit cards as a
    method of payment. While some merchants accepting such sensitive data may choose to
    comply with these standards by implementing various safeguards, various third parties
    provide payment processing services, such as credit card processing services, that shift the
    burden of compliance with standards from the merchant to the third party. Thus, the third
 '0 party is responsible for compliance with the security standards, and sensitive data is received
    by and maintained by the third party instead of the merchant.
    [0015]     One method that third parties may use to accept such sensitive data is to provide a
    software development kit (SDK) which provides user interface elements for accepting
    sensitive data. A merchant may use the SDK to easily add sensitive data form fields to a
25  payment or checkout form without extensive coding, and without the need to implement
    security compliance with security standards. However, such SDKs may have drawbacks or
    tradeoffs for such simple implementation.
    [0016]     In particular, these SDKs may not be highly customizable, and may have a standard
    appearance that is inconsistent with the merchant's website. Thus, because the appearance of
30  the sensitive data fields does not appear like the rest of the website, the user may become
    confused and unsure of the safety of entering his or her sensitive data. Additionally, sensitive
    data form fields provided by an SDK may not support translation for other languages or
    localization for different currencies. The SDK may also not allow the merchant to customize
                                                    -3-

    1001993559
    a checkout experience; for example, the user may be forced to enter in all necessary credit
    card information at one time, instead of entering the data on distinct web pages.
    [0017]     Thus, in one embodiment, a payment processor or other third party may provide an
    application programming interface (API) that provides hosted sensitive data form fields.
 5  Each sensitive data form field may be provided as a separate inline frame (iframe), and the
    API may support customization of the appearance of each inline frame. In one embodiment,
    the customization of each inline frame occurs using a style sheet language such as cascading
    style sheets, or a similar language. In one embodiment, the hosted sensitive data form fields
    are provided by a JavaScript file provided and hosted by a third party payment processor and
 0  which is referenced in a web page of the merchant and rendered by a browser of a user
    accessing the web page.
    [0018]     From the merchant's perspective, usage of the API has significant benefits. In one
    embodiment, the merchant adds a minimal amount of code to its web page, such as a
    checkout web page, for each sensitive data field utilized by the merchant (e.g., credit card
 5  number, expiration date, card security code, etc.) and hosted by the third party. Further, in
    one embodiment, the merchant may style the hosted fields by specifying style sheet language
    variables for color, font, font family, font size, font size adjustment, font stretch, font style,
    font variant, font variant alternates, font variant for capitals, font variant for East Asian
    languages, font variant ligatures, font variant for numbers, font weights, line heights, outlines,
 '0 opacity, text shadow, transitions, and font smoothing for each sensitive data field utilized by
    the merchant.
    [0019]     Referring now to FIG. 1, a method 100 of providing input form fields for sensitive
    data on a web page provided by an organization is illustrated. The input form fields are
    hosted by a third party payment processor. In the method 100 described below, an
25  organization, such as a merchant, wishes to provide a checkout web page that accepts
    payment by credit card. Accepting payment by credit card requires compliance with various
    standards, as described above; in the example of method 100 the merchant sets up a
    relationship with a third party payment processor such as, for example, Braintree of Chicago,
    IL, to perform the credit card functions, including the receipt, storing, and secure
30  maintenance of the credit card data. Thus, the merchant may, in one example, set up an
    account with the third party payment processor, and provide details about the merchant to
    start accepting payments by credit card.
    [0020]     The method 100 begins at block 102, where the merchant generates a web page for
    accepting sensitive data. Thus, in one embodiment, the merchant may create a web page on a
                                                     -4-

    1001993559
    merchant device executing web server software which hosts the merchant's web site. In one
    embodiment, in generating a web page, such as a checkout web page, to accept sensitive data
    with hosted form fields for the sensitive data, the merchant may include a JavaScript file
    provided and hosted by the third party payment processor in the checkout web page. This
 5  may be performed in a script tag in an HTML file, in one embodiment. In one embodiment,
    including the JavaScript file requires a reference to a third party payment processor device,
    such as a server of the third party payment processor, and may be referred to by a uniform
    resource locator (URL). In one embodiment, the merchant may configure integration of
    hosted fields for sensitive data using a setup function provided by the JavaScript file, which
 0  may accept one or more variables such as a payment processor client token and one or more
    options for the function. The options for the setup function may include a reference to a
    document object model (DOM) of a checkout form element on the merchant's checkout page,
    and one or more options for the hosted fields. The setup function may be invoked within the
    checkout web page.
 5  [0021]     In one embodiment, the options for the hosted fields include also include an object
    which includes stylesheet language corresponding to the sensitive data form fields. In one
    embodiment, the options for the hosted fields also include an identification of a function that
    is called when an event occurs in the hosted fields rendered on the merchant checkout page.
    In one embodiment, the options for the hosted fields also include field options for each
 '0 sensitive data form field included in the merchant's web page. For example, various field
    options may exist for the credit card number and expiration date fields. In one embodiment,
    the expiration date field may be split into two fields, expiration month and expiration year.
    Further, in one embodiment, the options for the hosted fields also include field options for the
    card verification number (e.g., CVV, CID, or other 3 or 4 digit verification number) and/or
25  postal code or zip code.
    [0022]     Inside each of the credit card number, expiration date, expiration month, expiration
    year, card verification number, and postal code, various field options may be specified. Such
    field options may specify, for example, a string used to query a document object model for a
    container which identifies the particular hosted data field. The string may thus be used to
30  apply the stylesheet options for the particular hosted data field. In one embodiment, the field
    options may also specify placeholder data for the field. Thus, for example, the expiration
    month field may initially be populated by a string "MM" signifying that the user should enter
    a two-digit month number in the expiration month field.
                                                    -5-

   1001993559
   [0023]     Once the merchant has included the JavaScript file provided by the third party
   payment processor in the checkout web page, including the variables and options needed for
   the setup function, the merchant may create the remainder of the checkout form in the web
   page using HTML. In one embodiment, the merchant may define containers in the HTML
 5 web page, in place of typical input elements that would ordinarily be used for sensitive data,
   such as credit card input fields. Thus, for example, the merchant may add "div" containers
   for each of the credit card number, card verification number, and expiration date sensitive
   data form fields.
   [0024]     In one embodiment, after adding the necessary HTML for the checkout form, the
 0 merchant may specify the aforementioned options for styling the sensitive data form fields in
   the options field of the setup function. For each field, the merchant may specify appearance
   options and other options using a stylesheet language. In one embodiment, the merchant may
   specify particular options for all sensitive data form fields. In one embodiment, the merchant
   may specify one or more options for specific sensitive data form fields. Further, in one
 5 embodiment, the merchant may specify element states for the sensitive data form fields; for
   example, a sensitive data form field may appear blue when it is selected or focused.
   Similarly, a sensitive data form field may appear green if a valid credit card number is
   entered, or red if an invalid credit card number is entered. Further, the maximum width and
   height of each iframe element may also be set by the stylesheet of the merchant.
 O [0025]     In one embodiment, the third party may support classes which are toggled on a
   given container, based on various events. For example, when a sensitive data form field
   receives and loses focus, a class may be toggled, and the appearance of the field may change.
   Similarly, when a value entered in a sensitive data form field changes between invalid and
   valid, a class may be toggled, and the appearance of the field may change. Further, when a
25 value entered in a sensitive data form field becomes complete and valid, the appearance of
   the field may change in response to a class being toggled. In one embodiment, CSS
   transition, such as color transitions, may also be specified for various properties.
   [0026]     In one embodiment, the JavaScript file may support one or more event handlers,
   which may be subscribed to using a callback function (such as "onFieldEvent"). An event
30 object may include a number of different values which can be used to change the appearance
   of a sensitive data form field in a number of different ways. For example, an event object
   may have a type variable that returns a focus, blur, or field state change value, each of which
   can be used to change the appearance of a sensitive data form field. Similarly, the event
   object can return a Boolean value of true or false based on whether the input field is currently
                                                    -6-

    1001993559
    focused. The event object can also return a Boolean value of true or false based on the future
    validity of the input value. For example, if a user enters in "41" as the first two digits of a
    credit card number, the future validity of the input value is true; while if a user enters in "4a"
    as the first two digits of the credit card number, the future validity of the input value is false.
 5  This may be used to quickly signal the user that a correction is needed. The event object can
    also return a Boolean value of true or false depending on whether or not the value of the
    associated input field is fully qualified and valid. The event object can also return an object
    with a container referring to a document object model element associated with an event, and a
    string mapping to one of the sensitive data fields. Further, the event object may also return
 0  an object variable with a determined card type based on the credit card number (e.g., Visa,
    American Express, MasterCard, etc.).
    [0027]     Returning the object variable with a determined card type may be useful, in one
    example, to provide an accurate length of a credit card number and an accurate length and
    name of a card security code. For example, American Express card numbers are 15 digits
 5  with a 4 digit card verification number, while Visa and MasterCard card numbers are 16
    digits with a 3 digit card verification number. Thus, the event object can be used to return a
    correct card type and thereby verify that the length of the credit card number and card
    verification number are correct. In one embodiment, the options for the JavaScript function
    may also include an option to permit payment by a payment service provider, such as PayPal
 '0 Inc. of San Jose, CA, instead of by credit card or other payment method.
    [0028]     Once the merchant has generated the web page and added the desired options for the
    hosted form fields for the sensitive data, method 100 proceeds to block 104. At block 104, a
    user, such as a customer of the merchant, requests the generated web page. Thus, for
    example, a user device or payer device, such as a mobile telephone or personal computer,
25  may request the checkout web page over a network, such as the Internet, from the merchant
    device hosting the merchant's web site. In one embodiment, when a user requests the
    generated web page, such as a checkout page, the JavaScript file provided and hosted by the
    third party payment processor may be requested and executed. Thus, for example, the
    JavaScript file may be requested by the user device's browser and retrieved from a third party
30  payment processor device on which it is stored. The JavaScript file may then be executed by
    the user device's web browser, and in response, may generate an inline frame for each
    sensitive data form field used by the merchant web page, using one or more functions in the
    JavaScript file. In turn, the inline frame for each sensitive data form field used by the
    merchant web page may be styled according to the various options selected by the merchant,
                                                    -7-

    1001993559
    and rendered in the browser of the customer according to those options. The user can then
    enter in his or her data into each sensitive data form field on the web page. As the user enters
    in data into the sensitive data form fields, each field may change its appearance according to
    the events described above. For example, if the user enters in a valid credit card number, the
 5  credit card number field may change color to indicate a valid number.
    [0029]     In one embodiment, when the JavaScript file provided and hosted by the third party
    payment processor is executed, using JavaScript functions, an external inline frame (for
    example, an inline frame for the web page itself) may emit an asynchronous message to
    initialize one or more dependencies which generate the hosted sensitive data form fields. In
 0  response, the internal inline frames may be generated, one for each hosted sensitive data form
    field, and inform the external inline frame of their existence. Further, the external inline
    frame may designate one of the internal inline frames as an orchestrator. In one embodiment,
    the internal inline frame designated as the orchestrator may be, for example, the credit card
    number internal inline frame. The orchestrator internal inline frame may request a
 5  configuration, and in response, create a model object. The orchestrator may also distribute a
    reference to the configuration and the model object to the other internal inline frames. To
    complete the rendering of the sensitive data form fields, the orchestrator may inform the
    external inline frame that all dependencies have been satisfied, and trigger a "ready" function
    or variable.
 '0 [0030]     Method 100 then proceeds to block 106, where the user may submit the completed
    form. In one embodiment, the user selects a submit button to submit the data. In one
    embodiment, when the setup function of the JavaScript file is executed, it may take over the
    submit event of the form on the checkout web page. The JavaScript file provided by the third
    party payment processor may pass the data in the sensitive data form fields to the third party
25  payment processor device, which may be a gateway server or other server of the third party
    payment processor. Thus, when a user attempts to submit a form, the JavaScript file included
    in the web page may securely collect the data entered in the sensitive data form fields, and
    attempt to tokenize the data, such as the credit card information. The data entered in the
    sensitive data form fields may be securely transmitted to the third party payment processor.
30  In one embodiment, the data entered in the sensitive data form fields is encrypted prior to
    transmission. In one embodiment, the data is encrypted by a function provided in the
    JavaScript file, and is encrypted using a public key provided by the third party payment
    processor. In one embodiment, the form is submitted with a hidden input for a payment
    method nonce, which may be transmitted to the merchant's web server. The payment method
                                                    -8-

    1001993559
    nonce may be used to charge the customer's card. Other information on the checkout web
    page may be transmitted to a merchant device, such as a web server of the merchant.
    [0031]     Method 100 then proceeds to block 108, where the data is received by the third
    party payment processor. The third party payment processor may then decrypt the data
 5  entered in the sensitive data form fields, and attempt to charge the credit card of the user. For
    example, a third party payment processor device may communicate with an account provider
    device (e.g., a credit card company server) to charge the credit card of the user. In one
    embodiment, the third party payment processor stores the credit card information securely in
    compliance with applicable security standards.
 0  [0032]     Thus, because the JavaScript file is hosted by the third party payment processor, and
    because the sensitive data is transmitted to the third party payment processor and not
    maintained with the merchant, compliance with standards, such as PCI DSS, is offloaded to
    the third party payment processor and not the merchant. Further, because the JavaScript file
    provided by the third party payment processor generates an inline frame for each sensitive
 5  data field, malicious JavaScript files cannot be inserted into the sensitive data field or the
    form to compromise the customer's sensitive data.
    [0033]     In one embodiment, the JavaScript file provided and hosted by the third party
    payment processor may include additional functionality, such as validating a credit card
    number, or automatically determining the type of a credit card, based on its number.
 '0 [0034]     Referring now to Fig. 2, an example of a web page with hosted form fields for
    sensitive data is illustrated. In the example of Fig. 2, a payer device 200, such as a mobile
    telephone or table computing device of a user, includes a display 202 displaying a web
    browser 204. In the example of Fig. 2, the web browser 204 displays a checkout web page
    206 of a merchant. The checkout web page 206 may display various information, such as a
25  breakdown of costs 208 for a user's purchase. The checkout web page 206 may be requested
    by the web browser 204 executing on payer device 200 over a network from a merchant
    device.
    [0035]     Additionally, the checkout web page 206 includes a plurality of hosted form fields
    for sensitive data 210a-210c. The hosted form fields 210a-210c may include, in the example
30  of Fig. 2, a credit card number field 210a, an expiration date field 2 1Ob, and a card
    verification number field 210c. As described above, each hosted form field for sensitive data
    may be generated by the web browser of payer device 200 executing functions in a JavaScript
    file from a third party payment processor. As shown in Fig. 2, the hosted form fields 210a
    210c may have the same appearance as the remainder of the checkout web page 206, in that
                                                    -9-

    1001993559
    they use the same font and the same font size as the breakdown of costs 208. As described
    above, the merchant may specify one or more appearance options using a stylesheet
    language. The appearance options may be passed in as input to a function of the JavaScript
    file, which uses the options to style the hosted form fields 210a-210c. As explained above,
 5  the options may also include placeholder text for one or more hosted form fields. In the
    example of Fig. 2, the expiration date field has placeholder text of "MM/YYYY" suggesting
    that the user of payer device 200 should enter in a two digit month and four digit year for the
    expiration date. The checkout web page 206 may also include one or more form fields 212
    which are not provided by the JavaScript file, and may be included by the merchant in
 0  creating the checkout web page. The checkout web page 206 also includes submit button
    214. As explained above, upon pressing the submit button 214, the information entered into
    the hosted sensitive data form fields 210a-210c may be securely transmitted over the Internet
    to a third party payment processor, which may include encrypting the data before
    transmission. The information entered into form field 212 may be transmitted to the
 5  merchant device.
    [0036]     Referring now to Fig. 3, an embodiment of a network-based system 300 for
    implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown, network
    based system 300 may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and/or software
    components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described
 '0 embodiments. Exemplary servers may include, for example, stand-alone and enterprise-class
    servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT® OS, a UNIX® OS, a LINUX® OS,
    or other suitable server-based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in Fig. 3
    may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and/or the services
    provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may
25  be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be
    operated and/or maintained by the same or different entities.
    [0037]     The embodiment of the networked system 300 illustrated in Fig. 3 includes a
    plurality of payer devices 302, a plurality of merchant devices 304, a payment service
    provider device 306, an account provider device 307, a system provider device 308, and/or a
30  third party payment processor device 309, in communication over a network 310. Any of the
    payer devices 302 may be the payer device 200 operated by the users, discussed above. The
    merchant devices 304 may be the merchant devices discussed above and may be operated by
    the merchants discussed above. For example, the merchant devices 304 may The payment
    service provider device 306 may be the payment service provider devices discussed above
                                                   -10-

    1001993559
    and may be operated by a payment service provider such as, for example, PayPal Inc. of San
    Jose, CA. The account provider devices 307 may be the account provider devices discussed
    above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as, for example,
    credit card account providers, bank account providers, savings account providers, and a
 5  variety of other account providers known in the art. The system provider device 308 may be
    the system provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the system providers
    discussed above.
    [0038]     The payer devices 302, merchant devices 304, payment service provider device 306,
    account provider device 307, system provider device 308, and/or third party payment
 0  processor device 309 may each include one or more processors, memories, and other
    appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and/or data stored
    on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications, data, and
    steps described herein. For example, such instructions may be stored in one or more
    computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and/or
 5  external to various components of the system 300, and/or accessible over the network 310.
    [0039]     The network 310 may be implemented as a single network or a combination of
    multiple networks. For example, in various embodiments, the network 310 may include the
    Internet and/or one or more intranets, landline networks, wireless networks, and/or other
    appropriate types of networks.
 '0 [0040]     The payer device 302 may be implemented using any appropriate combination of
    hardware and/or software configured for wired and/or wireless communication over network
    310. For example, in one embodiment, the payer device 302 may be implemented as a
    personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments, the
    payer device 302 may be a smart phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), laptop computer,
25  and/or other types of computing devices.
    [0041]     The payer device 302 may include one or more browser applications which may be
    used, for example, to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse
    information available over the network 310. For example, in one embodiment, the browser
    application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available
30  over the Internet.
    [0042]     The payer device 302 may also include one or more toolbar applications which may
    be used, for example, to provide user-side processing for performing desired tasks in
    response to operations selected by the payer. In one embodiment, the toolbar application may
    display a user interface in connection with the browser application.
                                                  -11-

    1001993559
    [0043]     The payer device 302 may further include other applications as may be desired in
    particular embodiments to provide desired features to the payer device 302. In particular, the
    other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment
    service provider through the payment service provider device 306. The other applications
 5  may also include security applications for implementing user-side security features,
    programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming
    interfaces (APIs) over the network 310, or other types of applications. Email and/or text
    applications may also be included, which allow the payer to send and receive emails and/or
    text messages through the network 310. Information feed provider applications may also be
 0  included, which allow the payer or user to access an information feed provider as discussed
    herein. The payer device 302 includes one or more user and/or device identifiers which may
    be implemented, for example, as operating system registry entries, cookies associated with
    the browser application, identifiers associated with hardware of the payer device 302, or other
    appropriate identifiers, such as a phone number. In one embodiment, the user identifier may
 5  be used by the payment service provider device 306 and/or account provider device 307 to
    associate the user with a particular account as further described herein. In one embodiment,
    the user identifier may be used to view information posts, as described herein.
    [0044]     The merchant device 304 may be maintained, for example, by a conventional or on
    line merchant, conventional or digital goods seller, individual seller, and/or application
 '0 developer offering various products and/or services in exchange for payment to be received
    conventionally or over the network 310. In this regard, the merchant device 304 may include
    a database identifying available products and/or services (e.g., collectively referred to as
    items) which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer.
    [0045]     The merchant device 304 also includes a checkout application which may be
25  configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be
    configured to accept payment information from the user through the payer device 302, the
    account provider through the account provider device 307, from the payment service provider
    through the payment service provider device 306, and/or from the third party payment
    processor device 309, over the network 310. The merchant device 304 may also include web
30  server software for hosting a merchant web site. The merchant device 304 may also
    communicate with third party payment processor device 309 over the network 310 to receive
    an approval for a credit card transaction requested by a user utilizing a payer device 302.
    [0046]     Referring now to Fig. 4, an embodiment of a computer system 400 suitable for
    implementing, for example, the payer device 200 or 302, merchant device 304, payment
                                                   -12-

    1001993559
    service provider device 306, account provider device 307, and/or third party payment
    processor device 309, is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by
    customers, merchants, payment service providers, third party payment processors, and/or
    system providers in the system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system
 5  600 in a manner as follows.
    [0047]     In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure, computer system
    400, such as a computer and/or a network server, includes a bus 402 or other communication
    mechanism for communicating information, which interconnects subsystems and
    components, such as a processing component 404 (e.g., processor, micro-controller, digital
 0  signal processor (DSP), etc.), a system memory component 406 (e.g., RAM), a static storage
    component 608 (e.g., ROM), a disk drive component 410 (e.g., magnetic or optical), a
    network interface component 412 (e.g., modem or Ethernet card), a display component 414
    (e.g., CRT or LCD), an input component 418 (e.g., keyboard, keypad, or virtual keyboard), a
    cursor control component 420 (e.g., mouse, pointer, or trackball), a location determination
 5  component 422 (e.g., a Global Positioning System (GPS) device as illustrated, a cell tower
    triangulation device, and/or a variety of other location determination devices known in the
    art), and/or a camera component 423. In one implementation, the disk drive component 410
    may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.
    [0048]     In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, the computer system 400
 '0 performs specific operations by the processor 404 executing one or more sequences of
    instructions contained in the memory component 406, such as described herein with respect
    to the payer device 200 or 302, merchant device 304, payment service provider device 306,
    account provider device 307, and/or third party payment processor device 309. Such
    instructions may be read into the system memory component 406 from another computer
25  readable medium, such as the static storage component 408 or the disk drive component 410.
    In other embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with
    software instructions to implement the present disclosure.
    [0049]     Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium, which may refer to any
    medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor 404 for execution. Such a
30  medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile
    media, and transmission media. In one embodiment, the computer readable medium is non
    transitory. In various implementations, non-volatile media includes optical or magnetic
    disks, such as the disk drive component 410, volatile media includes dynamic memory, such
    as the system memory component 406, and transmission media includes coaxial cables,
                                                   -13-

    1001993559
    copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires that comprise the bus 402. In one example,
    transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated
    during radio wave and infrared data communications.
    [0050]     Some common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy
 5  disk, flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any
    other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
    holes, RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, carrier
    wave, or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment,
    the computer readable media is non-transitory.
 0  [0051]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, execution of instruction
    sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system 400.
    In various other embodiments of the present disclosure, a plurality of the computer systems
    400 coupled by a communication link 424 to the network 310 (e.g., such as a LAN, WLAN,
    PTSN, and/or various other wired or wireless networks, including telecommunications,
 5  mobile, and cellular phone networks) may perform instruction sequences to practice the
    present disclosure in coordination with one another.
    [0052]     The computer system 400 may transmit and receive messages, data, information and
    instructions, including one or more programs (i.e., application code) through the
    communication link 424 and the network interface component 412. The network interface
 '0 component 412may include an antenna, either separate or integrated, to enable transmission
    and reception via the communication link 424. Received program code may be executed by
    processor 404 as received and/or stored in disk drive component 410 or some other non
    volatile storage component for execution.
    [0053]     Referring now to Fig. 5, an embodiment of a system provider device 500 is
25  illustrated. In an embodiment, the device 500 may be the third party system provider device
    500 discussed above. The device 500 includes a communication engine 502 that is coupled
    to the network 310 and to a hosted sensitive data form field engine 504 that is coupled to a
    database 506. The communication engine 502 may be software or instructions stored on a
    computer-readable medium that allows the device 500 to send and receive information over
30  the network 310. The hosted sensitive data form field engine 504 may be software or
    instructions stored on a computer-readable medium that is operable to receive, in response to
    rendering of a merchant web page in a web browser of a user, a request to provide, by the
    third party, sensitive data form fields on the merchant web page, wherein the request includes
    a call to a function in a scripting file provided by the third party, cause, by the provided file,
                                                     -14-

    1001993559
    one or more inline frames to be rendered in the web browser of a user according to
    appearance options specified by the merchant, wherein each rendered inline frame includes a
    sensitive data form field, and receive in response to a user action, data entered by the user in
    the sensitive data form fields, and/or provide any of the other functionality that is discussed
 5  above. While the database 506 has been illustrated as located in the system provider device
    500, one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the hosted sensitive data
    form field engine 504 through the network 310 without departing from the scope of the
    present disclosure.
    [0054]     Where applicable, various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be
 0  implemented using hardware, software, or combinations of hardware and software. Also,
    where applicable, the various hardware components and/or software components set forth
    herein may be combined into composite components comprising software, hardware, and/or
    both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable, the
    various hardware components and/or software components set forth herein may be separated
 5  into sub-components comprising software, hardware, or both without departing from the
    scope of the present disclosure. In addition, where applicable, it is contemplated that
    software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice-versa.
    [0055]     Software, in accordance with the present disclosure, such as program code and/or
    data, may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that
 '0 software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific
    purpose computers and/or computer systems, networked and/or otherwise. Where applicable,
    the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed, combined into composite
    steps, and/or separated into sub-steps to provide features described herein.
    [0056]     The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise
25  forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such, it is contemplated that various alternate
    embodiments and/or modifications to the present disclosure, whether explicitly described or
    implied herein, are possible in light of the disclosure. For example, the above embodiments
    have focused on merchants and customers; however, a customer or consumer can pay, or
    otherwise interact with any type of recipient, including charities and individuals. The
30  payment does not have to involve a purchase, but may be a loan, a charitable contribution, a
    gift, etc. Thus, merchant as used herein can also include charities, individuals, and any other
    entity or person receiving a payment from a customer. Having thus described embodiments
    of the present disclosure, persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may
                                                    -15-

1001993559
be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus,
the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.
                                               -16-

    1001993559
    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1. A system, comprising:
 5           non-transitory memory storing instructions; and
             one or more hardware processors coupled to the non-transitory memory and operable
    to execute instructions from the non-transitory memory to cause the system to perform
    operations comprising:
                       providing first programming code that can be used as part of a webpage, the
 0           code being executable by a user device when accessing the webpage;
                       receiving an identification token from a user device executing at least a
             portion of the code in response to accessing the webpage;
                       responding to the user device in response to receiving the identification token;
                       receiving one or more API calls from the user device; and
 5                     in response to receiving the one or more API calls and the identification token,
             sending second programming code to the user device that will generate a plurality of
             iframes when executed by the user device, the plurality of iframes being hosted by the
             system, each of the plurality of iframes providing a data entry field that gathers input
             and is configured to communicate the input directly with the system, each data entry
 10           field stylized based on a configuration specified in the one or more API calls.
    2. The system of claim 1, wherein each data entry field is hosted by the system.
    3. The system of claim 1, wherein the configuration comprises a color of the data entry.
25
    4. The system of claim 1, wherein responding to the user device in response to receiving the
    identification token comprises responding to the user device with a client instance for
    interactions with an API.
30  5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise:
             receiving payment card information from the user device through the data entry field;
             receiving a payment token from the user device;
             receiving a payment request and the payment token from an operator of the webpage;
                                                      -17-

    1001993559
             facilitating a payment for the payment request using the payment card information in
    response to the payment token received from the operator matching the payment token from
    the user device.
 5  6. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise:
             receiving payment card information from the user device through the data entry field;
             providing a payment token to the user device;
             receiving a payment request and the payment token from an operator of the webpage;
    and
 0           facilitating a payment for the payment request using the payment card information in
    response to the payment token received from the operator matching the payment token from
    the user device.
    7. The system of claim 1, wherein the identification token is also an authorization token.
 5
    8. A computer implemented method, comprising:
             providing first programming code that can be used as part of a webpage, the code
    being executable by a user device when accessing the webpage;
 10          receiving an identification token from a user device executing at least a portion of the
    code in response to accessing the webpage;
             responding to the user device in response to receiving the identification token;
             receiving one or more API calls from the user device; and
             in response to receiving the one or more API calls and the identification token,
25  sending second programming code to the user device that will generate a plurality of iframes
    when executed by the user device, the plurality of iframes being hosted by the system, each
    of the plurality of iframes providing a data entry field that gathers input and is configured to
    communicate the input directly with the system, each data entry field stylized based on a
    configuration specified in the one or more API calls.
30
    9. The method of claim 8, wherein the configuration comprises a color of the data entry field.
    10. The method of claim 8, wherein the configuration comprises a color.
                                                   - 1 Pl-

    1001993559
    11. The method of claim 8, wherein the configuration comprises a color of the data entry
    field.
    12. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the data entry fields is prepopulated
 5
    13. The method of claim 8, further comprising causing the user device to display an
    indication of error through at least one of the plurality of iframes in response to receiving
    invalid information.
 0  14. The method of claim 13, wherein the indication is changing a color of the data entry
    field.
    15. The method of claim 8, wherein the configuration comprises a maximum width of each
    iframe.
 5
    16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising a plurality of machine-readable
    instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, are adapted to cause the one or
    more processors to perform a method comprising:
             providing first programming code that can be used as part of a webpage, the code
 '0 being executable by a user device when accessing the webpage;
             receiving an identification token from a user device executing at least a portion of the
    code in response to accessing the webpage;
             responding to the user device in response to receiving the identification token;
             receiving one or more API calls from the user device; and
25           in response to receiving the one or more API calls and the identification token,
    sending second programming code to the user device that will generate a plurality of iframes
    when executed by the user device, the plurality of iframes being hosted by the system, each
    of the plurality of iframes providing a data entry field that gathers input and is configured to
    communicate the input directly with the system, each data entry field stylized based on a
30  configuration specified in the one or more API calls.
    17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein at least one of the
    data entry fields indicates that data entered in the at least one data entry field is valid.
                                                    -10Q-

  1001993559
  18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the indication is a
  change of a color of the at least one data entry field.
5 19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein each data entry field
  is hosted by the system.
  20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further
  comprise receiving payment information from the user device through the plurality of iframes
0 displayed as part of the webpage and conducts a purchase with a merchant hosting the
  webpage without the merchant receiving the payment information.
                                                 -20-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
