                                                  27
                                            ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a or super charged intake tract diverter valve system having a
valve body 1 adapted to be sealingly mounted to said intake tract upstream of a throttle valve
associated with said intake tract, said body 1 including a closure means 10 to operatively close
off a diversion aperture 4.1 in said intake tract 3 so as to vent pressurised gases in said intake
tract 3 to a bypass path or atmosphere at predetermined times, said system including an
actuation means to allow said closure means 10 to open whereby pressurised gases in said
intake tract will pass through said diversion aperture 4.1 into said bypass path or to atmosphere,
characterised in that said closure means 10 includes a chamber 5.1 associated with said valve
body 1 and a valve member 10 which cooperates with said chamber 5.1 to close said diversion
aperture 4.1, said valve member 10 including at least one transfer aperture 12 through it, said
valve member 10 being configured so that by means of said pressurised gases, said valve
member has a net force provided from a surface area differential with respect to opposite sides
of said valve member 10 so as to close said diversion aperture 4.1 or keep it closed, when gas
pressure on opposite sides of said valve member is equal, and when a pressure differential is
created so that an upstream side 10.1 of said valve member 10 has pressure greater than a
downstream side 5.1, then said valve member 10 will move to open said diversion aperture,
said system including said actuation means associated with said chamber 5.1 or said valve
member 10, whereby when controlled to do so, said actuation means will open a control
aperture 6 associated with said chamber 5.1 or said valve 10, to thereby create said pressure
differential on the valve member 10 to thereby cause same to open said diversion aperture 4.1.

                                                   1
        Improved Motor Vehicle Turbo Or Supercharger Diverter Valve System
Field of the invention
[001] The present invention relates to diverter valve systems used with turbocharged or
supercharged motor vehicles.
Background of the invention
[002]    Most modern turbocharged vehicle engines include some form of factory-fitted blow-off
or bypass valve in the intake tract, the purpose of which is to open during throttle closure to
provide a relief path from a diversion aperture for pressurised air that would otherwise cause
significant pressure spikes, resulting in damage or reduced life-span of the turbocharger, and
also an unpleasant fluttering noise that is deemed unacceptable in a road-going passenger car.
[003] There is also a potential performance improvement, in that without a relief path, rapid
throttle closure and the resulting pressure spike can rapidly slow the turbo compressor, leading
to a longer delay in returning to peak boost when the throttle is re-opened (i.e. increased turbo
lag). Similarly, allowing the bypass valve to relieve too much pressure can also have an adverse
effect on turbo lag - evacuating the entire volume of the intake tract means that despite
maintaining a higher compressor speed over the short term, when the throttle is re-opened the
intake tract must be re-pressurised which causes an increase in lag.
[004]    Many factory-fitted bypass valves perform additional tasks, such as limiting boost
pressure for engine protection in the event of higher-than-normal boost pressure being
detected, and momentary power reduction when required for traction control or during a
gearshift in the case of automatic transmissions.
[005]    Factory or OEM fitted bypass valves. Until recently, most factory-fitted bypass valves
have been located somewhere on the engine's intake tract downstream of the turbo
compressor, usually being mounted either by hose or flange connection. The vented air from
the bypass valve is then directed back to the turbo compressor intake via another hose or duct,
thus forming a bypass loop around the compressor.
[006]    Newer implementations include a mounting flange built directly into the turbo's
compressor cover, which includes separate paths for both the incoming pressure and the
vented air to be recirculated in the one flange.
[007] The factory bypass valve can be fitted to this type of flange, and is a direct-actuated
solenoid type, that is controlled by a signal from the car's Engine Control Unit (ECU). This type

                                                   2
of valve features an electric solenoid coil which has a plunger, on which plunger is mounted a
valve member to open or close the diversion aperture in the intake tract. The plunger and valve
member is biased to the closed position by a spring. When the solenoid is energised, this pulls
the plunger into the solenoid coil against the bias of the spring, and the valve member will thus
open the diversion aperture. When de-energised, the plunger and the valve member are
returned by the spring to the closed condition. In this system the plunger is connected directly to
valve member that opens and closes the diversion aperture and thus bypass path.
[008] The OEM system operates as follows: the ECU monitors the accelerator pedal position,
and if a rapid reduction in accelerator pedal position is detected, the ECU energises the
solenoid coil to open the valve member and thus the bypass path. The ECU typically holds the
bypass valve open for approximately 2 seconds, unless it detects that the accelerator pedal
position is increased, at which point it will immediately de-energise the solenoid coil and thus
close the diversion aperture and the bypass path.
[009]   There are three known versions of the factory diverter valve used: the first type uses a
diaphragm and poppet-style valve that is connected to the solenoid plunger. There are holes in
the face of the piston that transfer pressure to the back of the diaphragm in order to balance the
opposing forces that result from the pressure acting on the areas in front of and behind the
diaphragm, so that the sum of the forces is theoretically zero. This then means that when
energised, the solenoid coil is able to pull the plunger, diaphragm and poppet valve open
against the return spring, thereby opening up diversion aperture and the bypass path. When the
solenoid is de-energised, the return spring returns the plunger, diaphragm and poppet valve to
the closed position.
[010] The second type uses a plastic piston type valve that is connected to the solenoid
plunger. Again, there are holes located in the face of the piston to equalise pressure front and
back, thereby theoretically creating no resultant force. It operates in the same way as the
diaphragm type described above.
[011]   The third type is the same as the second type, except it features a slotted "basket" that
shrouds the piston. Its purpose can only be assumed to aid closure when the piston is open and
the solenoid is then de-energised.
[012]   Deficiencies of factory-fitted bypass valves. These factory-fitted bypass valve types
all share a common operating principle, which is primarily designed to eliminate pressure spikes
and the associated noise. The ECU can only operate the solenoid in two states - on or off.
Therefore, because the valve is directly connected to the solenoid plunger in all cases, the valve
can only be open or shut. No method is provided for varying the opening size in response to the
pressure in the intake tract, and as a result, turbo lag on these cars is less than optimised.

                                                    3
[013]   In addition, the evolution of the factory-fitted bypass valves indicates that there are
inherent deficiencies in the design of the valve itself.
[014] An inherent deficiency with the first type is that it is commonly known to fail even under
normal operating conditions by rupturing of the diaphragm or tearing of the face seal on the
piston. The second and third types seek to solve this problem of torn diaphragms, however the
fact that the piston is made from plastic means that a close toleranced fit cannot be achieved
between the piston and the sleeve. Since there is no diaphragm to seal this gap, a significant
amount of air is able to leak from the rear chamber of the piston past the gap and into the
recirculation path. This situation is less than ideal for performance, since pressurised air is
being lost. Secondly, the piston type valve suffers a condition where it is unable to close,
resulting in significant power loss. Once opened and when there is significant air being
bypassed, if the throttle is re-opened very quickly and the solenoid de-energised, the piston is
unable to close because of the weak return spring and the un-balanced forces on the piston
caused by dynamic pressure of air rushing past the face of the piston - under these conditions
there is a greater pressure acting on the face of the piston than there is on the back of the
piston, causing it to be held open. The only way to get it to close again once this happens is to
close the throttle once again until the bypassing air pressure drops enough to let the piston
close.
[015] The third type is a further evolution of the second type, with the vented "basket" a clear
attempt to diffuse the bypass air to reduce its velocity so it can enter the transfer holes in the
face of the piston in order to balance the forces and allow it to close. Unfortunately, this solution
is only moderately effective, and certain conditions can still cause this valve type to be held
open.
[016] All of the above deficiencies of the three types of factory-fitted bypass valve are
especially noticeable when the car has been modified to increase performance through higher
boost pressure, as this is often associated with higher intake temperatures that can accelerate
the rupture of the diaphragm type, and exacerbate the non-closure issue and leaking of the
piston types.
[017] After Market Valves: there are two common approaches taken by aftermarket bypass
valve manufacturers to solve the problems of the factory-fitted bypass valves. Both methods
involve replacing the entire factory-fitted solenoid coil and valve entirely with a pneumatically
operated valve. Where the two methods differ however is how the pneumatic valves are
controlled.
[018] One method supplies a 3-port solenoid valve that alternately connects a vacuum source
and a pressure source to the pneumatic bypass valve - vacuum causes the bypass valve to

                                                   4
open, pressure makes it close. The 3-port solenoid valve supplied with this kit connects to the
factory wiring harness in the engine bay so it utilises the same signal from the ECU to
determine when to open the bypass valve.
[019]   The second method does not use the ECU signal at all. Instead, it simply connects the
bypass valve directly to the intake manifold, thereby causing the valve to open when the throttle
is closed and the intake manifold is in vacuum, and when the throttle is open the intake manifold
is pressurised and therefore the bypass valve is closed. This is the common method used by
most after-market bypass valves.
[020]   Deficiencies of After-Market valves: despite both methods used in the after-market
valves ensuring the deficiencies of the factory-fitted bypass valve are overcome (i.e.
robustness, preventing boost pressure leaks, and the ability to close when required), these
methods have their own set of deficiencies that cannot be overcome regardless of the design of
the hardware.
[021]   The first method retains the ECU control, which is desirable for rapid response of the
bypass valve opening, however to achieve this, the apparatus supplied in order to carry out this
method is extensive, expensive, and time-consuming to install. The apparatus required to carry
out the first method must include: a means to provide a hose connection to the intake manifold;
a 3-port solenoid valve; a means of electrically connecting the 3 port solenoid valve to the
factory wiring harness; a mounting bracket to hold the 3 port solenoid valve in place; sufficient
lengths of vacuum hose to connect the 3 port solenoid valve; and a pneumatically-operated
bypass valve. Installation of this apparatus requires significant time, typically at least an hour by
an experienced vehicle mechanic.
[022]   Even once the above apparatus is installed, there is a key performance deficiency in
reaction time. The addition of the 3 port solenoid valve and the associated lengths of vacuum
hose connecting it to the bypass valve mean that there is a time delay between the ECU
energising the 3 port solenoid valve and the bypass valve opening. This is further hindered by
the fact that this apparatus still requires a vacuum before the bypass valve can begin to open
even when the 3 port solenoid has switched the source to the intake manifold, the throttle needs
to be mostly closed before the intake manifold has sufficient vacuum to open the bypass valve.
By this time a pressure spike may have already occurred.
[023]   The second method suffers similar deficiencies. The apparatus required to carry out the
second method must include: a means to provide a hose connection to the intake manifold; a
means to provide an electrical ballast load to the factory wiring harness to prevent the ECU from
detecting a bypass valve fault since the factory-fitted solenoid coil has been removed; sufficient
lengths of vacuum hose to connect the intake manifold valve to the bypass valve; a

                                                   5
pneumatically-operated bypass valve. Like the first method, installation of this apparatus
requires significant time, typically at least an hour by an experienced vehicle mechanic.
[024]    This method also suffers from delayed opening time for the same reason as the first
method - the apparatus requires the intake manifold to achieve sufficient vacuum to aid bypass
valve opening, by which time a pressure spike has already occurred.
[025]    Both methods require additional apparatus, which adds significant cost to the kit,
complexity and time of installation, and therefore increased cost of installation. All of this comes
at the expense of a delayed response time of the bypass valve, thereby failing to achieve one of
the primary purposes of a bypass valve.
[026]    Any reference herein to known prior art does not, unless the contrary indication appears,
constitute an admission that such prior art is commonly known by those skilled in the art about
which the invention relates, at the priority date of this application.
Summary of the invention
[027]    The present invention provides a or super charged intake tract diverter valve system
having a valve body adapted to be sealingly mounted to said intake tract upstream of a throttle
valve associated with said intake tract, said body including a closure means to operatively close
off a diversion aperture in said intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in said intake tract to
a bypass path or atmosphere at predetermined times, said system including an actuation
means to allow said closure means to open whereby pressurised gases in said intake tract will
pass through said diversion aperture into said bypass path or to atmosphere, characterised in
that said closure means includes a chamber associated with said valve body and a valve
member which cooperates with said chamber to close said diversion aperture, said valve
member including at least one transfer aperture through it, said valve member being configured
so that by means of said pressurised gases, said valve member has a net force provided from a
surface area differential with respect to opposite sides of said valve member so as to close said
diversion aperture or keep it closed, when gas pressure on opposite sides of said valve member
is equal, and when a pressure differential is created so that an upstream side of said valve
member has pressure greater than a downstream side, then said valve member will move to
open said diversion aperture, said system including said actuation means associated with said
chamber or said valve member, whereby when controlled to do so, said actuation means will
open a control aperture associated with said chamber or said valve, to thereby create said
pressure differential on the valve member to thereby cause same to open said diversion
aperture.
[028]    The valve member can be a generally hollow piston with said hole being through an
otherwise closed off end of said piston.

                                                    6
[029] The chamber can be formed from side walls attached to said valve body, and said
piston.
[030] The valve member and said chamber can be of a generally cylindrical construction.
[031] The ratio of cross sectional area of said transfer aperture with respect to the cross
sectional area of said control aperture is less than or equal to 1:2. This can be said another
way, namely that the cross sectional area of the control aperture is at least twice the magnitude
of the cross sectional area of the transfer aperture in the valve member.
[032] The surface area of said valve member on the upstream side, which is directly exposed
to said pressurised gas, is less than the surface area of said valve member on the downstream
side which is exposed to said pressurised gas via said transfer aperture.
[033] The surface area on the downstream side of said valve member can be one or more of
the following: at least 10% greater than that of the upstream side; at least 20% greater than that
of the upstream side; at least 30% greater than that of the upstream side.
[034] The actuation means can be activated by a vehicle's engine control unit or ECU.
[035] The actuation means can include a solenoid, or a control valve member cooperating with
a solenoid, to open or close said control aperture.
[036] A return spring can be provided between one end of said chamber and said valve
member, so that said valve member when in a closed condition has one of the following: no pre
load force from the return spring; the pre-load force is in the range of greater than zero and up
to 0.2kg.
[037] The spring provides a pre-load force greater than zero, so as to urge the valve member
to close said diversion aperture at an appropriate pressure differential.
[038] The return spring can provide said valve member with a stroke length which is
dependent upon the amount of pressure located in said intake tract.
[039] The diversion aperture can remain fully closed when the pressure in said tract is not
sufficient to open said valve member against said return spring, even when the vehicle's engine
control unit is energising the actuation means.
[040] The diverter valve system as described above can be provided and or constructed as an
OEM component or assembly.
[041] The diverter valve system as described above can be provided or constructed as an
after-market component or assembly, in which case the valve can be constructed from a kit of
parts, which utilises a vehicle's original factory fitted solenoid coil, and valve mounting flange.

                                                    7
Further, the vehicle's original factory fitted solenoid return spring can also be utilised or as is
most preferred a stiffer spring than the factory one can be provided.
[042]    The actuation means can be located in the valve body adjacent the valve member or the
actuation means can be located in a body remotely located from said body having said valve
member; in which case between said body remotely located from said body having said valve
member and said body having said valve member the respective ports are interconnected by
means of flexible tubing.
[043]    The present invention also provides a method of operating a turbo or super charged
intake tract diverter valve system, said method comprising the steps of providing a piston to
open and close a diversion aperture of a bypass path, said piston having a transfer aperture
through it, and an upstream surface area adapted to be in contact with a pressurised gas on an
upstream side of said diversion aperture, which upstream surface area is less than a
downstream surface area which will act under pressure of gas passing through said transfer
aperture, providing a chamber to cooperate with said piston which has a control aperture
therein, said method including the step of closing or opening said control aperture by means of
an actuatable valve member, to allow said piston to open or close said diversion aperture.
[044] A return spring can be provided between a portion of said chamber and said piston so
that said piston will have its stroke length dependent upon the amount of pressure located in
said intake tract.
[045]    The diversion aperture can remain fully closed when the pressure is not sufficient to
open when the vehicle's engine control unit is energising the solenoid.
[046]    The present invention also provides a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve
having a valve body adapted to be sealingly mounted to the intake tract upstream of a throttle
valve associated with the intake tract, the body including a closure means to operatively close
off a diversion aperture in the intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in the intake tract to a
bypass path or atmosphere at predetermined times, the system including an actuation means to
allow the closure means to open whereby pressurised gases in the intake tract will pass
through the diversion aperture into the bypass path or to atmosphere, the closure means
including a chamber associated with the valve body and a valve member which cooperates with
the chamber to close the diversion aperture, the valve member including at least one transfer
aperture through it, characterised in that the valve member is configured so that by means of
the pressurised gases, the valve member has a net force provided from a surface area
differential with respect to opposite sides of the valve member so as to close the diversion
aperture or keep it closed, when gas pressure on opposite sides of the valve member is equal,
and when a pressure differential is created so that an upstream side of the valve member has
pressure greater than a downstream side, then the valve member will move to open the

                                                  8
diversion aperture, the system including the actuation means associated with the chamber or
the valve member, whereby when controlled to do so, the actuation means will open a control
aperture associated with the chamber or the valve, to thereby create the pressure differential on
the valve member to thereby cause same to open the diversion aperture, the body having a
mounting flange at one end which has mounting apertures through it and a frustoconical portion
extending away from the mounting flange, the chamber being generally cylindrical and being
formed in the frustoconical portion, the valve body including transfer passages through the body
which have a port formed in the frustoconical portion at one end of the passage .
[047] The valve member can be a generally hollow piston with the transfer aperture being
through an otherwise closed off end or face of the piston.
[048] The chamber can be formed from side walls attached to the valve body, and the piston,
with the chamber being optionally of a generally cylindrical construction.
[049] The ratio of cross section area of the transfer aperture with respect to the cross sectional
area of the control aperture is less than or equal to 1:2; or the cross sectional area of the control
aperture is at least twice the magnitude of the cross sectional area of the transfer aperture in
the valve member.
[050] The surface area of the valve member on the upstream side, which is directly exposed to
the pressurised gas, is less than the surface area of the valve member on the downstream side
which is exposed to the pressurised gas via the transfer aperture.
[051] The surface area on the downstream side of the valve member from the transfer
aperture is one or more of the following: at least 10% greater than that of the upstream side; at
least 20% greater than that of the upstream side; at least 30% greater than that of the upstream
side.
[052] The actuation means is one or more than one of the following: activated by a vehicle's
engine control unit or ECU; includes a solenoid, or a control valve member cooperating with a
solenoid, to open or close the control aperture; located in the valve body adjacent the valve
member; is located in a body remotely located from the body having the valve member; is
located in a body remotely located from the body having the valve member and the body having
the valve member have between respective ports interconnection by means of flexible tubing.
[053] A return spring can be provided between one end of the chamber and the valve
member, so that the valve member when in a closed condition has one of the following: no pre
load force from the return spring; the pre-load force is in the range of greater than zero and up
to 0.2kg.
[054] The spring can provide one or more of the following: a pre-load force greater than zero,
to urge the valve member to close the diversion aperture at an appropriate pressure differential;
provides the valve member with a stroke length dependent upon the amount of pressure located
in the intake tract.

                                                   9
[055] The diversion aperture can remain fully closed if the pressure in the tract is not sufficient
to open the valve member against the return spring, even if the vehicle's engine control unit is
energising the actuation means.
[056] The present invention further provides a valve body for a turbo or super charged intake
tract diverter valve, the body having a mounting flange at one end which has mounting
apertures through it and a frustoconical portion extending away from the mounting flange and a
generally cylindrical chamber formed in the frustoconical portion, the valve body including
transfer passages through the body which have a port formed in the frustoconical portion at one
end of the passage.
[057] The port can be elliptical in shape.
[058] The generally cylindrical chamber can be configured to receive a valve member being
generally cylindrical with a substantially closed end at one end, the closed end having an
aperture through the closed end and a face seal.
[059] The substantially closed end of the valve member can include a circumferential bead.
[060] The circumferential bead and the face seal can be bonded silicone.
[061] The present invention also provides a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve
having a valve body adapted to be sealingly mounted to the intake tract upstream of a throttle
valve associated with the intake tract, the body including a closure means to operatively close
off a diversion aperture in the intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in the intake tract to a
bypass path or atmosphere at predetermined times, the valve including a valve member which
closes the diversion aperture, the valve member including at least one transfer aperture through
it, the valve member being configured so that by means of the pressurised gases, the valve
member has a net force provided from a surface area differential with respect to opposite sides
of the valve member so as to close the diversion aperture or keep it closed, when gas pressure
on opposite sides of the valve member is equal, and when a pressure differential is created so
that an upstream side of the valve member has pressure greater than a downstream side, then
the valve member will move to open the diversion aperture.
[062] The present invention further provides a valve member for a valve body of a turbo or
super charged intake tract diverter, the valve member being generally cylindrical with a
substantially closed end at one end, the closed end having an aperture through the closed end
and a face seal.
[063] The substantially closed end of the valve member can include a circumferential bead.
[064] The circumferential bead and the face seal can be bonded silicone.
[065] The valve member can be of a generally hollow construction.

                                                  10
[066]   The present invention also provides an automobile engine or automobile having a turbo
or super charged intake tract diverter valve, or valve body, or valve member as described above
in paragraphs [027] to [065].
[067]   The present invention further provides an automobile and or automobile engine having a
turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve as described above or has a diverter valve
that operates by the method described above in paragraphs [043] to [045].
Brief description of the drawings
[068]   An embodiment or embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way
of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[069]    FIGURE 1 illustrates a cross section through a turbo or super charged intake tract
diverter valve, in the closed condition.
[070]    FIGURE 2 illustrates a view similar to Figure 1, identifying additional component and
indicating the piston inside and outside diameters.
[071]    FIGURE 3 illustrates an exploded cross sectional view of the components of Figure 1
and 2.
[072]    FIGURE 4 illustrates a cross section similar to Figure 1, with the control aperture open
and the valve member in the open condition.
[073]    FIGURE 5 illustrates a cross section through a valve in a closed condition, similar to that
of Figure 1, except that a return spring is not utilised.
[074]    FIGURE 6 illustrates a cross section of the valve of Figure 5 in the open condition, due
to the control aperture being open by the solenoid.
[075]    FIGURE 7 illustrates a cross section through a prior art diverter valve such as that which
is factory fitted or is an OEM valve.
[076]    FIGURE 8 illustrates an upper perspective view of the valve body 4 of the Figure 1 to 5
valve arrangements.
[077]    FIGURE 8A illustrates a side view of the valve body 4 of Figure 8.
[078]    FIGURE 9 illustrates a lower perspective view of the valve body of Figure 8.
[079]    FIGURE 10 is a perspective partial cross section through the piston 10 of the previous
Figures showing in more detail some of the features of the piston.
[080]    FIGURE 11 is a cross sectional view through a valve system which has some parts of
the valve of the previous embodiments located remotely from other parts

                                                   11
[081]    FIGURE 12 is a block diagram of the operation method of the diverter valve system of
the present invention.
Detailed description of the embodiment or embodiments
[082]   As illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, the diverter valve system comprises a valve body 1
whose outer profile conforms to that of a vehicle's factory fitted solenoid coil body 2 and that of
the mounting flange 3 which may be on the turbocharger compressor or other component of the
engines intake tract, so that the valve body 1 is sandwiched between body 2 and flange 3.
[083]   The valve body 1 contains a cylindrical wall 4 that is part of a bypass path 9 that leads
back to the turbocharger compressor inlet. The wall 4 includes a chamber 5.1 which is formed
by upper cylindrical wall 5.2 of cylindrical wall 4 and which is closed off by a wall 5 at the end
within the valve body 1. The wall 5 contains a control aperture or hole 6, that allows the
passage of air through it into a chamber 7 on the other side of the wall 5, and is bounded by the
face of the solenoid coil body 2 when assembled. At least one transfer passage or passages 8
are included in the valve body 1 so as to allow passage of air from the chamber 7 to the outside
of the valve body 1, via the recirculation passage or bypass path 9 when the valve is installed
on a vehicle. It will be noted from Figures 1 and 8 that the cylindrical wall 4 is formed in a frusto
conical formation 1.6, and that the lowermost rim 1.5 of this formation 1.6, is located at a
distance (see arrow 4.2 in figure 4) of approximately 5mm. This distance is the same distance
measurement which the piston valve of figure 7 will open to. Further this distance of 5mm will
produce an opening to allow air for the diversion aperture 4.1 to directly flow through into the
path 9, such that diversion aperture 4.1 and the passage past the rim 1.5 are of similar cross
sectional areas, thereby preventing the rim from obstructing flow into the bypass passage 9.
[084]    From Figures 8 and 8A it will be noted that the four transfer passages 8 are angularly
equi-spaced around the circumference of the frusto-conical portion 1.6, with centres located on
a concentric pitch circle diameter, and thus radially outwardly of the cylindrical wall 4, which
produces an elliptical exit port from each of the passages 8. Four transfer passages are used in
the embodiment of Figures 8 and 8A because of the thickness of the wall though which the
transfer passages pass, and other manufacturing reasons. However, it will be understood that
the number of transfer passages is not critical as long as the flow through the transfer passage
or passages does not impede the flow of air from the control aperture, as described in
paragraph [081] below. As will also be described in a later embodiment when the body is split
so that the valve body and actuator body can be remotely located, a single transfer passage
connected by silicone hose will suffice, provided it is of a diameter large enough to permit the
required air flow. Thus, the number of passages or the size of a transfer passage is such that
there must be sufficient cross-sectional area so as not to impede flow. A cylindrical piston 10,

                                                     12
illustrated in detail in Figure 10, is formed by a hollow cylinder with a substantially closed-off end
10.1. The piston 10 is configured to fit inside the chamber 5.1 with a fit as close a practical to
allow free axial movement, typically 0.015mm-0.05mm clearance. The closed-off end 10.1
further comprises a face seal 11 which will preferably include a circumferentially arranged
bonded silicone bead, for sealing against the floor of the recirculation passage or bypass path 9
when installed, so as to close off the diversion aperture 4.1 at the start of the bypass path when
the piston 10 is in the closed position. The closed-off end 10.1 further comprises a transfer or
balance aperture 12 that allows passage of air from the upstream side of the piston face (that is
on the diversion aperture 4.1 side) to the downstream side which is on the inside of the piston
10. Importantly, the cross-sectional area of this transfer or balance aperture 12 will need to be
at least 2 times smaller than the control aperture or hole 6 in the wall 5 of the valve body bore.
Further the surface area of the face 10.2 of the piston closed off end 10.1, defined by the
contact perimeter of face seal bead 11, should be at least approximately 22% smaller in
magnitude than the overall surface area calculated based on the outside diameter of the piston
10 (i.e. piston OD: face seal area is 1:0.78). In terms of ratio of diameters this equates to the
diameter of the surface which closes the diversion aperture, is about 0.885 the size of the
outside diameter of the piston 10. Another way to say this is that the effective area of the piston
10 on which the pressure acts on the back or downstream side is approximately 27% larger
than the effective area of the piston on the upstream side defined by the bonded silicone face
seal 11.1 that closes the diversion aperture 4.1, (that is the ratio of face seal surface area to OD
surface area is 1:1.27). This surface area differential with respect to opposite sides (namely the
upstream and downstream sides) of the piston 10 will ensure that the piston 10 closes the
diversion aperture 4. 1 or keeps it closed, when gas pressure on opposite sides of the piston 10
is equal.
[085]     While it is preferred that there is only a single transfer or balance aperture 12 illustrated,
it will be readily understood that more than one transfer or balance aperture 12 could be used. If
more than one is used, then the sum of the cross sectional areas of each of the apertures will
need to total at least 2 times smaller (that is be 50% or less) than the control aperture or hole 6
in the wall 5 of the valve body bore.
[086] As best seen in Figure 2, a steel solenoid plunger 13 is designed, sized and shaped so
as to fit onto the spigot 14 of the factory-fitted solenoid coil 2 when assembled, with provision for
the factory return spring 15. The plunger 13 further comprises a face seal or O-ring 16 that
ensures the control aperture or hole 6 in the wall 5 of the valve body 1 is closed off and sealed
when the plunger 13 is in the closed position when the factory-fitted solenoid coil 2 is de
energised. An O-ring 17 is provided so as to cushion the retraction travel of the plunger 13

                                                   13
when the solenoid coil is energised, in order to prevent an audible "clack" sound which would
otherwise be heard.
[087] A main return compression spring 18 of suitable dimensions and specification is
provided so as to produce additional bias or returning force to the piston 10. It is preferred that
the return spring provides no pre-load when the piston 10 is in the closed position, or if a
preload is provided it is greater than zero but up to and preferably not exceeding 0.2kg of pre
load when the piston 10 is in the closed position, such as for the vehicles mentioned below.
Pre-load is nil or if present is kept in the narrow range described so as to prevent or minimise
the occurrence of turbo compressor surge. The spring rate should be such that the spring force
is between 1-1.5kg at maximum piston lift for such vehicles. However, for other vehicular
engines these spring parameters may vary in accordance with the pressures in the system and
other factors like the turbo specification. The exact spring force and rate (which is a function of
spring dimensions) may need to be determined by trial and error to determine a maximum pre
load on the piston 10 prior to the onset of compressor surge. It is believed that no more than
0.2kg of preload will prevent or minimise such compressor surge.
[088] The compression return spring 18 can be given no pre-load in the valve system
assembly by either the piston 10 being sized such that the dimensions of the chamber 5.1, or
the non compressed height of the spring is sized, so that when piston and spring is assembled,
and the piston 10 has closed off the diversion aperture 4.1, the return spring 18 is in an
uncompressed state. Another way to ensure that no preload is provided by the return spring 18,
is to have the uncompressed height of the spring 18 less than the height of the chamber 5.1
when the piston 10 is in the closed off position relative to the diversion aperture 4.1. This will
ensure that for the last part of the stroke of the piston 10 to the closed position that the piston 10
is not under the urging of the return spring 18.
[089] The valve of Figures 1 and 2 can be constructed on an existing vehicle by removing
some of the components of the original diverter valve, and by utilising the original factory-fitted
solenoid coil 2. The factory-fitted valve mechanism once removed from the solenoid coil can be
discarded. Also used is the factory-fitted solenoid return spring 15, and the mounting flange 3,
which may be integrated into the turbocharger compressor cover, or may be remotely mounted
and connected to the intake system via hoses, depending upon what is present on the original
vehicle. The components described above are then assembled onto the mounting flange as
illustrated in the exploded view of Figure 3.
[090] Operation of the apparatus: Whenever the solenoid coil 2 is de-energised, the
solenoid plunger 13 remains in a closed position as illustrated in Figure 1 and 2, by means of
the return spring 15, thus ensuring the piston 10 and bore or chamber 5.1 define an essentially
closed volume, at its downstream end. When boost pressure is present in the turbo system and

                                                   14
this is communicated to the upstream face of the piston 10 (upstream relative to the transfer
aperture 12), the same pressure is also transferred through the transfer aperture 12 through the
closed end 10.1 of the piston 10 into the closed volume behind the piston on the downstream
side of the closed end 10.1 and transfer aperture 12. Since the effective area of the piston 10 on
which the pressure acts on the back or downstream side is approximately of preferably 27%
(face seal surface area: OD surface area is 1:1.27) larger than the effective area of the piston
on the upstream side, defined by the bonded silicone face seal 11.1 that closes the diversion
aperture 4.1, there is an imbalanced or net force that pushes the piston 10 to close against the
upper rim of the diversion aperture 4.1 on the mounting flange 3. Regardless of how high the
boost pressure is or may be, the piston 10, due to this arrangement, will always be pushed
closed by a force which is 27% greater than the force it would otherwise be pushed open with.
[091]    When the ECU energises the solenoid coil 2, the solenoid plunger 13 is retracted,
thereby opening the control aperture or hole 6 in the wall 5 of the valve body, as is best
illustrated in Figure 4. Air which is under pressure is then allowed to flow out of the chamber 5.1
and into the chamber 7 defined by the valve body wall 5 and the solenoid coil body 2. This air
can then pass unimpeded through the transfer passages 8 into the recirculation chamber or
bypass path 9, which is typically at atmospheric pressure. Because the transfer aperture 12 in
the closed end 10.1 of the piston 10 is smaller than the control aperture or hole 6 in the valve
body wall 5 and the transfer passages 8, the pressure within the chamber 5.1 defined by the
piston 10 and valve body or walls 5.2 will be sufficiently reduced to allow the imbalance of
forces, or net force, to push the piston 10 open. When the piston 10 is in the open position,
recirculation of the pressurised air by means of the bypass path 9, can take place to prevent
pressure spikes in the intake tract.
[092]    When the ECU de-energises the solenoid coil 2, the plunger 13 moves back under the
bias of the spring 15 so as to close the control aperture 6 and once again seals the valve body
chamber 5.1, allowing pressure to equalise on both sides of the piston 10. With equal pressure
but un-equal areas exposed to the pressure, the piston 10 is then forced closed again.
[093]     In the embodiment of Figures 1 to 4, the valve utilises a return spring 18. However, as
illustrated in Figures 5 and 6, there is another configuration of the apparatus that achieve
different but desirable performance objectives. When configured or assembled without the main
return spring 18 as illustrated in Figures 5 and 6, the valve most closely replicates the behaviour
of the factory-fitted bypass valve, in that it operates only in two states, either open as in Figure 6
or closed Figure 5. This configuration ensures the quietest possible operation, but still with the
ability to open and close reliably even under higher boost pressure and temperature.
[094]     However, when the main return spring 18 is used, the main return spring 18 influences
the size of the opening created by the piston 10 in response to the boost pressure present in the

                                                    15
intake tract and communicated by the diversion aperture 4.1. If boost pressure is low, the piston
10 only opens a small amount of bypass opening, with the key objective being to vent only
enough air to prevent pressure spikes. As the boost pressure is reduced by the action of
bypassing, the piston 10 closes the diversion aperture 4.1 or decreases the size of the bypass
opening, until there is no more pressure and the piston 10 fully closes the diversion aperture
4.1, even when the ECU is energising the solenoid coil 2. If boost pressure is high when the
ECU energises the solenoid coil 2, the piston 10 will open further than when the pressure is
lower, to allow more air to recirculate. In this situation the size of the bypass passage or
opening can be described as variable or dependent upon the amount of boost pressure to be
diverted, unlike some of the prior art systems where the amount of opening of the valve is the
same at all pressures due to the length of stroke of the direct acting solenoid.
[095]    In this way, the piston 10 is given a second means or parameter by which its opening
stroke length is controlled. By opening only enough to prevent pressure spikes when the throttle
is closed, but not completely evacuating the intake tract, turbo lag can be minimised. This
means that the embodiment of Figures 1 to 4 may be preferable when better performance is
required, but with it may come a slight increase in operational noise.
[096]    Key benefits of an after-market embodiment of the apparatus and method: 1.
improved operation even under increased boost and operating temperature conditions; 2.
simplified apparatus ensures a low-cost solution that is easy to install; 3. fast operational
speeds because this apparatus does not require manifold vacuum to open, nor does it need
vacuum hoses to be connected that would delay the pressure/vacuum signals; 4. utilizes the
factory-supplied solenoid coil which means the benefits of the ECU control signal are retained,
and a functioning solenoid coil is not wasted.
[097]    While the above description describes an after-market modification so as to use existing
mounting systems and the like, it will also be understood that the diverter valve of the invention
can be provided as an OEM diverter valve instead of the existing OEM diverter or bypass
valves.
[098]    Key benefits of an OEM inventive embodiment of the apparatus and method: 1.
reliable or improved operation even under increased boost and operating temperature
conditions; 2. fast operational speeds because this apparatus does not require manifold vacuum
to open, nor does it need vacuum hoses connected that delay the pressure/vacuum signals.
[099]    Figure 12 illustrates a block diagram of the method of operation of the valve system of
Figures 1 to 6 and 11 which will be described below. In Figure 12 the items numbers represent
the following block diagram steps:
1000- solenoid coil is not energised

                                                 16
1010- piston 10 and plunger 13 are in a closed position
1020- pressure acting on piston face is transmitted to the chamber behind the piston via the
transfer aperture 12 in the piston face
1030- pressure on downstream side of piston acts on an area 27% larger than the area on
which the pressure acts on the upstream side of the piston
1040- resultant force holds piston in closed position preventing turbo bypassing
1045- throttle closed input
1050- solenoid coil energised by engine's ECU output
1060- plunger 13 retracts opening control aperture 6 in chamber wall 5
1070- air flows through transfer aperture(s) which effectively reduces pressure on the
downstream surface area with respect to said transfer aperture
1080- pressure differential overcomes return spring bias if return spring present and or friction
between chamber wall and piston and or inertia of the piston- to push piston to open the diverter
passage
1090- turbo air enters bypass or diverter passages through the valve
1100- pressure in turbo piping reduces to zero as a result of bypassing
1110- resultant force from pressure differential reduces to zero
1120- return spring overcomes reduced force differential and moves piston to closed position
and turbo bypassing ceases
1095- engine throttle open
1096- solenoid coil de-energised by ECU unit
1097- return spring pushes plunger 13 to close control aperture 6 in chamber wall 5
1098- pressure equalises on both sides of piston resulting in a 27% force differential which
biases the piston to the closed position
1099- resultant force and main return spring combine to keep piston closed thereby ceasing
diversion or bypass conditions.
[0100] The operation of the pilot or valve operating system as described above relies on a
number of specific design criteria to function appropriately, as described below.
[0101] When the solenoid energises and the plunger 13 is retracted there by allowing airflow
through the control aperture 6, and subsequently through chamber 7 and transfer hole/holes 8
must be greater than the airflow through the piston transfer aperture 12, such that pressure
behind the piston 10 will be reduced to close to zero.
[0102] In a preferred embodiment the piston transfer aperture 12 has a diameter of
approximately 2mm, while the control aperture 6 has diameter of approximately 5mm, and
there are four transfer passages 8 each of approximately 3mm in diameter. The cross-sectional
area of the four transfer passages 8 is greater than that of the control aperture 6, thereby

                                                   17
ensuring they create no additional downstream flow restriction or back pressure due to
turbulence and/or the length of the transfer passages 8. Because the piston transfer aperture 12
is concentric to the control aperture 6, air passing through the piston transfer aperture 12
creates a jet that is directed into the control aperture 6, which entrains air from the surrounding
chamber 5.1 which results in a slight vacuum in the chamber 5.1, thereby aiding the piston 10
moving to the open condition.
[0103] The plunger 13 forms part of the path that air must take to evacuate the piston chamber
5.1, and therefore the retract distance of the plunger 13 also plays a role in determining the total
flow capacity of the control aperture 6. The plunger 13 must retract sufficiently so as not to
restrict flow through the control aperture 6. A preferred retract distance of 1mm to 2mm will
satisfy this.
[0104] The surface area that pressure gets to act upon on the upstream face of the piston is
dictated by the diameter of the raised bead 11.1 of the moulded face seal 11. In the closed
position, the raised bead 11.1 contacts the floor 9.1 (see figure 1) of the bypass path 9 which
surrounds the upper rim of the diversion aperture 4.1, so the pressure only acts on the area
enclosed by the bead 11.1. When the plunger is in the closed position, pressure on both sides
(upstream and downstream of transfer aperture 12) of the piston is equalised, but on the back of
the piston 10 the pressure acts on the entire area of the piston outer diameter, which therefore
creates a resultant force pushing the piston 10 closed.
[0105] For the embodiment described above the preferred bead diameter of 19.5mm can be
utilised, while a piston outside diameter of 22mm is also utilised, resulting in a face surface area
(upstream) to piston surface area (downstream) ratio of 1:1.27, when calculated with the
surface area of the transfer aperture 12 removed from the available surface areas. In an
alternative embodiment a bead diameter of 21.5mm can be utilised with a piston outside
diameter of 24mm, however, this will result in a face surface area (upstream) to piston surface
area (downstream) ratio of 1:1.247, when calculated with the surface area of the transfer
aperture 12 is removed from the available surface areas.
[0106] Another parameter to be designed for is the speed at which the piston 10, will move from
a closed to an open position. It is found that the parameters selected above will produce an
appropriate speed of the piston 10 for effective opening of the diverter passage as a
replacement for a factory solenoid diverter valve such as that manufactured by Pierburg for
Volkswagen/Audi, where the valve of figure 7 has part number of 06F 145 710 G - commonly
referred to by the AudiVW community as the "Revision G" model. This valve is used on some
Golf GTI, as well as other Audi/VW/Seat/Skoda models that share the same engine. BMW,
Porsche, Peugeot and Mercedes also use a similar valve made by the same company.

                                                   18
[0107] As illustrated in Figure 7, the standard direct actuating solenoid valve has a mounting
flange 3, and in this is located the valve piston which is pushed shut by the return spring 15 of
the solenoid. When solenoid is energised by the ECU the direct coupled actuator rod opens the
diversion path.
[0108] Illustrated in Figures 8 and 9 are perspective views of the valve body 1 of previous
Figures, showing three mounting holes 1.1, which pass through the valve body, while on a lower
face a circular O-ring channel 1.2 is provided so as to receive an O-ring to seal with the upper
surface of the mounting flange 3. Whereas in Figure 9 there is visible in the upper side the
chamber 7 and the entrance location or apertures of the four transfer passages 8. Also present
is a circular flange 1.3 to substitute for the material of the inserted chamber 9.3 of the factory
valve of figure 7, and a cylindrical flange 1.4 to provide the cylindrical wall of the chamber 7.
[0109] While the above description and drawings show an O-ring seal 16 on the end of the
plunger 13, it will be readily understood that the seal 16 could be positioned on or around the
control aperture 6.
[0110] The valve body 1, can be manufactured from any appropriate material and any
appropriate method of manufacture. While most preferred is machining the valve body 1 from
aluminium, or other metals such as brass or stainless steel could be used or plastic; or it could
be injection moulded in polymeric material, die cast or made from sintered metals. Metal
deposition techniques could also be used and possibly 3D printing depending upon available
polymers for such printing.
[0111] The piston 10 can be made from any appropriate material including aluminium, stainless
steel or appropriate polymeric materials or metals.
[0112] Diverter valves as described above are commonly found in one of two locations, one is
on a mounting flange that forms part of a supercharger or turbo compressor cover and includes
a passage for incoming boost pressure, and one for the recirculation path. A second location
used is a cast or machined mounting flange with the same inlet and outlet features but
connected remotely to the intake via hoses.
[0113] While the above description is directed to embodiments which utilise a pre-existing
solenoid to open or close the control aperture 6, or an OEM valve which uses a solenoid to do
the same, it will be understood that other motive power means to open and close the control
aperture 6 can be utilised such as pneumatic operation, whereby a negative pressure in the
inlet tract is used to provide motive power to move a control valve member to take the place of
the O-ring seal 16 and plunger 13.
[0114] Illustrated in FIGURE 11 is another embodiment where the diverter valve system has a
has two discrete body parts, so as to allow the location of the "upper" or first or actuator body

                                                   19
part at one location in an engine bay and the "lower" or second or valve body part to be located
on the turbocharger compressor or other component of the engine's intake tract at a second
location in an engine bay. Like parts with the embodiment of Figures 1 to 6 have been like
numbered. This embodiment of Figure 11 is particularly advantageous in instances where the
engine bay is organised such that there is not much space above the turbocharger compressor
or other component of the engine's intake tract on which the diverter valve may be mounted.
[0115] In the split system of Figure 11, the aperture 6 is effectively parted so that the aperture 6
is on the remote upper or first or actuator body 1.2, which connects to the port 6.1 on the lower
or second or valve body 1, by means of tube 6.2. Whereas a single transfer passage 8 is split
so that the lower or second or valve body 1 has a passage end 8.3 at the turbocharger
compressor or other component of the engine's intake tract, while the remotely located body 1.2
has the other passage end 8.1 of the transfer passage 8, with ends 8.3 and 8.1 being
connected by tube 8.2. The tubes 6.2 and 8.2 are a silicone rubber tubing which are capable of
withstanding the boost pressure which may be present in the turbocharger system. Typical
silicone vacuum hoses used for such purposes can readily withstand over 50 psi, but a hose's
characteristics can be selected depending upon the conditions prevalent in a turbo charging
system to which the embodiment is to be applied. In the embodiment of figure 11 only a single
transfer passage 8 is provided so as to minimise the number of tubes 8.2 that need to be
connected, thus also minimising install time, length of tubing required and any additional clutter
around the diverter valve system components.
[0116] While the above embodiments describe the use of a bypass path in the diverter valve
system, it will be understood that instead of a bypass path, the diverter system may divert to
atmosphere.
[0117] In this specification, terms denoting direction, such as vertical, up, down, left, right, etc.
or rotation, should be taken to refer to the directions relative to the corresponding Figure rather
than to absolute directions unless the context require otherwise.
[0118] Where ever it is used, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open" sense, that
is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that is the sense of
"consisting only of". A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the corresponding words
"comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
[0119] It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined herein extends to all
alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or evident from the
text. All of these different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
[0120] While particular embodiments of this invention have been described, it will be evident to
those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms

                                                20
without departing from the essential characteristics thereof. The present embodiments and
examples are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, and all
modifications which would be obvious to those skilled in the art are therefore intended to be
embraced therein.

                                                 21
Claims:
1. A turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve system having a valve body adapted to
   be sealingly mounted to said intake tract upstream of a throttle valve associated with said
   intake tract, said body including a closure means to operatively close off a diversion
   aperture in said intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in said intake tract to a bypass
   path or atmosphere at predetermined times, said system including an actuation means to
   allow said closure means to open whereby pressurised gases in said intake tract will pass
   through said diversion aperture into said bypass path or to atmosphere, characterised in that
   said closure means includes a chamber associated with said valve body and a valve
   member which cooperates with said chamber to close said diversion aperture, said valve
   member including at least one transfer aperture through it, said valve member being
   configured so that by means of said pressurised gases, said valve member has a net force
   provided from a surface area differential with respect to opposite sides of said valve member
   so as to close said diversion aperture or keep it closed, when gas pressure on opposite
   sides of said valve member is equal, and when a pressure differential is created so that an
   upstream side of said valve member has pressure greater than a downstream side, then
   said valve member will move to open said diversion aperture, said system including said
   actuation means associated with said chamber or said valve member, whereby when
   controlled to do so, said actuation means will open a control aperture associated with said
   chamber or said valve, to thereby create said pressure differential on the valve member to
   thereby cause same to open said diversion aperture.
2. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said valve member is a generally
   hollow piston with said transfer aperture being through an otherwise closed off end or face
   of said piston.
3. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said chamber is formed from side
   walls attached to said valve body, and said piston.
4. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said valve member
   and said chamber are of a generally cylindrical construction.
5. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the ratio of cross
   section area of said transfer aperture with respect to the cross sectional area of said control
   aperture is less than or equal to 1:2; or the cross sectional area of the control aperture is at
   least twice the magnitude of the cross sectional area of the transfer aperture in the valve
   member.
6. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the surface area of
   said valve member on the upstream side, which is directly exposed to said pressurised gas,
   is less than the surface area of said valve member on the downstream side which is
   exposed to said pressurised gas via said transfer aperture.

                                                    22
7. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 6, wherein said surface area on the downstream
    side of said valve member from said transfer aperture is one or more of the following: at
    least 10% greater than that of the upstream side; at least 20% greater than that of the
    upstream side; at least 30% greater than that of the upstream side.
8. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said
    actuation means is activated by a vehicle's engine control unit or ECU.
9. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said
    actuation means includes a solenoid, or a control valve member cooperating with a
    solenoid, to open or close said control aperture.
10. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a return
    spring is provided between one end of said chamber and said valve member, so that said
    valve member when in a closed condition has one of the following: no pre-load force from
    the return spring; the pre-load force is in the range of greater than zero and up to 0.2kg.
11. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said spring provides a pre-load force
    greater than zero, to urge the valve member to close said diversion aperture at an
    appropriate pressure differential.
12. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein said return spring provides
    said valve member with a stroke length dependent upon the amount of pressure located in
    said intake tract.
13. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein said diversion
    aperture remains fully closed if the pressure in said tract is not sufficient to open said valve
    member against said return spring, even if the vehicle's engine control unit is energising the
    actuation means.
14. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said valve is
    provided and or constructed as an OEM component or assembly.
15. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein said valve is
    provided or constructed as an after-market component or assembly.
16. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said valve is constructed from a kit
    of parts, which utilises a vehicle's original factory fitted solenoid coil, and valve mounting
    flange.
17. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the vehicle's original factory fitted
    solenoid return spring is also utilised.
18. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said
    actuation means is located in said valve body adjacent said valve member.
19. A diverter valve system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein said actuation
    means in located in a body remotely located from said body having said valve member.

                                                    23
20. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 19 wherein said body remotely located from said
    body having said valve member and said body having said valve member have between
    respective ports interconnection by means of flexible tubing.
21. A method of operating a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve system, said
    method comprising the steps of providing a piston to open and close a diversion aperture of
    a bypass path, said piston having a transfer aperture through it, and an upstream surface
    area adapted to be in contact with a pressurised gas on an upstream side of said transfer
    aperture, which upstream surface area is less than a downstream surface area which will
    act under pressure of gas passing through said transfer aperture, providing a chamber to
    cooperate with said piston which has a control aperture therein, said method including the
    step of closing or opening said control aperture by means of an actuatable valve member, to
    allow said piston to open or close said diversion aperture.
22. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said piston includes a face which closes said
    diversion aperture.
23. A method as claimed in claim 21 or 22, wherein said actuatable valve member is actuatable
    by means of one of the following: a solenoid, a pneumatic means.
24. A method as claimed in claim 22 or 23, wherein said face includes said transfer aperture.
25. A method as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 24, wherein a return spring is provided
    between a portion of said chamber and said piston so that said piston will have its stroke
    length dependent upon the amount of pressure located in said intake tract.
26. A method as claimed in any one of claims 21 or 25, wherein said diversion aperture remains
    fully closed if the pressure is not sufficient to open even if the vehicle's engine control unit is
    energising or actuating the means which opens said control aperture.
27. An automobile engine having a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve system as
    claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20.
28. An automobile engine having a turbo or supercharged intake tract diverter valve system that
    operates by the method of any one of claims 21 to 26.
29. An automobile having an automobile engine as claimed in claim 27 or 28.
30. A turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve having a valve body adapted to be
    sealingly mounted to said intake tract upstream of a throttle valve associated with said
    intake tract, said body including a closure means to operatively close off a diversion
    aperture in said intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in said intake tract to a bypass
    path or atmosphere at predetermined times, said system including an actuation means to
    allow said closure means to open whereby pressurised gases in said intake tract will pass
    through said diversion aperture into said bypass path or to atmosphere, said closure means
    including a chamber associated with said valve body and a valve member which cooperates
    with said chamber to close said diversion aperture, said valve member including at least one

                                                  24
    transfer aperture through it, characterised in that said valve member is configured so that by
    means of said pressurised gases, said valve member has a net force provided from a
    surface area differential with respect to opposite sides of said valve member so as to close
    said diversion aperture or keep it closed, when gas pressure on opposite sides of said valve
    member is equal, and when a pressure differential is created so that an upstream side of
    said valve member has pressure greater than a downstream side, then said valve member
    will move to open said diversion aperture, said system including said actuation means
    associated with said chamber or said valve member, whereby when controlled to do so, said
    actuation means will open a control aperture associated with said chamber or said valve, to
    thereby create said pressure differential on the valve member to thereby cause same to
    open said diversion aperture, said body having a mounting flange at one end which has
    mounting apertures through it and a frustoconical portion extending away from the mounting
    flange, said chamber being generally cylindrical and being formed in said frustoconical
    portion, said valve body including transfer passages through the body which have a port
    formed in the frustoconical portion at one end of the passage .
31. A diverter valve as claimed in claim 30, wherein said valve member is a generally hollow
    piston with said transfer aperture being through an otherwise closed off end or face of said
    piston.
32. A diverter valve system as claimed in claim 30 or 31 wherein said chamber is formed from
    side walls attached to said valve body, and said piston, with said chamber being optionally
    of a generally cylindrical construction.
33. A diverter valve as claimed in any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the ratio of cross section
    area of said transfer aperture with respect to the cross sectional area of said control
    aperture is less than or equal to 1:2; or the cross sectional area of the control aperture is at
    least twice the magnitude of the cross sectional area of the transfer aperture in the valve
    member.
34. A diverter valve as claimed in any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the surface area of said
    valve member on the upstream side, which is directly exposed to said pressurised gas, is
    less than the surface area of said valve member on the downstream side which is exposed
    to said pressurised gas via said transfer aperture.
35. A diverter valve as claimed in claim 34, wherein said surface area on the downstream side
    of said valve member from said transfer aperture is one or more of the following: at least
    10% greater than that of the upstream side; at least 20% greater than that of the upstream
    side; at least 30% greater than that of the upstream side.
36. A diverter valve as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein said actuation
    means is one or more than one of the following: activated by a vehicle's engine control unit
    or ECU; includes a solenoid, or a control valve member cooperating with a solenoid, to open

                                                  25
    or close said control aperture; located in said valve body adjacent said valve member; is
    located in a body remotely located from said body having said valve member; is located in a
    body remotely located from said body having said valve member and said body having said
    valve member have between respective ports interconnection by means of flexible tubing.
37. A diverter valve as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a return spring is
    provided between one end of said chamber and said valve member, so that said valve
    member when in a closed condition has one of the following: no pre-load force from the
    return spring; the pre-load force is in the range of greater than zero and up to 0.2kg.
38. A diverter valve as claimed in claim 37 wherein said spring provides one or more of the
    following: a pre-load force greater than zero, to urge the valve member to close said
    diversion aperture at an appropriate pressure differential; provides said valve member with a
    stroke length dependent upon the amount of pressure located in said intake tract.
39. A diverter valve as claimed in any one of claims 38 or 39, wherein said diversion aperture
    remains fully closed if the pressure in said tract is not sufficient to open said valve member
    against said return spring , even if the vehicle's engine control unit is energising the
    actuation means.
40. A valve body for a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve, said body having a
    mounting flange at one end which has mounting apertures through it and a frustoconical
    portion extending away from the mounting flange and a generally cylindrical chamber
    formed in said frustoconical portion, said valve body including at least one transfer passage
    through the body which have at least one respective port formed in the frustoconical portion
    at one end of respective at least one transfer passage.
41. A valve body as claimed in clam 40, wherein said port is elliptical in shape.
42. A valve body as claimed in claim 40 or 41, wherein said generally cylindrical chamber is
    configured to receive a valve member being generally cylindrical with a substantially closed
    end at one end, said closed end having an aperture through the closed end and a seal to
    seal against a surface of an intake tract around a diversion aperture when assembled.
43. A valve body as claimed in claim 42, wherein said substantially closed end of said valve
    member includes a circumferential bead.
44. A valve body as claimed in claim 43, wherein said circumferential bead is formed from
    bonded silicone.
45. A valve body as claimed in claim 43 or 44 wherein said circumferential seal is incorporated
    with a face seal.
46. A turbo or super charged intake tract diverter valve having a valve body adapted to be
    sealingly mounted to said intake tract upstream of a throttle valve associated with said
    intake tract, said body including a closure means to operatively close off a diversion

                                                  26
    aperture in said intake tract so as to vent pressurised gases in said intake tract to a bypass
    path or atmosphere at predetermined times, said valve including a valve member which
    closes said diversion aperture, said valve member including at least one transfer aperture
    through it, said valve member being configured so that by means of said pressurised gases,
    said valve member has a net force provided from a surface area differential with respect to
    opposite sides of said valve member so as to close said diversion aperture or keep it closed,
    when gas pressure on opposite sides of said valve member is equal, and when a pressure
    differential is created so that an upstream side of said valve member has pressure greater
    than a downstream side, then said valve member will move to open said diversion aperture.
47. A valve member for a valve body of a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter, said valve
    member being generally cylindrical with a substantially closed end at one end, said closed
    end having an aperture through the closed end and a seal to seal against a surface around
    a diversion aperture of an intake tract, when assembled.
48. A valve body as claimed in claim 47, wherein said substantially closed end of said valve
    member includes a circumferential bead.
49. A valve body as claimed in claim 48, wherein said circumferential bead is formed from
    bonded silicone.
50. A valve body as claimed in any one of claims 47 to 49 wherein said valve member is of a
    generally hollow construction.
51. An automobile engine or automobile having a turbo or super charged intake tract diverter
    valve as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
