                                               Abstract
   The present invention relates to a nucleic acid sequence, comprising or coding for a coding
   region, encoding at least one peptide or protein comprising a tumour antigen or a fragment,
 5 variant or derivative thereof, at least one histone stem-loop and a poly(A) sequence or a
   polyadenylation signal. Furthermore the present invention provides the use of the nucleic acid
   for increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein. It also discloses its use for the
   preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, especially a vaccine, e.g. for use in the treatment of
   cancer or tumour diseases. The present invention further describes a method for increasing the
10 expression of a peptide or protein comprising a tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or
   derivative thereof, using the nucleic acid comprising or coding for a histone stem-loop and a
   poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal.
15

                                                     1
                                               AUSTRALIA
                                              PatentsAct 1990
 5                            ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                         STANDARD PATENT
   Invention title :NUCLEIC ACID COMPRISING OR CODING FOR A HISTONE STEM
10 LOOP AND A POLY(A) SEQUENCE OR A POLYADENYLATION SIGNAL FOR
   INCREASING THE EXPRESSION OF AN ENCODED TUMOUR ANTIGEN
   This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013220747 which is the
   Australian national phase entry of PCT/EP2013/000459, which claims priority to
15 PCT/EP2012/000674 filed 15 February 2012. Each of these applications is herein incorporated
   by reference in their entireties.
   The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
   performing it known to us:

                                                    1
     NUCLEIC ACID COMPRISING OR CODING FOR A HISTONE STEM-LOOP AND A
     POLY(A) SEQUENCE OR A POLYADENYLATION SIGNAL FOR INCREASING THE
                     EXPRESSION OF AN ENCODED TUMOUR ANTIGEN
 5
   The present invention relates to a nucleic acid sequence, comprising or coding for a coding
   region, encoding at least one peptide or protein comprising a tumour antigen or a fragment,
   variant or derivative thereof, at least one histone stem-loop and a poly(A) sequence or a
10 polyadenylation signal. Furthermore the present invention provides the use of the nucleic acid
   for increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein. It also discloses its use for the
   preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, especially a vaccine, e.g. for use in the treatment of
   cancer or tumour diseases. The present invention further describes a method for increasing the
   expression of a peptide or protein comprising a tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or
15 derivative thereof, using the nucleic acid comprising or coding for a histone stem-loop and a
   poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal.
   Apart from cardiovascular diseases and infectious diseases, the occurrence of tumours and cancer
   diseases is one of the most frequent causes of death in modern society and is in most cases
20 associated with considerable costs in terms of therapy and subsequent rehabilitation measures.
   The treatment of tumours and cancer diseases is greatly dependent, for example, on the type of
   tumour that occurs, on the age, the distribution of cancer cells in the patient to be treated, etc.
   Cancer therapy is nowadays conventionally carried out by the use of radiation therapy or
   chemotherapy in addition to invasive operations. However, such conventional therapies typically
25 place extraordinary stress on the immune system and can be used in some cases to only a limited
   extent. In addition, most of these conventional therapies require long intervals between the
   individual treatments to allow for regeneration of the immune system.
   Therefore, supplementary strategies have been investigated in recent years in addition to such
30 "conventional treatments" to avoid or at least reduce the impact on the immune system by such
   treatments.    One such supplementary treatment in particular          includes gene therapeutic
   approaches or genetic vaccination, which already have been found to be highly promising for
   treatment or for supporting such conventional therapies.
35 Gene therapy and genetic vaccination are methods of molecular medicine which already have
   been proven in the therapy and prevention of diseases and generally exhibit a considerable effect

                                                      2
   on daily medical practice, in particular on the treatment of diseases as mentioned above. Both
   methods, gene therapy and genetic vaccination, are based on the introduction of nucleic acids
   into the patient's cells or tissue and subsequent processing of the information coded for by the
   nucleic acid that has been introduced into the cells or tissue, that is to say the (protein)
 5 expression of the desired polypeptides.
   In gene therapy approaches, typically DNA is used even though RNA is also known in recent
   developments. Importantly, in all these gene therapy approaches mRNA functions as messenger
   for the sequence information of the encoded protein, irrespectively if DNA, viral RNA or mRNA
10 is used.
   In general RNA is considered an unstable molecule: RNases are ubiquitous and notoriously
   difficult to inactivate. Furthermore, RNA is also chemically more labile than DNA. Thus, it is
   perhaps surprising that the "default state" of an mRNA in a eukaryotic cell is characterized by a
15 relative stability and specific signals are required to accelerate the decay of individual mRNAs.
   The main reason for this finding appears to be that mRNA decay within cells is catalyzed almost
   exclusively by exonucleases. However, the ends of eukaryotic mRNAs are protected against these
   enzymes by specific terminal structures and their associated proteins: a m7GpppN CAP at the 5'
   end and typically a poly(A) sequence at the 3' end. Removal of these two terminal modifications
20 is thus considered rate limiting for mRNA decay. Although a stabilizing element has been
   characterized in the 3' UTR of the alpha-globin mRNA, RNA sequences affecting turnover of
   eukaryotic mRNAs typically act as a promoter of decay usually by accelerating deadenylation
   (reviewed in Meyer, S., C. Temme, et al. (2004), Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol 39(4): 197-216.).
25 As    mentioned     above,   the   5'  ends   of   eukaryotic   mRNAs     are  typically   modified
   posttranscriptionally to carry a methylated CAP structure, e.g. m7GpppN. Aside from roles in
   RNA splicing, stabilization, and transport, the CAP structure significantly enhances the
   recruitment of the 40S ribosomal subunit to the 5' end of the mRNA during translation initiation.
   The latter function requires recognition of the CAP structure by the eukaryotic initiation factor
30 complex eIF4F. The poly(A) sequence additionally stimulates translation via increased 40S
   subunit recruitment to mRNAs, an effect that requires the intervention of poly(A) binding
   protein (PABP). PABP, in turn, was recently demonstrated to interact physically with eIF4G,
   which is part of the CAP-bound eIF4F complex. Thus, a closed loop model of translation
   initiation on capped, polyadenylated mRNAs was postulated (Michel, Y. M., D. Poncet, et al.
35 (2000), J Biol Chem 275(41): 32268-76.).

                                                      3
   Nearly all eukaryotic mRNAs end with such a poly(A) sequence that is added to their 3' end by
   the ubiquitous cleavage/polyadenylation machinery. The presence of a poly(A) sequence at the 3'
   end is one of the most recognizable features of eukaryotic mRNAs. After cleavage, most pre
   mRNAs,      with   the  exception    of  replication-dependent     histone  transcripts,   acquire  a
 5 polyadenylated tail. In this context, 3' end processing is a nuclear co-transcriptional process that
   promotes transport of mRNAs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and affects the stability and the
   translation of mRNAs. Formation of this 3' end occurs in a two step reaction directed by the
   cleavage/polyadenylation machinery and depends on the presence of two sequence elements in
   mRNA precursors (pre-mRNAs); a highly conserved hexanucleotide AAUAAA (polyadenylation
10 signal) and a downstream G/U-rich sequence. In a first step, pre-mRNAs are cleaved between
   these two elements. In a second step tightly coupled to the first step the newly formed 3' end is
   extended by addition of a poly(A) sequence consisting of 200-250 adenylates which affects
   subsequently all aspects of mRNA metabolism, including mRNA export, stability and translation
   (Dominski, Z. and W. F. Marzluff (2007), Gene      396(2): 373-90.).
15
   The only known exception to this rule are the replication-dependent histone mRNAs which end
   with a histone stem-loop instead of a poly(A) sequence. Exemplary histone stem-loop sequences
   are described in Lopez et al. (DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T. (2008), RNA (New York, N.Y.),
   14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308.).
20
   The stem-loops in histone pre-mRNAs are typically followed by a purine-rich sequence known as
   the histone downstream element (HDE). These pre-mRNAs are processed in the nucleus by a
   single endonucleolytic cleavage approximately 5 nucleotides downstream of the stem-loop,
   catalyzed by the U7 snRNP through base pairing of the U7 snRNA with the HDE. The 3'-UTR
25 sequence comprising the histone stem-loop structure and the histone downstream element
   (HDE) (binding site of the U7 snRNP) were usually termed as histone 3'-processing signal (see
   e.g. Chodchoy, N., N. B. Pandey, et al. (1991). Mol Cell Biol 11(1): 497-509.).
   Due to the requirement to package newly synthesized DNA into chromatin, histone synthesis is
30 regulated in concert with the cell cycle. Increased synthesis of histone proteins during S phase is
   achieved by transcriptional activation of histone genes as well as posttranscriptional regulation
   of histone mRNA levels. It could be shown that the histone stem-loop is essential for all
   posttranscriptional steps of histone expression regulation. It is necessary for efficient processing,
   export of the mRNA into the cytoplasm, loading onto polyribosomes, and regulation of mRNA
35 stability.

                                                     4
   In the above context, a 32 kDa protein was identified, which is associated with the histone stem
   loop at the 3'-end of the histone messages in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The expression
   level of this stem-loop binding protein (SLBP) is cell-cycle regulated and is highest during S
 5 phase when histone mRNA levels are increased. SLBP is necessary for efficient 3'-end processing
   of histone pre-mRNA by the U7 snRNP. After completion of processing, SLBP remains
   associated with the stem-loop at the end of mature histone mRNAs and stimulates their
   translation into histone proteins in the cytoplasm. (Dominski, Z. and W. F. Marzluff (2007),
   Gene 396(2): 373-90). Interestingly, the RNA binding domain of SLBP is conserved throughout
10 metazoa and protozoa (DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T. (2008), RNA (New York, N.Y.),
    14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308) and it could be shown that its binding to the histone stem
   loop sequence is dependent on the stem-loop structure and that the minimum binding site
   contains at least 3 nucleotides 5' and 2 nucleotides 3' of the stem-loop (Pandey, N. B., et al.
   (1994), Molecular and CellularBiology, 14(3), 1709-1720 and Williams, A. S., & Marzluff, W. F.,
15 (1995), Nucleic Acids Research, 23(4), 654-662.).
   Even though histone genes are generally classified as either "replication-dependent", giving rise
   to mRNA ending in a histone stem-loop, or "replacement-type", giving rise to mRNA bearing a
   poly(A)-tail instead, naturally occurring mRNAs containing both a histone stem-loop and
20 poly(A) or oligo(A) 3' thereof have been identified in some very rare cases. Sanchez et al.
   examined the effect of naturally occurring oligo(A) tails appended 3' of the histone stem-loop of
   histone mRNA during Xenopus oogenesis using Luciferase as a reporter protein and found that
   the oligo(A) tail is an active part of the translation repression mechanism that silences histone
   mRNA during oogenesis and its removal is part of the mechanism that activates translation of
25 histone mRNAs (Sanchez, R. and W. F. Marzluff (2004), Mol Cell Biol 24(6): 2513-25).
   Furthermore, the requirements for regulation of replication dependent histones at the level of
   pre-mRNA processing and mRNA stability have been investigated using artificial constructs
   coding for the marker protein alpha Globin, taking advantage of the fact that the globin gene
30 contains introns as opposed to the intron-less histone genes. For this purpose constructs were
   generated in which the alpha globin coding sequence was followed by a histone stem-loop signal
   (histone stem-loop followed by the histone downstream element) and a polyadenylation signal
   (Whitelaw, E., et al. (1986). Nucleic Acids Research, 14(17), 7059-7070.; Pandey, N. B., &
   Marzluff, W. F. (1987). Molecular and Cellular Biology, 7(12), 4557-4559.; Pandey, N. B., et al.
35 (1990). Nucleic Acids Research, 18(11), 3161-3170).

                                                     5
   In another approach Lfscher et al. investigated the cell-cycle dependent regulation of a
   recombinant histone H4 gene. Constructs were generated in which the H4 coding sequence was
   followed by a histone stem-loop signal and a polyadenylation signal, the two processing signals
 5 incidentally separated by a galactokinase coding sequence (Lfscher, B. et al., (1985). Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. USA, 82(13), 4389-4393).
   Additionally, Stauber et al. identified the minimal sequence required to confer cell-cycle
   regulation on histone H4 mRNA levels. For these investigations constructs were used,
10 comprising a coding sequence for the selection marker Xanthine:guanine                 phosphoribosyl
   transferase (GPT) preceding a histone stem-loop signal followed by a polyadenylation signal
   (Stauber, C. et al., (1986). EMBO J, 5(12), 3297-3303).
   Examining histone pre-mRNA processing Wagner et al. identified factors required for cleavage
15 of histone pre-mRNAs using a reporter construct placing EGFP between a histone stem-loop
   signal and a polyadenylation signal, such that EGFP was expressed only in case histone pre
   mRNA processing was disrupted (Wagner, E. J. et al., (2007). Mol Cell 28(4), 692-9).
   To be noted, translation of polyadenylated mRNA usually requires the 3' poly(A) sequence to be
20 brought into proximity of the 5' CAP. This is mediated through protein-protein interaction
   between the poly(A) binding protein and eukaryotic initiation factor eIF4G. With respect to
   replication-dependent histone mRNAs, an analogous mechanism has been uncovered. In this
   context, Gallie et al. show that the histone stem-loop is functionally similar to a poly(A) sequence
   in that it enhances translational efficiency and is co-dependent on a 5'-CAP in order to establish
25 an efficient level of translation. They showed that the histone stem-loop is sufficient and
   necessary to increase the translation of a reporter mRNA in transfected Chinese hamster ovary
   cells but must be positioned at the 3'-terminus in order to function optimally. Therefore, similar
   to the poly(A) tail on other mRNAs, the 3' end of these histone mRNAs appears to be essential
   for translation in vivo and is functionally analogous to a poly(A) tail (Gallie, D. R., Lewis, N. J., &
30 Marzluff, W. F. (1996), Nucleic Acids Research, 24(10), 1954-1962).
   Additionally, it could be shown that SLBP is bound to the cytoplasmic histone mRNA and is
   required for its translation. Even though SLBP does not interact directly with eIF4G, the
   domain required for translation of histone mRNA interacts with the recently identified protein
35 SLIPI. In a further step, SLIPI interacts with eIF4G and allows to circularize histone mRNA

                                                      6
   and to support efficient translation of histone mRNA by a mechanism similar to the translation of
   polyadenylated mRNAs.
   As mentioned above, gene therapy approaches normally use DNA to transfer the coding
 5 information into the cell which is then transcribed into mRNA, carrying the naturally occurring
   elements of an mRNA, particularly the 5'-CAP structure and the 3' poly(A) sequence to ensure
   expression of the encoded therapeutic or antigenic protein.
   However, in many cases expression systems based on the introduction of such nucleic acids into
10 the patient's cells or tissue and the subsequent expression of the desired polypeptides coded for
   by these nucleic acids do not exhibit the desired, or even the required, level of expression which
   may allow for an efficient therapy, irrespective as to whether DNA or RNA is used.
   In the prior art, different attempts have hitherto been made to increase the yield of the
15 expression of an encoded protein, in particular by use of improved expression systems, both in
   vitro and/or in vivo. Methods for increasing expression described generally in the prior art are
   conventionally based on the use of expression vectors or cassettes containing specific promoters
   and corresponding regulation elements. As these expression vectors or cassettes are typically
   limited to particular cell systems, these expression systems have to be adapted for use in different
20 cell systems. Such adapted expression vectors or cassettes are then usually transfected into the
   cells and typically treated in dependence of the specific cell line. Therefore, preference is given
   primarily to those nucleic acid molecules which are able to express the encoded proteins in a
   target cell by systems inherent in the cell, independent of promoters and regulation elements
   which are specific for particular cell types. In this context, there can be distinguished between
25 mRNA stabilizing elements and elements which increase translation efficiency of the mRNA.
   mRNAs which are optimized in their coding sequence and which are in general suitable for such
   a purpose are described in application WO 02/098443 (CureVac GmbH). For example, WO
   02/098443 describes mRNAs that are stabilised in general form and optimised for translation in
30 their coding regions. WO 02/098443 further discloses a method for determining sequence
   modifications. WO 02/098443 additionally describes possibilities for substituting adenine and
   uracil nucleotides in mRNA sequences in order to increase the guanine/cytosine (G/C) content
   of the sequences. According to WO 02/098443, such substitutions and adaptations for increasing
   the G/C content can be used for gene therapeutic applications but also genetic vaccines in the
35 treatment of cancer or infectious diseases. In this context, WO 02/098443 generally mentions
   sequences as a base sequence for such modifications, in which the modified mRNA codes for at

                                                     7
   least one biologically active peptide or polypeptide, which is translated in the patient to be
   treated, for example, either not at all or inadequately or with faults. Alternatively, WO
   02/098443 proposes mRNAs coding for antigens e.g. tumour antigens or viral antigens as a base
   sequence for such modifications.
 5
   In a further approach to increase the expression of an encoded protein the application WO
   2007/036366 describes the positive effect of long poly(A) sequences (particularly longer than 120
   bp) and the combination of at least two 3' untranslated regions of the beta globin gene on mRNA
   stability and translational activity.
10
   However, even though all these latter prior art documents already try to provide quite efficient
   tools for gene therapy approaches and additionally improved mRNA stability and translational
   activity, there still remains the problem of a generally lower stability of RNA-based applications
   versus DNA vaccines and DNA based gene therapeutic approaches. Accordingly, there still
15 exists a need in the art to provide improved tools for gene therapy approaches and genetic
   vaccination or as a supplementary therapy for conventional treatments as discussed above, which
   allow for better provision of encoded proteins in vivo, e.g. via a further improved mRNA stability
   and/or translational activity, preferably for gene therapy and genetic vaccination.
20 Furthermore despite of all progress in the art, efficient expression of an encoded peptide or
   protein in cell-free systems, cells or organisms (recombinant expression) is still a challenging
   problem.
   The invention provides additional and/or alternative methods to increase expression of an
25 encoded protein, preferably via further stabilization of the mRNA and/or an increase of the
   translational efficiency of such an mRNA with respect to such nucleic acids known from the prior
   art for the use in genetic vaccination in the therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of cancer or
   tumour diseases.
30 The present invention provides, in a first aspect, a nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
        a)  a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour
            antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof;
        b)  at least one histone stem-loop, and
        c)  a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal,
35 preferably for increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein.

                                                     8
   Alternatively, any appropriate stem loop sequence other than a histone stem loop sequence
   (derived from histone genes, in particular histone genes of the families Hi, H2A, H2B, Hs and
   H4)) may be employed by the present invention in all of its aspects and embodiments.
 5 In this context it is particularly preferred that the inventive nucleic acid according to the first
   aspect of the present invention is produced at least partially by DNA or RNA synthesis,
   preferably as described herein or is an isolated nucleic acid.
   The present invention is based on the surprising finding of the present inventors, that the
10 combination of a poly(A) sequence or polyadenylation signal and at least one histone stem-loop,
   even though both representing alternative mechanisms in nature, acts synergistically as this
   combination increases the protein expression manifold above the level observed with either of the
   individual elements. The synergistic effect of the combination of poly(A) and at least one histone
   stem-loop is seen irrespective of the order of poly(A) and histone stem-loop and irrespective of
15 the length of the poly(A) sequence.
   Therefore it is particularly preferred that the inventive nucleic acid sequence comprises or codes
   for a) a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen
   or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof; b) at least one histone stem-loop, and c) a poly(A)
20 sequence or polyadenylation sequence; preferably for increasing the expression level of said
   encoded peptide or protein. In some embodiments, it may be preferred if the encoded protein is
   not a histone protein, in particular no histone protein of the H4, H3, H2A and/or H2B histone
   family or a fragment, derivative or variant thereof retaining histone(-like) function), namely
   forming a nucleosome. Also, the encoded protein typically does not correspond to a histone
25 linker protein of the Hi histone family. The inventive nucleic acid molecule does typically not
   contain any regulatory signals (5' and/or, particularly, 3' of a mouse histone gene, in particular
   not of a mouse histone gene H2A and, further, most preferably not of the mouse histone gene
   H2A614. In particular, it does not contain a histone stem loop and/or a histone stem loop
   processing signal from a mouse histone gene, in particular not of mouse histone gene H2A und,
30 most preferably not of mouse histone gene H2A614.
   Also, the inventive nucleic acid typically does not provide a reporter protein (e.g. Luciferase,
   GFP, EGFP, j-Galactosidase, particularly EGFP) galactokinase (galK) and/or marker or
   selection protein    (e.g. alpha-Globin,   galactokinase   and Xanthine:Guanine    phosphoribosyl

                                                     9
   transferase (GPT)) or a bacterial reporter protein, e.g. chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT)
   or other bacterial antibiotics resistance proteins, e.g. derived from the bacterial neo gene in its
   element (a).
   A reporter, marker or selection protein is typically understood not to be a tumour antigen
 5 according to the invention. A reporter, marker or selection protein or its underlying gene is
   commonly used as a research tool in bacteria, cell culture, animals or plants. They confer on
   organisms (preferably heterologously) expressing them an easily identifiable property, which
   may be measured or which allows for selection. Specifically, marker or selection proteins exhibit
   a selectable function. Typically, such selection, marker or reporter proteins do not naturally
10 occur in humans or other mammals, but are derived from other organisms, in particular from
   bacteria or plants. Accordingly, proteins with selection, marker or reporter function originating
   from species other than mammals, in particular other than humans, are preferably excluded from
   being understood as a protein having the property to act as a "tumour antigen" according to the
   present invention. In particular, a selection, marker or reporter protein allows to identify
15 transformed cells by in vitro assays based e.g. on fluorescence or other spectroscopic techniques
   and resistance towards antibiotics. Selection, reporter or marker genes awarding such properties
   to transformed cells are therefore typically not understood to be a protein acting as a tumour
   antigen according to the invention in vivo.
   In any case, reporter, marker or selection proteins do usually not exert any tumour antigenic
20 properties and, therefore, do not exert an immunological effect which therapeutically allows to
   treat tumour diseases. If any single reporter, marker or selection protein should nevertheless do
   so (in addition to its reporter, selection or marker function), such a reporter, marker or selection
   protein is preferably not understood to be a "tumour antigen" within the meaning of the present
   invention.
25 In contrast, a protein or peptide acting as a tumour antigen (in particular excluding histone
   genes of the families Hi, H2A, H2B, H3 and H4) according to the present invention does
   typically not exhibit a selection, marker or reporter function. If any single "tumour antigen"
   nevertheless should do so (in addition to its tumour antigenic function), such a tumour antigen is
   preferably not understood to be a "selection, marker or reporter protein" within the meaning of
30 the present invention.
   It is most preferably understood that a protein acting as tumour antigen according to the
   invention is derived from mammals, in particular humans, in particular from mammalian
   tumours, and does not qualify as selection, marker or reporter protein. In particular, such tumour

                                                      10
   antigens are derived from mammalian, in particular from human tumours. These                  tumour
   antigenic proteins are understood to be antigenic, as they are meant to treat the subject by
   triggering the subject's immune response such that the subject's immune system is enabled to
   combat the subject's tumor cells by TH1 and/or TH2 immune responses. Accordingly, such
 5 antigenic tumour proteins are typically mammalian, in particular human proteins characterizing
   the subject's cancer type.
   Accordingly, it is preferred that the coding region (a) encoding at least one peptide or protein is
   heterologous to at least (b) the at least one histone stem loop, or more broadly, to any
10 appropriate stem loop. In other words, "heterologous" in the context of the present invention
   means that the at least one stem loop sequence does not naturally occur as a (regulatory)
   sequence (e.g. at the   S'UTR) of the specific gene, which encodes the (tumour antigenic) protein or
   peptide of element (a) of the inventive nucleic acid. Accordingly, the (histone) stem loop of the
   inventive nucleic acid is derived preferably from the 3' UTR of a gene other than the one
15 comprising the coding region of element (a) of the inventive nucleic acid. E.g., the coding region
   of element (a) will not encode a histone protein or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof
   (retaining the function of a histone protein), if the inventive nucleic is heterologous, but will
   encode any other peptide or sequence (of the same or another species) which exerts a biological
   function, preferably tumour antigenic function other than a histone(-like) function, e.g. will
20 encode a protein (exerting a tumour antigenic function, e.g. in terms of vaccinating against
   mammalian, in particular human tumours thereby triggering a immunological reaction against
   the subject's tumour cells, which preferably express the tumour antigen encoded by the inventive
   nucleic acid.
25
   In this context it is particularly preferred that the inventive nucleic acid comprises or codes for in
   5'- to 3'-direction:
        a)  a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour
            antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof;
30      b)  at least one histone stem-loop, optionally without a histone downstream element (HDE)
             3' to the histone stem-loop
        c)  a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal.
   The term "histone downstream element (HDE) refers to a purine-rich polynucleotide stretch of
35 about 15 to 20 nucleotides 3' of naturally occurring histone stem-loops, which represents the

                                                    II
   binding site for the U7 snRNA involved in processing of histone pre-mRNA into mature histone
   mRNA. For example in sea urchins the HDE is CAAGAAAGA                    (Dominski, Z. and W. F.
   Marzluff (2007), Gene 396(2): 373-90).
 5 Furthermore it is preferable that the inventive nucleic acid according to the first aspect of the
   present invention does not comprise an intron.
   In another particular preferred embodiment, the inventive nucleic acid sequence according to the
   first aspect of the present invention comprises or codes for from 5' to 3':
10      a)    a coding region, preferably encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a
             tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof;
        c)  a poly(A) sequence; and
        b)  at least one histone stem-loop.
15 The inventive nucleic acid sequence according to the first embodiment of the present invention
   comprise any suitable nucleic acid, selected e.g. from any (single-stranded or double-stranded)
   DNA, preferably, without being limited thereto, e.g. genomic DNA, plasmid DNA, single
   stranded DNA molecules, double-stranded DNA molecules, or may be selected e.g. from any
   PNA (peptide nucleic acid) or may be selected e.g. from any (single-stranded or double-stranded)
20 RNA, preferably a messenger RNA (mRNA); etc. The inventive nucleic acid sequence may also
   comprise a viral RNA (vRNA). However, the inventive nucleic acid sequence may not be a viral
   RNA or may not contain a viral RNA. More specifically, the inventive nucleic acid sequence may
   not contain viral sequence elements, e.g. viral enhancers or viral promotors (e.g. no inactivated
   viral promoter or sequence elements, more specifically not inactivated by replacement strategies),
25 or other viral sequence elements, or viral or retroviral nucleic acid sequences. More specifically,
   the inventive nucleic acid sequence may not be a retroviral or viral vector or a modified retroviral
   or viral vector.
   In any case, the inventive nucleic acid sequence may or may not contain an enhancer and/or
30 promoter sequence, which may be modified or not or which may be activated or not. The
   enhancer and or promoter may be plant expressible or not expressible, and/or in eukaryotes
   expressible or not expressible and/or in prokaryotes         expressible or not expressible. The
   inventive nucleic acid sequence may contain a sequence encoding a (self-splicing) ribozyme or
   not.
35

                                                     12
   In specific embodiments the inventive nucleic acid sequence may be or may comprise a self
   replicating RNA (replicon).
   Preferably, the inventive nucleic acid sequence is a plasmid DNA, or an RNA, particularly an
 5 mRNA.
   In particular embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, the inventive nucleic acid
   is a nucleic acid sequence comprised in a nucleic acid suitable for in vitro transcription,
   particularly in an appropriate in vitro transcription vector (e.g. a plasmid or a linear nucleic acid
10 sequence comprising specific promoters for in vitro transcription such as Ts, T7 or SpG
   promoters).
   In further particular preferred embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, the
   inventive nucleic acid is comprised in a nucleic acid suitable for transcription and/or translation
15 in an expression system (e.g. in an expression vector or plasmid), particularly a prokaryotic (e.g.
   bacteria like E. coh) or eukaryotic (e.g. mammalian cells like CHO cells, yeast cells or insect cells
   or whole organisms like plants or animals) expression system.
   The term "expression system" means a system (cell culture or whole organisms) which is suitable
20 for production of peptides, proteins or RNA particularly mRNA (recombinant expression).
   The inventive nucleic acid sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention
   comprises or codes for at least one histone stem-loop.     In the context of the present invention,
   such a histone stem-loop , in general (irrespective of whether it is a histone stem loop or not),is
25 typically derived from histone genes and comprises an intramolecular base pairing of two
   neighbored entirely or partially reverse complementary sequences, thereby forming a stem-loop.
   A stem-loop can occur in single-stranded DNA or, more commonly, in RNA. The structure is
   also known as a hairpin or hairpin loop and usually consists of a stem and a (terminal) loop
   within a consecutive sequence, wherein the stem is formed by two neighbored entirely or
30 partially reverse complementary sequences separated by a short sequence as sort of spacer, which
   builds the loop of the stem-loop structure. The two neighbored entirely or partially reverse
   complementary sequences may be defined as e.g. stem loop elements stem and stem2. The stem
   loop is formed when these two neighbored entirely or partially reverse complementary
   sequences, e.g. stem loop elements stem 1 and stem2, form base-pairs with each other, leading to a
35 double stranded nucleic acid sequence stretch comprising an unpaired loop at its terminal ending
   formed by the short sequence located between stem loop elements stem and stem2 on the

                                                     13
   consecutive sequence. The unpaired loop thereby typically represents a region of the nucleic acid
   which is not capable of base pairing with either of these stem loop elements. The resulting
   lollipop-shaped structure is a key building block of many RNA secondary structures.             The
   formation of a stem-loop structure is thus dependent on the stability of the resulting stem and
 5 loop regions, wherein the first prerequisite is typically the presence of a sequence that can fold
   back on itself to form a paired double strand. The stability of paired stem loop elements is
   determined by the length, the number of mismatches or bulges it contains (a small number of
   mismatches is typically tolerable, especially in a long double stranded stretch), and the base
   composition of the paired region. In the context of the present invention, a loop length of 3 to 15
10 bases is conceivable, while a more preferred loop length is 3-10 bases, more preferably 3 to 8, 3 to
   7, 3 to 6 or even more preferably 4 to 5 bases, and most preferably 4 bases. The stem sequence
   forming the double stranded structure typically has a length of between 5 to 10 bases, more
   preferably, between 5 to 8 bases.
15 In the context of the present invention, a histone stem-loop is typically derived from histone
   genes (e.g. genes from the histone families Hi, H2A, H2B, H3, H4) and comprises an
   intramolecular base pairing of two neighbored entirely or partially reverse complementary
   sequences, thereby forming a stem-loop. Typically, a histone '3 UTR stem-loop is an RNA
   element involved in nucleocytoplasmic transport of the histone mRNAs, and in the regulation of
20 stability and of translation efficiency in the cytoplasm. The mRNAs of metazoan histone genes
   lack polyadenylation and a poly-A tail, instead 3' end processing occurs at a site between this
   highly conserved stem-loop and a purine rich region around 20 nucleotides downstream (the
   histone downstream element, or HDE). The histone stem-loop is bound by a 31 kDa stem-loop
   binding protein (SLBP - also termed the histone hairpin binding protein, or HBP). Such histone
25 stem-loop structures are preferably employed by the present invention in combination with other
   sequence elements and structures, which do not occur naturally (which means in untransformed
   living organisms/cells) in histone genes, but are combined - according to the invention - to
   provide an artificial, heterologous nucleic acid. Accordingly, the present invention is particularly
   based on the finding that an artificial (non-native) combination of a histone stem-loop structure
30 with other heterologous sequence elements, which do not occur in histone genes or metazoan
   histone genes and are isolated from operational and/or regulatory sequence regions (influencing
   transcription and/or translation) of genes coding for proteins other than histones, provide
   advantageous effects. Accordingly, one aspect of the invention provides the combination of a
   histone   stem-loop     structure  with   a  poly(A)  sequence   or  a  sequence   representing     a
35 polyadenylation signal (3'-terminal of a coding region), which does not occur in metazoan histone
   genes. According to another preferred aspect of the invention, a combination of a histone stem-

                                                     14
   loop structure with a coding region coding for a tumour antigenic protein, which does, preferably
   not occur in metazoan histone genes, is provided herewith (coding region and histone stem loop
   sequence   are heterologous). It is preferred, if such tumour antigenic proteins occur             in
   mammalian, preferably humans, when suffering from tumour diseases. In a still further preferred
 5 embodiment, all the elements (a), (b) and (c) of the inventive nucleic acid are heterologous to each
   other and are combined artificially from three different sources, e.g. the (a) tumour antigenic
   protein coding region from a human gene, (b) the histone stem loop from the untranslated region
   of a metazoan, e.g. mammalian, non-human or human, histone gene and (c) the poly(A) sequence
   or the polyadenylation signal from e.g. an untranslated region of a gene other than a histone
10 gene and other than the untranslated region of the tumour antigen coding region according to
   element (a) of such an inventive nucleic acid.
   A histone stem loop is, therefore, a stem-loop structure as described herein, which, if preferably
   functionally defined, exhibits/retains the property of binding to its natural binding partner, the
15 stem-loop binding protein (SLBP - also termed the histone hairpin binding protein, or HBP).
   According to the present invention the histone stem loop sequence according to component (b) of
   claim 1 may not derived from a mouse histone protein. More specifically, the histone stem loop
   sequence may not be derived from mouse histone gene H2A614. Also, the nucleic acid of the
20 invention may neither contain a mouse histone stem loop sequence nor contain mouse histone
   gene H2A614. Further, the inventive nucleic acid sequence may not contain a stem-loop
   processing signal, more specifically, a mouse histone processing signal and, most specifically,
   may not contain mouse stem loop processing signal H2kA614, even if the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence may contain at least one mammalian histone gene. However, the at least one
25 mammalian histone gene may not be Seq. ID No. 7 of WO 0 1/12824.
   According to one preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence comprises or codes for at least one histone stem-loop sequence, preferably according to at
   least one of the following formulae (I) or (II):
30

                                                   15
   formula (I) (stem-loop sequence without stem bordering elements):
 5                    [NO2 GNs3 _] [NO_4(U/T)NO_ 4] [Ns3_CNo-2 ]
                          stem 1              loop                 stem2
   formula (II) (stem-loop sequence with stem bordering elements):
10
                    N 1 -6 [No 2 GNs3 _] [No_4(U/T)No_ 4] [Ns3 _CNo2 ] N1-6
                    stem         stemI              loop               stem2       stem2
         bordering element                                                   bordering element
15
   wherein:
   stemI or stem2 bordering elements   N 1 _6      is a consecutive sequence of 1 to 6, preferably of 2 to
                                                   6, more preferably of 2 to 5, even more preferably of
20                                                 3 to 5, most preferably of 4 to 5 or 5 N, wherein each
                                                   N is independently from another selected from a
                                                   nucleotide selected from A, U, T, G and C, or a
                                                   nucleotide analogue thereof;
25 stem  [No-2 GNs_5]                              is reverse complementary or partially reverse
                                                   complementary with element stem2, and is a
                                                   consecutive    sequence   between     of  5   to   7
                                                   nucleotides;
30                                                 wherein N11 is a consecutive sequence of 0 to 2,
                                                   preferably of 0 to 1, more preferably of 1 N,
                                                   wherein each N is independently from another
                                                   selected from a nucleotide selected from A, U, T,
                                                   G and C or a nucleotide analogue thereof;
35

                                  16
                                  wherein N,-- is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5,
                                  preferably of 4 to 5, more preferably of 4 N,
                                  wherein each N is independently from another
                                  selected from a nucleotide selected from A, U, T,
 5                                G and C or a nucleotide analogue thereof, and
                                  wherein G is guanosine or an analogue thereof,
                                  and may be optionally replaced by a cytidine or
                                  an    analogue     thereof,    provided     that   its
10                                complementary nucleotide cytidine in stem2 is
                                  replaced by guanosine;
   loop sequence [No_4 (U/T)No_4] is located between elements stem and stem2, and
                                  is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5 nucleotides,
15                                more preferably of 4 nucleotides;
                                  wherein each N,_4 is independent from another a
                                  consecutive sequence of 0 to 4, preferably of 1 to
                                  3, more preferably of 1 to 2 N, wherein each N is
20                                independently    from   another    selected   from a
                                  nucleotide selected from A, U, T, G and C or a
                                  nucleotide analogue thereof; and
                                  wherein U/T represents uridine, or optionally
                                  thymidine;
25 stem2  [Ns_5CNo_2]             is reverse complementary or partially reverse
                                  complementary with element stem,            and is a
                                  consecutive    sequence     between    of   5   to   7
                                  nucleotides;
30                                wherein N-s, is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5,
                                  preferably of 4 to 5, more preferably of 4 N,
                                  wherein each N is independently from another
                                  selected from a nucleotide selected from A, U, T,
                                  G and C or a nucleotide analogue thereof;

                                                    17
                                                   wherein N,,, is a consecutive sequence of 0 to 2,
                                                   preferably of 0 to 1, more preferably of 1 N,
                                                   wherein each N is independently from another
 5                                                 selected from a nucleotide selected from A, U, T,
                                                   G or C or a nucleotide analogue thereof; and
                                                   wherein C is cytidine or an analogue thereof, and
                                                   may be optionally replaced by a guanosine or an
10                                                 analogue thereof provided that its complementary
                                                   nucleotide guanosine in stem is replaced by
                                                   cytidine;
           wherein
           stem    and stem2 are capable of base pairing with each other forming a reverse
15         complementary sequence, wherein base pairing may occur between stem and stem2, e.g.
            by Watson-Crick base pairing of nucleotides A and U/T or G and C or by non-Watson
            Crick base pairing e.g. wobble base pairing, reverse Watson-Crick base pairing,
            Hoogsteen base pairing, reverse Hoogsteen base pairing or are capable of base pairing
            with each other forming a partially reverse complementary sequence, wherein an
20          incomplete base pairing may occur between stem and stem2, on the basis that one or
           more bases in one stem do not have a complementary base in the reverse complementary
            sequence of the other stem.
   In the above context, a wobble base pairing is typically a non-Watson-Crick base pairing
25 between two nucleotides. The four main wobble base pairs in the present context, which may be
   used, are guanosine-uridine, inosine-uridine, inosine-adenosine, inosine-cytidine (G-U/T, I-U/T,
   I-A and I-C) and adenosine-cytidine (A-C).
   Accordingly, in the context of the present invention, a wobble base is a base, which forms a
30 wobble base pair with a further base as described above. Therefore non-Watson-Crick base
   pairing, e.g. wobble base pairing, may occur in the stem of the histone stem-loop structure
   according to the present invention.
   In the above context a partially reverse complementary sequence comprises maximally 2,
35 preferably only one mismatch in the stem-structure of the stem-loop sequence formed by base
   pairing of stem and stem2. In other words, stem and stem2 are preferably capable of (full) base

                                                    18
   pairing with each other throughout the entire sequence of stem and stem2         (100%   of possible
   correct  Watson-Crick     or non-Watson-Crick       base pairings), thereby    forming   a   reverse
   complementary sequence, wherein each base has its correct Watson-Crick or non-Watson-Crick
   base pendant as a complementary binding partner. Alternatively, stem 1 and stem2 are preferably
 5 capable of partial base pairing with each other throughout the entire sequence of stem and
   stem2, wherein at least about 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% of the 100% possible correct
   Watson-Crick or non-Watson-Crick base pairings are occupied with the correct Watson-Crick
   or non-Watson-Crick base pairings and at most about 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, or 5% of the
   remaining bases are unpaired.
10
   According to a preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the at least one histone stem
   loop sequence (with stem bordering elements) of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined
   herein comprises a length of about 15 to about 45 nucleotides, preferably a length of about 15 to
   about 40 nucleotides, preferably a length of about 15 to about 35 nucleotides, preferably a length
15 of about 15 to about 30 nucleotides and even more preferably a length of about 20 to about 30
   and most preferably a length of about 24 to about 28 nucleotides.
   According to a further preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the at least one histone
   stem-loop sequence (without stem bordering elements) of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as
20 defined herein comprises a length of about 10 to about 30 nucleotides, preferably a length of
   about 10 to about 20 nucleotides, preferably a length of about 12 to about 20 nucleotides,
   preferably a length of about 14 to about 20 nucleotides and even more preferably a length of
   about 16 to about 17 and most preferably a length of about 16 nucleotides.
25 According to a further preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention may comprise or code for at least one
   histone stem-loop sequence according to at least one of the following specific formulae (Ia) or (Ila):
   formula (Ia) (stem-loop sequence without stem bordering elements):
30
                  [No_1 GNs_5] [N 1_3(U/T)No_ 2] [Ns_5CNo_1]
                     stem                   loop                stem2
35 formula (Ila) (stem-loop sequence with stem bordering elements):

                                                     19
             N 2 -5 [No_1 GNs3_] [Ni_3 (U/T)No 2 ] [Ns_CNo_1 ] N 2 -5
            stemI        stemI                loop                stem        stem
    bordering element                                                     bordering element
 5
   wherein:
   N, C, G, T and U                                  are as defined above.
10 According to a further more particularly preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence may comprise or code for at least one histone stem-loop sequence according to
   at least one of the following specific formulae (Ib) or (Ib):

                                                    20
   formula (Ib) (stem-loop sequence without stem bordering elements):
                                [N 1 GN 4] [N 2(U/T)N1 ] [N4 CN 1 ]
 5
                                         stem 1          loop          stem2
   formula (1Ib) (stem-loop sequence with stem bordering elements):
10
                         N 4 _5 [N1GN 4] [N 2(U/T)N1 ] [N 4 CNI] N 4 _5
                         stem     stem               loop           stem2     stem2
                 bordering element                                         bordering element
15
   wherein:
   N, C, G, T and U                                 are as defined above.
20
   According to an even more preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention may comprise or code for at least
   one histone stem-loop sequence according to at least one of the following specific formulae (Ic) to
   (Ih) or (I1c)  to (IIh), shown alternatively in its stem-loop structure and as a linear sequence
25 representing histone stem-loop sequences as generated according to Example 1:

                                                 21
   formula (Ic): (metazoan and protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence without stem
   bordering elements):
                                NU
 5                           N        N
                               N-N
                               N-N
                               N-N
                               N-N
10                             G-C
                               N-N     (stem-loop structure)
                  NGNNNNNNUNNNNNCN
                  (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 1)
15
   formula (I1c): (metazoan and protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence with stem
   bordering elements):
20
                                  NU
                                N       N
                                 N-N
                                 N-N
25                               N-N
                                 N-N
                                  G-C
                  N*N*NNNN-NNNN*N*N*                         (stem-loop structure)
30                N*N*NNNNGNNNNNNUNNNNNCNNNN*N*N*
                  (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 2)

                                                  22
   formula (Id): (without stem bordering elements)
                                NU
                              N       N
                                N-N
 5                              N-N
                                N-N
                                N-N
                                C-G
                                N-N     (stem-loop structure)
10
                   NCNNNNNNUNNNNNGN
                   (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 3)
15
   formula (Ild): (with stem bordering elements)
                                  NU
                                 N      N
20                                N-N
                                  N-N
                                  N-N
                                  N-N
                                   C-G
25                 N*N*NNNN-NNNN*N*N*                         (stem-loop structure)
                   N*N*NNNNCNNNNNNUNNNNNGNNNN*N*N*
                   (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 4)
30

                                                   23
   formula (le): (protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence without stem bordering elements)
                                 NU
                               N       N
                                 N-N
 5                               N-N
                                 N-N
                                 N-N
                                 G-C
10                               D-H     (stem-loop structure)
                    DGNNNNNNUNNNNNCH
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 5)
15
   formula (Ile): (protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence with stem bordering elements)
                                   NU
                                  N      N
20                                  N-N
                                   N-N
                                   N-N
                                   N-N
                                    G-C
25                  N*N*NNND-HNNN*N*N*                         (stem-loop structure)
                    N*N*NNNDGNNNNNNUNNNNNCHNNN*N*N*
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 6)
30

                                                   24
   formula (If): (metazoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence without stem bordering elements)
                                 NU
                               N       N
 5                               Y-V
                                 Y-N
                                 B-D
                                 N-N
                                 G-C
10                               N-N     (stem-loop structure)
                    NGNBYYNNUNVNDNCN
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 7)
15
   formula (Ilf): (metazoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence with stem bordering elements)
20                                 N U
                                  N      N
                                   Y-V
                                   Y-N
                                    B-D
25                                 N-N
                                    G-C
                    N*N*NNNN-NNNN*N*N*                         (stem-loop structure)
                    N*N*NNNNGNBYYNNUNVNDNCNNNN*N*N*
30                  (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 8)

                                                   25
   formula (Ig):   (vertebrate histone stem-loop consensus      sequence  without stem bordering
   elements)
                                 NU
                               D       H
 5                               Y-A
                                 Y-B
                                 Y-R
                                 H-D
                                 G-C
10                               N-N     (stem-loop structure)
                    NGHYYYDNUHABRDCN
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 9)
15
   formula (I1g): (vertebrate histone stem-loop consensus sequence with stem bordering elements)
                                   NU
20                                D      H
                                   Y-A
                                   Y-B
                                   Y-R
                                    H-D
25                                  G-C
                    N*N*HNNN-NNNN*N*H*                         (stem-loop structure)
                    N*N*HNNNGHYYYDNUHABRDCNNNN*N*H*
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 10)
30

                                                    26
   formula (Ih): (human histone stem-loop consensus sequence (Homo sapiens) without stem
   bordering elements)
                                Y U
                               D     H
 5                              U-A
                                C-S
                                Y-R
                                H-R
                                G-C
10                              D-C     (stem-loop structure)
                    DGHYCUDYUHASRRCC
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 11)
15
   formula (IIh): (human histone stem-loop consensus sequence              (Homo sapiens) with stem
   bordering elements)
20
                                   YU
                                 D      H
                                   U-A
                                   C-S
25                                 Y-R
                                   H-R
                                   G-C
                    N*H*AAHD-CVHB*N*H*                           (stem loop structure)
30                  N*H*AAHDGHYCUDYUHASRRCCVHB*N*H*
                    (linear sequence) (SEQ ID NO: 12)
   wherein in each of above formulae (Ic) to (Ih) or (I1c) to (IIh):
35
   N, C, G, A, T and U are as defined above;
   each U may be replaced by T;
   each (highly) conserved G or C in the stem elements 1 and 2 may be replaced by its complementary
   nucleotide base C or G, provided that its complementary nucleotide in the corresponding stem is
40 replaced by its complementary nucleotide in parallel; and/or

                                                     27
   G, A, T, U, C, R, Y, M, K, S, W, H, B, V, D, and N are nucleotide bases as defined in the following
   Table:
     abbreviation    Nucleotide bases        remark
           G         G                       Guanine
           A         A                       Adenine
           T         T                       Thymine
           U         U                       Uracile
           C         C                       Cytosine
           R         GorA                    Purine
           Y         T/U or C                Pyrimidine
          M          AorC                    Amino
           K         G or T/U                Keto
           S         G or C                  Strong (3H bonds)
          W          A or T/U                Weak (2H bonds)
           H         AorCorT/U               NotG
           B         GorT/UorC               Not A
           V         GorCorA                 Not T/U
           D         GorAorT/U               NotC
           N         GorCorT/UorA            Any base
           *         Present or not          Base may be present or not
 5 In this context it is particularly preferred that the histone stem-loop sequence according to at
   least one of the formulae (I) or (Ia) to (Ih) or (II) or (Ila) to (IIh) of the present invention is
   selected from a naturally occurring histone stem loop sequence, more particularly preferred from
   protozoan or metazoan histone stem-loop sequences, and even more particularly preferred from
   vertebrate and mostly preferred from mammalian histone stem-loop sequences especially from
10 human histone stem-loop sequences.
   According to a particularly preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the histone stem-loop sequence
   according to at least one of the specific formulae (I) or (Ia) to (Ih) or (II) or (Ila) to (IIh) of the
   present invention is a histone stem-loop sequence comprising at each nucleotide position the most
15 frequently occurring nucleotide, or either the most frequently or the second-most frequently
   occurring nucleotide of naturally occurring histone stem-loop sequences in metazoa and protozoa
   (Fig. 1), protozoa (Fig. 2), metazoa (Fig.   3), vertebrates (Fig. 4) and humans (Fig. 5) as shown in
   figure 1-5. In this context it is particularly preferred that at least 80%, preferably at least 85%, or
   most preferably at least 90% of all nucleotides correspond to the most frequently occurring
20 nucleotide of naturally occurring histone stem-loop sequences.
   In a further particular embodiment of the first aspect, the histone stem-loop sequence according to
   at least one of the specific formulae (I) or (Ia) to (Ih) of the present invention is selected from

                                                 28
   following histone stem-loop sequences (without stem-bordering elements) representing histone
   stem-loop sequences as generated according to Example 1:
   VGYYYYHHTHRVVRCB (SEQ ID NO: 13 according to formula (Ic))
 5 SGYYYTTYTMARRRCS (SEQ ID NO: 14 according to formula (Ic))
   SGYYCTTTTMAGRRCS (SEQ ID NO: 15 according to formula (Ic))
   DGNNNBNNTHVNNNCH            (SEQ ID NO: 16 according to formula (le))
   RGNNNYHBTHRDNNCY (SEQ ID NO: 17 according to formula (le))
10 RGNDBYHYTHRDHNCY (SEQ ID NO: 18 according to formula (le))
   VGYYYTYHTHRVRRCB (SEQ ID NO: 19 according to formula (If))
   SGYYCTTYTMAGRRCS (SEQ ID NO: 20 according to formula (If))
   SGYYCTTTTMAGRRCS (SEQ ID NO: 21 according to formula (If))
15
   GGYYCTTYTHAGRRCC (SEQ ID NO: 22 according to formula (Ig))
   GGCYCTTYTMAGRGCC (SEQ ID NO: 23 according to formula (Ig))
   GGCTCTTTTMAGRGCC (SEQ ID NO: 24 according to formula (Ig))
20 DGHYCTDYTHASRRCC (SEQ ID NO: 25 according to formula (Ih))
   GGCYCTTTTHAGRGCC (SEQ ID NO: 26 according to formula (Ih))
   GGCYCTTTTMAGRGCC (SEQ ID NO: 27 according to formula (Ih))
   Furthermore in this context following histone stem-loop sequences (with stem bordering elements)
25 as generated according to Example 1 according to one of specific formulae (II) or (Ila) to (IIh) are
   particularly preferred:
   H*H*HHVVGYYYYHHTHRVVRCBVHH*N*N* (SEQ ID NO: 28 according to formula (I1c))
   M*H*MHMSGYYYTTYTMARRRCSMCH*H*H*                      (SEQ ID NO: 29 according to formula (I1c))
30 M*M*MMMSGYYCTTTTMAGRRCSACH*M*H* (SEQ ID NO: 30 according to formula (I1c))
   N*N*NNNDGNNNBNNTHVNNNCHNHN*N*N*                     (SEQ ID NO: 31 according to formula (Ile))
   N*N*HHNRGNNNYHBTHRDNNCYDHH*N*N*                     (SEQ ID NO: 32 according to formula (Ile))
   N*H*HHVRGNDBYHYTHRDHNCYRHH*H*H* (SEQ ID NO: 33 according to formula (Ile))
35
   H*H*MHMVGYYYTYHTHRVRRCBVMH*H*N* (SEQ ID NO: 34 according to formula (Ilf))

                                                   29
   M*M*MMMSGYYCTTYTMAGRRCSMCH*H*H* (SEQ ID NO: 35 according to formula (Ilf))
   M*M*MMMSGYYCTTTTMAGRRCSACH*M*H* (SEQ ID NO: 36 according to formula (Ilf))
   H*H*MAMGGYYCTTYTHAGRRCCVHN*N*M* (SEQ ID NO: 37 according to formula (Ilg))
 5 H*H*AAMGGCYCTTYTMAGRGCCVCH*H*M* (SEQ ID NO: 38 according to formula (Ilg))
   M*M*AAMGGCTCTTTTMAGRGCCMCY*M*M* (SEQ ID NO: 39 according to formula (Ilg))
   N*H*AAHDGHYCTDYTHASRRCCVHB*N*H* (SEQ ID NO: 40 according to formula (IIh))
   H*H*AAMGGCYCTTTTHAGRGCCVMY*N*M* (SEQ ID NO: 41 according to formula (IIh))
10 H*M*AAAGGCYCTTTTMAGRGCCRMY*H*M* (SEQ ID NO: 42 according to formula (IIh))
   According to a further preferred embodiment of the first inventive aspect, the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence comprises or codes for at least one histone stem-loop sequence showing at least about 80%,
   preferably at least about 85%, more preferably at least about 90%, or even more preferably at least
15 about 95%, sequence identity with the not to 100% conserved nucleotides in the histone stem-loop
   sequences according to at least one of specific formulae (I) or (Ia) to (Ih) or (II) or (Ila) to (Ih) or
   with a naturally occurring histone stem-loop sequence.
   In a preferred embodiment, the histone stem loop sequence does not contain the loop sequence          5'
20 UUUC-3'. More specifically, the histone stem loop does not contain the stem sequence                  5'
   GGCUCU-3'      and/or the stem2 sequence       5'-AGAGCC-3', respectively. In another preferred
   embodiment, the stem loop sequence does not contain the loop sequence          5'-CCUGCCC-3' or the
   loop sequence  5'-UGAAU-3'. More specifically, the stem loop does not contain the stem sequence
   .5'-CCUGAGC-3' or does not contain the stem sequence       5'-ACCUUUCUCCA-3' and/or the stem2
25 sequence  5'-GCUCAGG-3' or 5'-UGGAGAAAGGU-3', respectively. Also, as far as the invention is
   not limited to histone stem loop sequences specifically, stem loop sequences are preferably not
   derived from a mammalian insulin receptor 3'-untranslated region. Also, preferably, the inventive
   nucleic acid may not contain histone stem loop processing signals, in particular not those derived
   from mouse histone gene H2A614 gene (H2kA614).
30
   The inventive nucleic acid sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention may
   optionally comprise or code for a poly(A) sequence. When present, such a poly(A) sequence
   comprises a sequence of about 25 to about 400 adenosine nucleotides, preferably a sequence of
35 about 30 or, more preferably, of about 50 to about 400 adenosine nucleotides, more preferably a
   sequence of about 50 to about 300 adenosine nucleotides, even more preferably a sequence of

                                                     30
   about 50 to about 250 adenosine nucleotides, most preferably a sequence of about 60 to about 250
   adenosine nucleotides. In this context the term "about" refers to a deviation of  10% of the
   value(s) it is attached to. Accordingly, the poly(A) sequence contains at least 25 or more than 25 ,
   more preferably, at least 30, more preferably at least 50 adenosine nucleotides. Therefore, such a
 5 poly (A) sequence       does typically not contain less than 20 adenosine nucleotides. More
   particularly, it does not contain 10 and/or less than 10 adenosine nucleotides.
   Preferably, the nucleic acid according of the present invention does not contain one or two or at
   least one or all but one or all of the components of the group consisting of: a sequence encoding a
10 ribozyme (preferably a self-splicing ribozyme), a viral nucleic acid sequence, a histone stem-loop
   processing signal, in particular a histone-stem loop processing sequence derived from mouse
   histone H2A614 gene, a Neo gene, an inactivated promoter sequence and an inactivated enhancer
   sequence. Even more preferably, the nucleic acid according to the invention does not contain a
   ribozyme, preferably a self-splicing ribozyme, and one of the group consisting of: a Neo gene, an
15 inactivated promoter sequence, an inactivated enhancer sequence, a histone stem-loop processing
   signal, in particular a histone-stem loop processing sequence derived from mouse histone
   H2A614 gene. Accordingly, the nucleic acid may in a preferred mode neither contain a ribozyme,
   preferably a self-splicing ribozyme, nor a Neo gene or, alternatively, neither a ribozyme,
   preferably a self-splicing ribozyme, nor any resistance gene (e.g. usually applied for selection). In
20 another preferred mode, the nucleic acid of the invention may neither contain a ribozyme,
   preferably a self-splicing ribozyme nor a histone stem-loop processing signal, in particular a
   histone-stem loop processing sequence derived from mouse histone H2A614 gene
   Alternatively, according to the first aspect of the present invention, the inventive nucleic
25 sequence optionally comprises a polyadenylation signal which is defined herein as a signal which
   conveys polyadenylation to a (transcribed) mRNA by specific protein factors (e.g. cleavage and
   polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF), cleavage stimulation factor (CstF), cleavage factors I
   and II (CF I and CF II), poly(A) polymerase (PAP)). In this context a consensus polyadenylation
   signal is preferred comprising the NN(U/T)ANA          consensus sequence. In a particular preferred
30 aspect the polyadenylation signal comprises one of the following sequences: AA(U/T)AAA or
   A(U/T)(U/T)AAA        (wherein uridine is usually present in RNA and thymidine is usually present
   in DNA). In some embodiments, the polyadenylation signal used in the inventive nucleic acid
   does not correspond to the Us snRNA, U5, the polyadenylation processing signal from human
   gene G-CSF, or the SV40             polyadenylation   signal  sequences. In particular, the above
35 polyadenylation signals are not combined with any antibiotics resistance gene (or any other
   reporter, marker or selection gene), in particular not with the resistance neo gene (neomycin

                                                    31
   phosphotransferase) (as the gene of the coding region according to element (a) of the inventive
   nucleic acid in such an inventive nucleic acid. And any of the above polyadenylation signals are
   preferably not combined with the histone stem loop or the histone stem loop processing signal
   from mouse histone gene H2A614 in an inventive nucleic acid.
 5
   The inventive nucleic acid sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention may
   furthermore encode a protein or a peptide, which comprises a tumour antigen or a fragment,
   variant or derivative thereof
10
   Tumour antigens are preferably located on the surface of the (tumour) cell characterizing a
   mammalian, in particular human tumour (in e.g. systemic or solid tumour diseases). Tumour
   antigens may also be selected from proteins, which are overexpressed in tumour cells compared
   to a normal cell. Furthermore, tumour antigens also includes antigens expressed in cells which
15 are (were) not themselves (or originally not themselves) degenerated but are associated with the
   supposed tumour. Antigens which are connected with tumour-supplying vessels or (re)formation
   thereof, in particular those antigens which are associated with neovascularization, e.g. growth
   factors, such as VEGF, bFGF etc., are also included herein. Antigens connected with a tumour
   furthermore include antigens from cells or tissues, typically embedding the tumour. Further,
20 some substances (usually proteins or peptides) are expressed in patients suffering (knowingly or
   not-knowingly) from a cancer disease and they occur in increased concentrations in the body
   fluids of said patients. These substances are also referred to as "tumour antigens", however they
   are not antigens in the stringent meaning of an immune response inducing substance. The class
   of tumour antigens can be divided further into tumour-specific antigens (TSAs) and tumour
25 associated-antigens (TAAs). TSAs can only be presented by tumour cells and never by normal
   "healthy" cells. They typically result from a tumour specific mutation. TAAs, which are more
   common, are usually presented by both tumour and healthy cells. These antigens are recognized
   and the antigen-presenting cell can be destroyed by cytotoxic T cells. Additionally, tumour
   antigens can also occur on the surface of the tumour in the form of, e.g., a mutated receptor. In
30 this case, they can be recognized by antibodies.
   Further, tumour associated antigens may be classified as tissue-specific antigens, also called
   melanocyte-specific antigens, cancer-testis antigens and tumour-specific antigens. Cancer-testis
   antigens are typically understood to be peptides or proteins of germ-line associated genes which
35 may be activated in a wide variety of tumours. Human cancer-testis antigens may be further
   subdivided into antigens which are encoded on the X chromosome, so-called CT-X antigens, and

                                                   32
   those antigens which are not encoded on the X chromosome, the so-called (non-X CT antigens).
   Cancer-testis antigens which are encoded on the X-chromosome comprises, for example, the
   family of melanoma antigen genes, the so-called MAGE-family. The genes of the MAGE-family
   may be characterised by a shared MAGE homology domain (MHD). Each of these antigens, i.e.
 5 melanocyte-specific antigens, cancer-testis antigens and tumour-specific antigens, may elicit
   autologous cellular and humoral immune response. Accordingly, the tumour antigen encoded by
   the inventive nucleic acid sequence is preferably a melanocyte-specific antigen, a cancer-testis
   antigen or a tumour-specific antigens, preferably it may be a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT
   antigens, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a
10 tumour-specific antigen , more preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT
   antigen or a tumour-specific antigen.
   Particular preferred tumour antigens are selected from the list consisting of 5T4, 707-AP, 9D7,
   AFP, AlbZIP HPG1, alpha-.5-beta-1-integrin, alpha-5-beta-6-integrin, alpha-actinin-4/m, alpha
15 methylacyl-coenzyme A racemase, ART-4, ARTC1/m, B7H4, BAGE-1, BCL-2, bcr/abl, beta
   catenin/m, BING-4, BRCAi/m, BRCA2/m, CA 15-3/CA 27-29, CA 19-9, CA72-4, CA125,
   calreticulin, CAMEL, CASP-8/m, cathepsin B, cathepsin L, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CDE3o,
   CD33, CD4, CD.52, CD55, CD.56, CD8o, CDC27/m, CDK4/m, CDKN2A/m, CEA, CLCA2,
   CML28, CML66, COA-i/m, coactosin-like protein, collage XXIII, COX-2, CT-9/BRD6, Cten,
20 cyclin Bi, cyclin Di, cyp-B, CYPBi, DAM-i,          DAM-6, DEK-CAN, EFTUD2/m, EGFR,
   ELF2/m, EMMPRIN, EpCam, EphA2, EphA3, ErbB3, ETV6-AML1, EZH2, FGF-5, FN, Frau
    1, G25o, GAGE-i,      GAGE-2, GAGE-3, GAGE-4, GAGE-5, GAGE-6, GAGE7b, GAGE-8,
   GDEP, GnT-V, gpioo, GPC3, GPNMB/m, HAGE, HAST-2, hepsin, Her2/neu, HERV-K
   MEL, HLA-A*O201-R17I, HLA-A11/m, HLA-A2/m, HNE, homeobox NKX3.1, HOM-TES
25  14/SCP-1, HOM-TES-85, HPV-E6, HPV-E7, HSP70-2M, HST-2, hTERT, iCE, IGF-iR, IL
    13Ra2, IL-2R, IL-5, immature laminin receptor, kallikrein-2, kallikrein-4, Ki67, KIAA0205,
   KIAA0205/m, KK-LC-i, K-Ras/m, LAGE-A1, LDLR-FUT, MAGE-A1, MAGE-A2, MAGE
   A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A6, MAGE-A9, MAGE-A1o, MAGE-A12, MAGE-Bi, MAGE-B2,
   MAGE-B3, MAGE-B4, MAGE-B5, MAGE-B6, MAGE-Bio, MAGE-B16, MAGE-B17, MAGE
30 Ci, MAGE-C2, MAGE-C3,            MAGE-Di, MAGE-D2, MAGE-D4, MAGE-E1, MAGE-E2,
   MAGE-Fi, MAGE-Hi, MAGEL2, mammaglobin A, MART-1/melan-A, MART-2, MART
   2/m, matrix protein 22, MCiR, M-CSF, ME1/m, mesothelin, MG50/PXDN, MMPI1, MN/CA
   IX-antigen, MRP-3, MUC-1, MUC-2, MUM-1/m, MUM-2/m, MUM-3/m, myosin class I/m,
   NA88-A,      N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase-V,  Neo-PAP,    Neo-PAP/m,      NFYC/m,    NGEP,
35 NMP22,      NPM/ALK, N-Ras/m, NSE, NY-ESO-B,             NY-ESO-i,     OAi,   OFA-iLRP,   OGT,
   OGT/m, OS-9, OS-9/m, osteocalcin, osteopontin, p15, p190 minor bcr-abl, p53, p53/m, PAGE-

                                                  33
   4, PAI-i, PAI-2, PAP, PART-i, PATE, PDEF, Pim-1-Kinase, Pin-1, Pml/PARalpha, POTE,
   PRAME, PRDX5/m, prostein, proteinase-3, PSA, PSCA, PSGR, PSM, PSMA, PTPRK/m,
   RAGE-i, RBAF600/m, RHAMM/CD168, RUi, RU2, S-100, SAGE, SART-i, SART-2, SART
   3, SCC, SIRT2/m, Sp17, SSX-i, SSX-2/HOM-MEL-40, SSX-4, STAMP-i, STEAP-1, survivin,
 5 survivin-2B,   SYT-SSX-i,    SYT-SSX-2,     TA-90,   TAG-72,     TARP, TEL-AMLi,         TGFbeta,
   TGFbetaRII, TGM-4, TPI/m, TRAG-3, TRG, TRP-i, TRP-2/6b, TRP/INT2, TRP-p8,
   tyrosinase, UPA, VEGFRi, VEGFR-2/FLK-1, and WTI. Such tumour antigens preferably may
   be selected from the group consisting of p53, CA125, EGFR, Her2/neu, hTERT, PAP, MAGE
   Ai, MAGE-A3,       Mesothelin, MUC-i, GPioo, MART-i,            Tyrosinase, PSA, PSCA, PSMA,
10 STEAP-i, VEGF, VEGFRi, VEGFR2, Ras, CEA or WTI, and more preferably from PAP,
   MAGE-A3, WTI, and MUC-1. Such tumour antigens preferably may be selected from the group
   consisting of MAGE-Ai (e.g. MAGE-Ai according to accession number M77481), MAGE-A2,
   MAGE-A3, MAGE-A6 (e.g. MAGE-A6 according to accession number NMo005363), MAGE
   Ci, MAGE-C2, melan-A (e.g. melan-A according to accession number NMoo.55i i), GPioo (e.g.
15 GPioo    according to accession   number M77348),       tyrosinase (e.g. tyrosinase according  to
   accession   number   NM_000372),    surviving  (e.g. survivin    according  to  accession number
   AF077350), CEA (e.g. CEA according to accession number NM_004363), Her-2/neu (e.g. Her
   2/neu according to accession number M 11730), WTI (e.g. WTI according to accession number
   NM_000378), PRAME (e.g. PRAME according to accession number NM006115), EGFRI
20 (epidermal growth factor receptor 1) (e.g. EGFRI (epidermal growth factor receptor 1) according
   to accession number AF288738), MUCi, mucin-i (e.g. mucin-i according to accession number
   NM_0024.56), SEC6IG (e.g. SEC6IG according to accession number NM_014302), hTERT (e.g.
   hTERT     accession number    NM_198253),     5T4   (e.g.  5T4   according  to  accession number
   NM_006670), TRP-2 (e.g. TRP-2 according to accession number NM_001922), STEAPi, PCA,
25 PSA, PSMA, etc.
   Furthermore tumour antigens also may encompass idiotypic antigens associated with a cancer or
   tumour disease, particularly lymphoma or a lymphoma associated disease, wherein said idiotypic
   antigen is an immunoglobulin idiotype of a lymphoid blood cell or a T cell receptor idiotype of a
30 lymphoid blood cell.
   Tumour antigenic proteins for the treatment of cancer or tumour diseases, are typically proteins
   of mammalian origin, preferably of human origin. Their selection for treatment of the subject
   depends on the tumour type to be treated and the expression profile of the individual tumour. A
35 human suffering from prostate cancer, is e.g. preferably treated by a tumour antigen, which is

                                                     34
   typically expressed (or overexpressed) in prostate carcinoma or specifically overexpressed in the
   subject to be treated, e.g. any of PSMA, PSCA, and/or PSA.
   The coding region of the inventive nucleic acid according to the first aspect of the present
 5 invention may occur as a mono-, di-, or even multicistronic nucleic acid, i.e. a nucleic acid which
   carries the coding sequences of one, two or more proteins or peptides. Such coding sequences in
   di-, or even multicistronic nucleic acids may be separated by at least one internal ribosome entry
   site (IRES) sequence, e.g. as described herein or by signal peptides which induce the cleavage of
   the resulting polypeptide which comprises several proteins or peptides.
10
   According to the first aspect of the present invention, the inventive nucleic acid sequence
   comprises a coding region, encoding a peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or a
   fragment, variant or derivative thereof     Preferably, the encoded tumour antigen is no histone
   protein. In the context of the present invention such a histone protein is typically a strongly
15 alkaline protein found in eukaryotic cell nuclei, which package and order the DNA into structural
   units called nucleosomes. Histone proteins are the chief protein components of chromatin, act as
   spools around which DNA winds, and play a role in gene regulation. Without histones, the
   unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long (a length to width ratio of more than 10
   million to one in human DNA). For example, each human cell has about 1.8 meters of DNA, but
20 wound on the histones it has about 90 millimeters of chromatin, which, when duplicated and
   condensed during mitosis, result in about 120 micrometers of chromosomes. More preferably, in
   the context of the present invention such a histone protein is typically defined as a highly
   conserved protein selected from one of the following five major classes of histones: Hi /H5, H2A,
   H2B, H3, and H4", preferably selected from mammalian histone, more preferably from human
25 histones or histone proteins. Such histones or histone proteins are typically organised into two
   super-classes defined as core histones, comprising histones H2A, H2B, H3 and H4, and linker
   histones, comprising histones HI and H5.
   In this context, linker histones, preferably excluded from the scope of protection of the pending
30 invention, preferably mammalian linker histones, more preferably human linker histones, are
   typically selected from H1, including HiF, particularly including HiFo, HiFNT, HiFOO,
   HiFX, and HiHi, particularly including HISTiHiA, HISTiHiB, HISTiHiC, HISTiHiD,
   HISTiHiE, HISTiHiT; and

                                                      35
   Furthermore, core histones, preferably excluded from the scope of protection of the pending
   invention, preferably mammalian core histones, more preferably human core histones, are
   typically   selected from H2A, including H2AF, particularly including H2AFB1,               H2AFB2,
   H2AFB3, H2AFJ, H2AFV, H2AFX, H2AFY, H2AFY2, H2AFZ, and H2A1,                             particularly
 5 including      HIST1H2AA,       HIST1H2AB,          HIST1H2AC,        HIST1H2AD,       HIST1H2AE,
   HIST1H2AG,        HIST1H2AI,    HIST1H2AJ, HIST1H2AK,             HIST1H2AL, HIST1H2AM,            and
   H2A2, particularly including HIST2H2AA3, HIST2H2AC; H2B, including H2BF, particularly
   including H2BFM, H2BFO, H2BFS, H2BFWT H2B1, particularly including HIST1H2BA,
   HIST1H2BB,         HIST1H2BC,     HIST1H2BD,         HIST1H2BE,        HIST1H2BF,      HIST1H2BG,
10 HIST1H2BH,         HIST1H2BI,     HIST1H2BJ,         HIST1H2BK,       HIST1H2BL,       HIST1H2BM,
   HIST1H2BN, HIST1H2BO, and H2B2, particularly including HIST2H2BE; H3, including
   HSA 1, particularly including HIST1HsA, HIST1 HsB, HIST1H3C, HIST1HsD, HIST1HsE,
   HISTiH3F, HISTiH3G, HIST1H3H, HISTiH3I, HISTiH3J, and HSA2, particularly including
   HIST2H3C, and HSA3, particularly including HIST3H3; H4, including H41, particularly
15 including     HIST1H4A,     HIST1H4B,       HIST1H4C,      HIST1H4D,      HIST1H4E,      HIST1H4F,
   HIST1H4G,        HIST1H4H,     HIST1H41,       HIST1H4J,     HIST1H4K,     HIST1H4L,      and    H44,
   particularly including HIST4H4, and H5.
   According to the first aspect of the present invention, the inventive nucleic acid sequence
20 comprises a coding region, encoding a peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or a
   fragment, variant or derivative thereof      Preferably, the encoded tumour antigen is no reporter
   protein (e.g. Luciferase, Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein
   (EGFP), 1-Galactosidase) and no marker or selection protein (e.g. alpha-Globin, Galactokinase
   and Xanthine:guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (GPT)). Preferably, the nucleic acid sequence
25 of the invention does not contain a (bacterial) antibiotics resistance gene, in particular not a neo
   gene sequence (Neomycin resistance gene) or CAT gene sequence (chloramphenicol acetyl
   transferase, chloramphenicol resistance gene).
   The inventive nucleic acid as define above, comprises or codes for a) a coding region, encoding a
30 peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof;
   b) at least one histone stem-loop, and c) a poly(A) sequence or polyadenylation signal; preferably
   for increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein, wherein the encoded peptide or
   protein is preferably no histone protein, no reporter protein and/or no marker or selection
   protein, as defined above. The elements b) to c) of the inventive nucleic acid may occur in the
35 inventive nucleic acid in any order, i.e. the elements a), b) and c) may occur in the order a), b) and

                                                     36
   c) or a), c) and b) from 5' to 3' direction in the inventive nucleic acid sequence, wherein further
   elements as described herein, may also be contained, such as a 5'-CAP structure, a poly(C)
   sequence, stabilization sequences, IRES sequences, etc.        Each of the elements a) to c) of the
   inventive nucleic acid, particularly a) in di- or multicistronic constructs and/or each of the
 5 elements b) and c), more preferably element b) may also be repeated at least once, preferably
   twice or more in the inventive nucleic acid. As an example, the inventive nucleic acid may show
   its sequence elements a), b) and optionally c) in e.g. the following order:
   5' - coding region - histone stem-loop - poly(A) sequence - 3'; or
   5' - coding region - histone stem-loop - polyadenylation signal - 3'; or
10 5' - coding region - poly(A) sequence - histone stem-loop -3'; or
   5' - coding region - polyadenylation signal- histone stem-loop - 3'; or
   5' - coding region - coding region - histone stem-loop -     polyadenylation signal - 3'; or
   5' - coding region - histone stem-loop - histone stem-loop - poly(A) sequence - 3'; or
15 5' - coding region - histone stem-loop - histone stem-loop - polyadenylation signal- 3';etc.
   In this context it is particularly preferred that the inventive nucleic acid sequence comprises or
   codes for a) a coding region, encoding a peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or
   fragment, variant or derivative thereof; b) at least one histone stem-loop, and c) a poly(A)
20 sequence or polyadenylation sequence; preferably for increasing the expression level of said
   encoded peptide or protein, wherein the encoded protein is preferably no histone protein, no
   reporter protein (e.g. Luciferase, GFP, EGFP, f-Galactosidase, particularly EGFP) and/or no
   marker     or  selection   protein   (e.g. alpha-Globin,     Galactokinase  and   Xanthine:Guanine
   phosphoribosyl transferase (GPT)).
25
   In a further preferred embodiment of the first aspect the inventive nucleic acid sequence as
   defined herein may also occur in the form of a modified nucleic acid.
   In this context, the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein may be modified to provide
30 a "stabilized nucleic acid", preferably a stabilized RNA, more preferably an RNA that is
   essentially resistant to in vivo degradation (e.g. by an exo- or endo-nuclease). A stabilized nucleic
   acid may e.g. be obtained by modification of the G/C content of the coding region of the
   inventive nucleic acid sequence, by introduction of nucleotide analogues (e.g. nucleotides with
   backbone modifications, sugar modifications or base modifications) or by introduction of

                                                      37
   stabilization sequences in the 3'- and/or 5'- untranslated region of the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence.
   As mentioned above, the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein may contain nucleotide
 5 analogues/modifications e.g. backbone modifications, sugar modifications or base modifications.
   A backbone modification in connection with the present invention is a modification in which
   phosphates of the backbone of the nucleotides contained in inventive nucleic acid sequence as
   defined herein are chemically modified. A sugar modification in connection with the present
   invention is a chemical modification of the sugar of the nucleotides of the inventive nucleic acid
10 sequence as defined herein. Furthermore, a base modification in connection with the present
   invention is a chemical modification of the base moiety of the nucleotides of the nucleic acid
   molecule of the inventive nucleic acid sequence. In this context nucleotide analogues or
   modifications are preferably selected from nucleotide analogues which are applicable for
   transcription and/or translation.
15
   In a particular preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention the herein
   defined    nucleotide   analogues/modifications     are  selected   from   base  modifications   which
   additionally increase the expression of the encoded protein and which are preferably selected
   from    2-amino-6-chloropurineriboside-5'-triphosphate,        2-aminoadenosine-5'-triphosphate,     2
20 thiocytidine-5'-triphosphate,    2-thiouridine-5'-triphosphate,     4-thiouridine-5'-triphosphate,   5
   aminoallylcytidine-5'-triphosphate,       5-aminoallyluridine-5'-triphosphate,     5-bromocytidine-5'
   triphosphate, 5-bromouridine-5'-triphosphate,       5-iodocytidine-5'-triphosphate, 5-iodouridine-5'
   triphosphate, 5-methylcytidine-5'-triphosphate, 5-methyluridine-5'-triphosphate,         6-azacytidine
   5'-triphosphate,      6-azauridine-5'-triphosphate,     6-chloropurineriboside-5'-triphosphate,      7
25 deazaadenosine-5'-triphosphate,           7-deazaguanosine-5'-triphosphate,          8-azaadenosine-5'
   triphosphate,     8-azidoadenosine-5'-triphosphate,     benzimidazole-riboside-5'-triphosphate,    N1
   methyladenosine-5'-triphosphate, Ni-methylguanosine-5'-triphosphate, N6-methyladenosine-5'
   triphosphate,       06-methylguanosine-5'-triphosphate,          pseudouridine-5'-triphosphate,      or
   puromycin-5'-triphosphate,      xanthosine-5'-triphosphate.     Particular  preference    is given   to
30 nucleotides for base modifications        selected from the group of base-modified nucleotides
   consisting      of    5-methylcytidine-5'-triphosphate,       7-deazaguanosine-5'-triphosphate,      5
   bromocytidine-5'-triphosphate, and pseudouridine-5'-triphosphate.
   According to a further embodiment, the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein can
35 contain a lipid modification. Such a lipid-modified nucleic acid typically comprises a nucleic acid
   as defined herein. Such a lipid-modified nucleic acid molecule of the inventive nucleic acid

                                                     38
   sequence as defined herein typically further comprises at least one linker covalently linked with
   that nucleic acid molecule, and at least one lipid covalently linked with the respective linker.
   Alternatively, the lipid-modified nucleic acid molecule comprises at least one nucleic acid
   molecule as defined herein and at least one (bifunctional) lipid covalently linked (without a linker)
 5 with that nucleic acid molecule. According to a third alternative, the lipid-modified nucleic acid
   molecule comprises a nucleic acid molecule as defined herein, at least one linker covalently linked
   with that nucleic acid molecule, and at least one lipid covalently linked with the respective linker,
   and also at least one (bifunctional) lipid covalently linked (without a linker) with that nucleic acid
   molecule. In this context it is particularly preferred that the lipid modification is present at the
10 terminal ends of a linear inventive nucleic acid sequence.
   According to another preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, particularly if provided as an (m)RNA, can therefore be
   stabilized against degradation by RNases by the addition of a so-called "5' CAP" structure.
15
   According to a further preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein can be modified by a sequence of at least 10 cytidines,
   preferably at least 20 cytidines, more preferably at least 30 cytidines (so-called "poly(C)
   sequence").   Particularly, the inventive nucleic acid sequence may contain or code for a poly(C)
20 sequence of typically about 10 to 200 cytidine nucleotides, preferably about 10 to 100 cytidine
   nucleotides, more preferably about 10 to 70 cytidine nucleotides or even more preferably about
   20 to 50 or even 20 to 30 cytidine nucleotides. This poly(C) sequence is preferably located 3' of
   the coding region comprised in the inventive nucleic acid according to the first aspect of the
   present invention.
25
   In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, the G/C content of the coding
   region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or a fragment,
   variant or derivative thereof of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, is modified,
   particularly increased, compared to the G/C content of its particular wild type coding region, i.e.
30 the unmodified coding region. The encoded amino acid sequence of the coding region is
   preferably not modified compared to the coded amino acid sequence of the particular wild type
   coding region.
   The modification of the G/C-content of the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid sequence
35 as defined herein is based on the fact that the sequence of any mRNA region to be translated is
   important for efficient translation of that mRNA. Thus, the composition and the sequence of

                                                  39
   various nucleotides are important. In particular, mRNA sequences having an increased G
   (guanosine)/C (cytosine) content are more stable than mRNA sequences having an increased A
   (adenosine)/U (uracil) content. According to the invention, the codons of the coding region are
   therefore varied compared to its wild type coding region, while retaining the translated amino
 5 acid sequence, such that they include an increased amount of G/C nucleotides. In respect to the
   fact that several codons code for one and the same amino acid (so-called degeneration of the
   genetic code), the most favourable codons for the stability can be determined (so-called
   alternative codon usage).
10 Depending on the amino acid to be encoded by the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence as defined herein, there are various possibilities for modification of the nucleic acid
   sequence, e.g. the coding region, compared to its wild type coding region. In the case of amino
   acids which are encoded by codons which contain exclusively G or C nucleotides, no modification
   of the codon is necessary. Thus, the codons for Pro (CCC or CCG), Arg (CGC or CGG), Ala
15 (GCC or GCG) and Gly (GGC or GGG) require no modification, since no A or U is present.
   In contrast, codons which contain A and/or U nucleotides can be modified by substitution of
   other codons which code for the same amino acids but contain no A and/or U. Examples of these
   are:
20
   the codons for Pro can be modified from CCU or CCA to CCC or CCG;
   the codons for Arg can be modified from CGU or CGA or AGA or AGG to CGC or CGG;
   the codons for Ala can be modified from GCU or GCA to GCC or GCG;
   the codons for Gly can be modified from GGU or GGA to GGC or GGG.
25
   In other cases, although A or U nucleotides cannot be eliminated from the codons, it is however
   possible to decrease the A and U content by using codons which contain a lower content of A
   and/or U nucleotides. Examples of these are:
30 the codons for Phe can be modified from UUU to UUC;
   the codons for Leu can be modified from UUA, UUG, CUU or CUA to CUC or CUG;
   the codons for Ser can be modified from UCU or UCA or AGU to UCC, UCG or AGC;
   the codon for Tyr can be modified from UAU to UAC;
   the codon for Cys can be modified from UGU to UGC;
35 the codon for His can be modified from CAU to CAC;
   the codon for Gln can be modified from CAA to CAG;

                                                     40
   the codons for Ile can be modified from AUU or AUA to AUC;
   the codons for Thr can be modified from ACU or ACA to ACC or ACG;
   the codon for Asn can be modified from AAU to AAC;
   the codon for Lys can be modified from AAA to AAG;
 5 the codons for Val can be modified from GUU or GUA to GUC or GUG;
   the codon for Asp can be modified from GAU to GAC;
   the codon for Glu can be modified from GAA to GAG;
   the stop codon UAA can be modified to UAG or UGA.
10 In the case of the codons for Met (AUG) and Trp (UGG), on the other hand, there is no
   possibility of sequence modification.
   The substitutions listed above can be used either individually or in all possible combinations to
   increase the G/C content of the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined
15 herein, compared to its particular wild type coding region (i.e. the original sequence). Thus, for
   example, all codons for Thr occurring in the wild type sequence can be modified to ACC (or
   ACG).
   In the above context, mRNA codons are shown. Therefore uridine present in an mRNA may also
20 be present as thymidine in the respective DNA coding for the particular mRNA.
   Preferably, the G/C content of the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as
   defined herein is increased by at least 7%, more preferably by at least 15%, particularly preferably
   by at least 20%, compared to the G/C content of the wild type coding region. According to a
25 specific embodiment at least 5%, 10%, 20%,     so%, 40%, 50%, 60%, more preferably at least 70 %,
   even more preferably at least 80% and most preferably at least 90%, 95% or even 100% of the
   substitutable codons in the coding region encoding at least one peptide or protein which
   comprises a tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof are substituted, thereby
   increasing the G/C content of said coding region.
30
   In this context, it is particularly preferable to increase the G/C content of the coding region of
   the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, to the maximum (i.e.            100% of the
   substitutable codons), compared to the wild type coding region.
35 According to the invention, a further preferred modification of the coding region encoding at
   least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour antigen or a fragment, variant or

                                                      41
   derivative thereof of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, is based on the finding
   that the translation efficiency is also determined by a different frequency in the occurrence of
   tRNAs in cells. Thus, if so-called "rare codons" are present in the coding region of the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, to an increased extent, the corresponding modified
 5 nucleic acid sequence is translated to a significantly poorer degree than in the case where codons
   coding for relatively "frequent" tRNAs are present.
   In this context the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid sequence is preferably modified
   compared to the corresponding wild type coding region such that at least one codon of the wild
10 type sequence which codes for a tRNA which is relatively rare in the cell is exchanged for a
   codon which codes for a tRNA which is relatively frequent in the cell and carries the same amino
   acid as the relatively rare tRNA. By this modification, the coding region of the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence as defined herein, is modified such that codons for which frequently occurring
   tRNAs are available are inserted. In other words, according to the invention, by this modification
15 all codons of the wild type coding region which code for a tRNA which is relatively rare in the
   cell can in each case be exchanged for a codon which codes for a tRNA which is relatively
   frequent in the cell and which, in each case, carries the same amino acid as the relatively rare
   tRNA.
20 Which tRNAs occur relatively frequently in the cell and which, in contrast, occur relatively
   rarely is known to a person skilled in the art; cf e.g. Akashi, Curr. Opin. Genet. Dev. 2001, 11(6):
   660-666. The codons which use for the particular amino acid the tRNA which occurs the most
   frequently, e.g. the Gly codon, which uses the tRNA which occurs the most frequently in the
   (human) cell, are particularly preferred.
25
   According to the invention, it is particularly preferable to link the sequential G/C content which
   is increased, in particular maximized, in the coding region of the inventive nucleic acid sequence
   as defined herein, with the "frequent" codons without modifying the amino acid sequence of the
   peptide or protein encoded by the coding region of the nucleic acid sequence. This preferred
30 embodiment allows provision of a particularly efficiently translated and stabilized (modified)
   inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein.
   According to another preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, preferably has additionally at least one 5' and/or 3'
35 stabilizing sequence. These stabilizing sequences in the 5' and/or 3' untranslated regions have
   the effect of increasing the half-life of the nucleic acid, particularly of the mRNA in the cytosol.

                                                      42
   These stabilizing sequences can have 100% sequence identity to naturally occurring sequences
   which occur in viruses, bacteria and eukaryotes, but can also be partly or completely synthetic.
   The untranslated sequences (UTR) of the (alpha-)globin gene, e.g. from Homo sapiens or Xenopus
   laevis may be mentioned as an example of stabilizing sequences which can be used in the present
 5 invention for a stabilized nucleic acid. Another example of a stabilizing sequence has the general
   formula (C/U)CCANxCCC(U/A)PyxUC(C/U)CC                (SEQ ID NO: 55), which is contained in the 3'
   UTRs of the very stable RNAs which code for (alpha-)globin, type(I)-collagen, 15-lipoxygenase
   or for tyrosine hydroxylase (cf Holcik et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1997, 94: 2410 to 2414).
   Such stabilizing sequences can of course be used individually or in combination with one another
10 and also in combination with other stabilizing sequences known to a person skilled in the art. In
   this context it is particularly preferred that the 3' UTR sequence of the alpha globin gene is
   located 3' of the coding region encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises a tumour
   antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof comprised in the inventive nucleic acid
   sequence according to the first aspect of the present invention.
15
   Substitutions, additions or eliminations of bases are preferably carried out with the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, using a DNA matrix for preparation of the nucleic acid
   sequence by techniques of the well-known site directed mutagenesis or with an oligonucleotide
   ligation strategy (see e.g. Maniatis et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
20 Harbor Laboratory Press, 3rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 2001).
   Any of the above modifications may be applied to the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined
   herein and further to any nucleic acid as used in the context of the present invention and may be,
   if suitable or necessary, be combined with each other in any combination, provided, these
25 combinations of modifications do not interfere with each other in the respective nucleic acid. A
   person skilled in the art will be able to take his choice accordingly.
   Nucleic acid sequences used according to the present invention as defined herein may be prepared
   using any method known in the art, including synthetic methods such as e.g. solid phase
30 synthesis, as well as in vitro methods, such as in vitro transcription reactions or in vivo reactions,
   such as in vivo propagation of DNA plasmids in bacteria.
   In such a process, for preparation of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein,
   especially if the nucleic acid is in the form of an mRNA, a corresponding DNA molecule may be
35 transcribed in vitro. This DNA matrix preferably comprises a suitable promoter, e.g. a T7 or SPG

                                                    43
   promoter, for in vitro transcription, which is followed by the desired nucleotide sequence for the
   nucleic acid molecule, e.g. mRNA, to be prepared and a termination signal for in vitro
   transcription. The DNA molecule, which forms the matrix of the at least one RNA of interest,
   may be prepared by fermentative proliferation and subsequent isolation as part of a plasmid
 5 which can be replicated in bacteria. Plasmids which may be mentioned as suitable for the present
   invention are e.g. the plasmids pT7Ts (GenBank accession number U26404; Lai et al,
   Development 1995, 121: 2349 to 2360), pGEM@ series, e.g. pGEM@-1 (GenBank accession
   number X65300; from Promega) and pSP64 (GenBank accession number X65327); cf also Mezei
   and Storts, Purification of PCR Products, in: Griffin and Griffin (ed.), PCR Technology: Current
10 Innovation, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2001.
   The inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein as well as proteins or peptides as encoded
   by this nucleic acid sequence may comprise fragments or variants of those sequences.           Such
   fragments or variants may typically comprise a sequence having a sequence identity with one of
15 the above mentioned nucleic acids, or with one of the proteins or peptides or sequences, if
   encoded by the inventive nucleic acid sequence, of at least 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
   preferably at least 70%, more preferably at least 80%, equally more preferably at least 85%, even
   more preferably at least 90% and most preferably at least 95% or even 97%, 98% or 99%, to the
   entire wild type sequence, either on nucleic acid level or on amino acid level.
20
   "Fragments" of proteins or peptides in the context of the present invention (e.g. as encoded by
   the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein) may comprise a sequence of a protein or
   peptide as defined herein, which is, with regard to its amino acid sequence (or its encoded nucleic
   acid   molecule),  N-terminally,   C-terminally    and/or   intrasequentially   truncated/shortened
25 compared to the amino acid sequence of the original (native) protein (or its encoded nucleic acid
   molecule). Such truncation may thus occur either on the amino acid level or correspondingly on
   the nucleic acid level. A sequence identity with respect to such a fragment as defined herein may
   therefore preferably refer to the entire protein or peptide as defined herein or to the entire
   (coding) nucleic acid molecule of such a protein or peptide. Likewise, "fragments" of nucleic acids
30 in the context of the present invention may comprise a sequence of a nucleic acid as defined
   herein, which is, with regard to its nucleic acid molecule 5'-, 3'- and/or intrasequentially
   truncated/shortened compared to the nucleic acid molecule of the original (native) nucleic acid
   molecule. A sequence identity with respect to such a fragment as defined herein may therefore
   preferably refer to the entire nucleic acid as defined herein and the preferred sequence identity
35 level typically is as indicated herein. Fragments have the same biological function or specific
   activity or at least retain an activity of the natural full length protein of at least 50%, more

                                                     44
   preferably at least 70%, even more preferably at least 90% (measured in an appropriate functional
   assay, e.g. an assay assessing the antigenic property by a appropriate assay system which e.g.
   measures an immunological reaction, e.g. expression and/or secretion of an appropriate cytokine
   (as an indicator of the immune reaction)) as compared to the full-length native peptide or protein,
 5 e.g. its specific antigenic or therapeutic property. Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the
   "fragment" is a portion of the full-length (naturally occurring) tumour antigenic protein, which
   exerts tumour antigenic properties on the immune system as indicated herein..
   Fragments of proteins or peptides in the context of the present invention (e.g. as encoded by the
10 inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein) may furthermore comprise a sequence of a
   protein or peptide as defined herein, which has a length of about 6 to about 20 or even more
   amino acids, e.g. fragments as processed and presented by MHC class I molecules, preferably
   having a length of about 8 to about 10 amino acids, e.g. 8, 9, or 10, (or even 6, 7, 11, or 12 amino
   acids), or fragments as processed and presented by MHC class II molecules, preferably having a
15 length of about 13 or more amino acids, e.g. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or even more amino
   acids, wherein these fragments may be selected from any part of the amino acid sequence. These
   fragments are typically recognized by T-cells in form of a complex consisting of the peptide
   fragment and an MHC molecule, i.e. the fragments are typically not recognized in their native
   form. Fragments of proteins or peptides as defined herein may comprise at least one epitope of
20 those proteins or peptides. Furthermore, also domains of a protein, like the extracellular domain,
   the intracellular domain or the transmembrane domain and shortened or truncated versions of a
   protein may be understood to comprise a fragment of a protein.
   Fragments of proteins or peptides as defined herein (e.g. as encoded by the inventive nucleic acid
25 sequence as defined herein) may also comprise epitopes of those proteins or peptides. T cell
   epitopes or parts of the proteins in the context of the present invention may comprise fragments
   preferably having a length of about 6 to about 20 or even more amino acids, e.g. fragments as
   processed and presented by MHC class I molecules, preferably having a length of about 8 to
   about 10 amino acids, e.g. 8, 9, or 10, (or even 11, or 12 amino acids), or fragments as processed
30 and presented by MHC class II molecules, preferably having a length of about 13 or more amino
   acids, e.g. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or even more amino acids, wherein these fragments may
   be selected from any part of the amino acid sequence. These fragments are typically recognized
   by T cells in form of a complex consisting of the peptide fragment and an MHC molecule, i.e. the
   fragments are typically not recognized in their native form.
35

                                                    45
   B cell epitopes are typically fragments located on the outer surface of (native) protein or peptide
   antigens as defined herein, preferably having 5 to 15 amino acids, more preferably having 5 to 12
   amino acids, even more preferably having 6 to 9 amino acids, which may be recognized by
   antibodies, i.e. in their native form.
 5
   Such epitopes of proteins or peptides may furthermore be selected from any of the herein
   mentioned variants of such proteins or peptides. In this context antigenic determinants can be
   conformational or discontinuous epitopes which are composed of segments of the proteins or
   peptides as defined herein that are discontinuous in the amino acid sequence of the proteins or
10 peptides as defined herein but are brought together in the three-dimensional structure or
   continuous or linear epitopes which are composed of a single polypeptide chain.
   "Variants" of proteins or peptides as defined in the context of the present invention may be
   encoded by the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein. Thereby, a protein or peptide
15 may be generated, having an amino acid sequence which differs from the original sequence in one
   or more (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or more) mutation(s), such as one or more substituted, inserted and/or
   deleted amino acid(s). The preferred level of sequence identity of "variants" in view of the full
   length natural protein sequence typically is as indicated herein. Preferably,       variants have the
   same biological function or specific activity or at least retain an activity of the natural full length
20 protein of at least 50%, more preferably at least 70%, even more preferably at least 90%
   (measured in an appropriate functional assay, e.g. by an assay assessing the immunological
   reaction towards the tumour antigen by the secretion and/or expression of one or more
   cytokines) compared to the full-length native peptide or protein, e.g. its specific antigenic
   property. Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the "variant" is a variant of a tumour antigenic
25 protein, which exerts tumour antigenic properties to the extent as indicated herein.
   "Variants" of proteins or peptides as defined in the context of the present invention (e.g. as
   encoded by a nucleic acid as defined herein) may comprise conservative amino acid substitution(s)
30 compared to their native, i.e. non-mutated physiological, sequence. Those amino acid sequences
   as well as their encoding nucleotide sequences in particular fall under the term variants as
   defined herein. Substitutions in which amino acids, which originate from the same class, are
   exchanged for one another are called conservative substitutions. In particular, these are amino
   acids having aliphatic side chains, positively or negatively charged side chains, aromatic groups
35 in the side chains or amino acids, the side chains of which can enter into hydrogen bridges, e.g.
   side chains which have a hydroxyl function. This means that e.g. an amino acid having a polar

                                                    46
   side chain is replaced by another amino acid having a likewise polar side chain, or, for example,
   an amino acid characterized by a hydrophobic side chain is substituted by another amino acid
   having a likewise hydrophobic side chain (e.g. serine (threonine) by threonine (serine) or leucine
   (isoleucine) by isoleucine (leucine)). Insertions and substitutions are possible, in particular, at
 5 those sequence positions which cause no modification to the three-dimensional structure or do
   not affect the binding region. Modifications to a three-dimensional structure by insertion(s) or
   deletion(s) can easily be determined e.g. using CD spectra (circular dichroism spectra) (Urry,
    1985, Absorption, Circular Dichroism and ORD of Polypeptides, in: Modern Physical Methods in
   Biochemistry, Neuberger et al. (ed.), Elsevier, Amsterdam).
10
   Furthermore, variants of proteins or peptides as defined herein, which may be encoded by the
   inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, may also comprise those sequences, wherein
   nucleotides of the nucleic acid are exchanged according to the degeneration of the genetic code,
   without leading to an alteration of the respective amino acid sequence of the protein or peptide,
15 i.e. the amino acid sequence or at least part thereof may not differ from the original sequence in
   one or more mutation(s) within the above meaning.
   In order to determine the percentage to which two sequences are identical, e.g. nucleic acid
   sequences or amino acid sequences as defined herein, preferably the amino acid sequences
20 encoded by the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or the amino acid sequences
   themselves, the sequences can be aligned in order to be subsequently compared to one another.
   Therefore, e.g. a position of a first sequence may be compared with the corresponding position of
   the second sequence. If a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same component as is
   the case at a position in the second sequence, the two sequences are identical at this position. If
25 this is not the case, the sequences differ at this position.    If insertions occur in the second
   sequence in comparison to the first sequence, gaps can be inserted into the first sequence to allow
   a further alignment. If deletions occur in the second sequence in comparison to the first sequence,
   gaps can be inserted into the second sequence to allow a further alignment. The percentage to
   which two sequences are identical is then a function of the number of identical positions divided
30 by the total number of positions including those positions which are only occupied in one
   sequence.     The percentage to which two sequences are identical can be determined using a
   mathematical algorithm. A preferred, but not limiting, example of a mathematical algorithm
   which can be used is the algorithm of Karlin et al. (1993), PNAS USA, 90:5873-5877 or Altschul
   et al. (1997), Nucleic Acids Res., 25:3389-3402. Such an algorithm is integrated in the BLAST
35 program. Sequences which are identical to the sequences of the present invention to a certain
   extent can be identified by this program.

                                                      47
   The inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein may encode derivatives of a peptide or
   protein.   Such a derivative of a peptide or protein is a molecule that is derived from another
   molecule, such as said peptide or protein.         A "derivative" typically contains the full-length
 5 sequence of the natural peptide or protein and additional sequence features, e.g. at the N- or at
   the   C-terminus,    which   may exhibit     an  additional   function   to the  natural full-length
   peptide/protein. Again such derivatives have the same biological function or specific activity or
   at least retain an activity of the natural full length protein of at least 50%, more preferably at
   least 70%, even more preferably at least 90% (measured in an appropriate functional assay, see
10 above, e.g. as expressed by cytokine expression and/or secretion in an immunological reaction)
   as compared to the full-length native peptide or protein, e.g. its specific therapeutic property.
   Thereby,    a   "derivative"  of a   peptide    or  protein   also   encompasses  (chimeric)   fusion
   peptides/proteins comprising a peptide or protein used in the present invention or a natural full
   length protein (or variant/fragment thereof) fused to a distinct peptide/protein awarding e.g.
15 two or more biological functions to the fusion peptide/protein. For example, the fusion comprises
   a label, such as, for example, an epitope, e.g., a FLAG epitope or a V5 epitope or an HA epitope.
   For example, the epitope is a FLAG epitope. Such a tag is useful for, for example, purifying the
   fusion protein.
20 In this context, a "variant" of a protein or peptide may have at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%,
   95%, 98% or 99% amino acid identity over a stretch of 10, 20, 30, 50, 75 or 100 amino acids of
   such protein or peptide. Analogously, a "variant" of a nucleic acid sequence, or particularly, a
   fragment,    may have at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% nucleotide identity
   over a stretch of 10, 20, 30, 50, 75 or 100 nucleotide of such nucleic acid sequence; typically,
25 however, referring to the naturally occurring full-length sequences. In case of "fragments"
   typically, sequence identity is determined for the fragment over length (of the fragment) on the
   portion of the full-length protein (reflecting the same length as the fragment), which exhibits the
   highest level of sequence identity.
30
   In a further preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence is associated with a vehicle, transfection or complexation agent for
   increasing the transfection efficiency and/or the immunostimulatory properties of the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence. Particularly preferred agents in this context suitable for increasing the
35 transfection efficiency are cationic or polycationic compounds, including protamine, nucleoline,
   spermine or spermidine, or other cationic peptides or proteins, such as poly-L-lysine (PLL), poly-

                                                        48
   arginine, basic polypeptides, cell penetrating peptides (CPPs), including HIV-binding peptides,
   HIV-i Tat (HIV), Tat-derived peptides, Penetratin, VP22 derived or analog peptides, HSV VP22
   (Herpes simplex), MAP, KALA or protein transduction domains (PTDs), PpT620, prolin-rich
   peptides, arginine-rich peptides, lysine-rich peptides, MPG-peptide(s),            Pep-1, L-oligomers,
 5 Calcitonin peptide(s), Antennapedia-derived peptides (particularly from Drosophila antennapedia),
   pAntp, pIsl, FGF, Lactoferrin, Transportan, Buforin-2, Bac715-24, SynB, SynB(1), pVEC, hCT
   derived peptides, SAP, or histones. Additionally, preferred cationic or polycationic proteins or
   peptides may be selected from the following proteins or peptides having the following total
   formula: (Arg)1;(Lys)m,;(His),;(Orn) 0 ;(Xaa),   wherein I + m + n +o + x = 8-15, and 1, m, n or o
10 independently of each other may be any number selected from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
    13, 14 or 15, provided that the overall content of Arg, Lys, His and Orn represents at least 50%
   of all amino acids of the oligopeptide; and Xaa may be any amino acid selected from native (=
   naturally occurring) or non-native amino acids except of Arg, Lys, His or Orn; and x may be any
   number selected from 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, provided, that the overall content of Xaa does not exceed 50
15 % of all amino acids of the oligopeptide. Particularly preferred cationic peptides in this context
   are e.g. Arg7 , Arg8 , Arg,, H3RM, RMH 3 , HRWH     3 , YSSRMSSY, (RKH) 4 , Y(RKH) 2R, etc.     Further
   preferred cationic or polycationic compounds, which can be used as transfection agent may
   include cationic polysaccharides, for example chitosan, polybrene, cationic polymers, e.g.
   polyethyleneimine     (PEI), cationic     lipids, e.g. DOTMA:       [1-(2,3-sioleyloxy)propyl)]-N,N,N
20 trimethylammonium chloride, DMRIE, di-C14-amidine, DOTIM, SAINT, DC-Chol, BGTC,
   CTAP, DOPC, DODAP, DOPE: Dioleyl phosphatidylethanol-amine, DOSPA, DODAB, DOIC,
   DMEPC,      DOGS:      Dioctadecylamidoglicylspermin,        DIMRI:   Dimyristo-oxypropyl      dimethyl
   hydroxyethyl ammonium bromide, DOTAP: dioleoyloxy-3-(trimethylammonio)propane, DC-6
    14: O,0-ditetradecanoyl-N-(a-trimethylammonioacetyl)diethanolamine             chloride, CLIP1: rac
25 [(2,3-dioctadecyloxypropyl)(2-hydroxyethyl)]-dimethylammonium            chloride, CLIP6: rac-[2(2,3
   dihexadecyloxypropyl-oxymethyloxy)ethyl]trimethylammonium,                     CLIP9:        rac-[2(2,3
   dihexadecyloxypropyl-oxysuccinyloxy)ethyl]-trimethylammonium,            oligofectamine, or cationic or
   polycationic polymers, e.g. modified polyaminoacids, such as        p-aminoacid-polymers    or reversed
   polyamides,     etc., modified   polyethylenes,     such    as  PVP   (poly(N-ethyl-4-vinylpyridinium
30 bromide)),     etc.,  modified    acrylates,     such    as    pDMAEMA       (poly(dimethylaminoethyl
   methylacrylate)), etc., modified Amidoamines such as pAMAM (poly(amidoamine)), etc., modified
   polybetaaminoester (PBAE), such as diamine end modified 1,4 butanediol diacrylate-co-5-amino
    1-pentanol polymers, etc., dendrimers, such as polypropylamine dendrimers or pAMAM based
   dendrimers, etc., polyimine(s), such as PEI: poly(ethyleneimine), poly(propyleneimine), etc.,
35 polyallylamine, sugar backbone based polymers, such as cyclodextrin based polymers, dextran

                                                    49
   based polymers, chitosan, etc., silan backbone based polymers, such as PMOXA-PDMS
   copolymers, etc., blockpolymers consisting of a combination of one or more cationic blocks (e.g.
   selected from a cationic polymer as mentioned above) and of one or more hydrophilic or
   hydrophobic blocks (e.g polyethyleneglycole); etc.
 5
   In this context it is particularly preferred that the inventive nucleic acid is complexed at least
   partially with a cationic or polycationic compound, preferably cationic proteins or peptides.
   Partially means that only a part of the inventive nucleic acid is complexed with a cationic or
   polycationic compound and that the rest of the inventive nucleic acid is in uncomplexed form
10 ("free"). Preferably the ratio of complexed nucleic acid to: free nucleic acid is selected from a
   range. of about 5:1 (w/w) to about 1:10 (w/w), more preferably from a range of about 4:1 (w/w)
   to about 1:8 (w/w), even more preferably from a range of about 3:1 (w/w) to about 1:5 (w/w) or
    1:3 (w/w), and most preferably the ratio of complexed nucleic acid to free nucleic acid is selected
   from a ratio of about 1:1 (w/w).
15
   It is preferred that the nucleic acid sequence of the invention is provided in either naked form or
   complexed,     e.g.  by polycationic    compounds   of whatever     chemical  structure, preferably
   polycationic (poly)peptides or synthetic polycationic compounds. Preferably, the nucleic acid
   sequence is not provided together with a packaging cell.
20
   In a further aspect the invention provides for a composition or kit or kit of parts comprising a
   plurality or more than one, preferably 2 to 10, more preferably 2 to 5, most preferably 2 to 4 of
   the inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein. These inventive compositions comprise
   more than one inventive nucleic acid sequences, preferably encoding different peptides or
25 proteins     which comprise preferably different tumour antigens        or fragments, variants or
   derivatives thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment the inventive composition or kit or kit of parts comprising a plurality
   (which means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10,
30 preferably 2 to 5 nucleic acids) of inventive nucleic acid sequences, particularly for use in the
   treatment of prostate cancer (PCa) comprises at least:
             a)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                 encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen PSA, or a fragment,
                 variant or derivative thereof; and

                                                      50
            b)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen PSMA, or a fragment,
                variant or derivative thereof; and
            c)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
 5              encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen PSCA, or a fragment,
                variant or derivative thereof; and
            d)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen STEAP-1, or a fragment,
                variant or derivative thereof
10
   In a further preferred embodiment the inventive composition or kit or kit of parts comprising a
   plurality (which means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to
    10, preferably 2 to 5 nucleic acids) of inventive nucleic acid sequences, particularly for use in the
   treatment of non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) comprises at least:
15          a)    a nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
                     i.   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises the
                          tumour antigen NY-ESO-1, or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof,
                     ii.  at least one histone stem-loop, and
                     iii. a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
20          b)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen 5T4, or a fragment, variant
                or derivative thereof; and
            c)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen Survivin, or a fragment,
25              variant or derivative thereof
   Furthermore in an alternative, the inventive composition or kit or kit of parts comprising a
   plurality (which means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to
   10, preferably 2 to 5 nucleic acids) of inventive nucleic acid sequences, particularly for use in
30 the treatment of non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) comprises at least:
            a)  a nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
                     i.   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises the
                          tumour antigen NY-ESO-1, or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof,
                     ii.  at least one histone stem-loop, and

                                                     51
                     iii. a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
            b)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen 5T4, or a fragment, variant
                or derivative thereof; and
 5          c)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen Survivin, or a fragment,
                variant or derivative thereof; and
            d)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen MAGE-C1, or a fragment,
10              variant or derivative thereof; and
            e)  an inventive nucleic acid encoding at least one peptide or protein, wherein said
                encoded peptide or protein comprises the tumour antigen MAGE-C2, or a fragment,
                variant or derivative thereof
15 According to a further aspect, the present invention also provides a method for increasing the
   expression of an encoded peptide or protein comprising the steps, e.g. a) providing the inventive
   nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or the inventive composition comprising a plurality
   (which means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10,
   preferably 2 to 5 nucleic acids) of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein, b) applying
20 or administering the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or the inventive
   composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein to an
   expression system, e.g. to a cell-free expression system, a cell (e.g. an expression host cell or a
   somatic cell), a tissue or an organism. The method may be applied for laboratory, for research, for
   diagnostic, for commercial production of peptides or proteins and/or for therapeutic purposes. In
25 this context, typically after preparing the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of
   the inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined
   herein, it is typically applied or administered to a cell-free expression system, a cell (e.g. an
   expression host cell or a somatic cell), a tissue or an organism, e.g. in naked or complexed form
   or as a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described herein, preferably via transfection or
30 by using any of the administration modes as described herein. The method may be carried out in
   vitro, in vivo or ex vivo. The method may furthermore be carried out in the context of the
   treatment of a specific disease, particularly in the treatment of cancer or tumour diseases,
   preferably as defined herein.
35 In this context in vitro is defined herein as transfection or transduction of the inventive nucleic
   acid as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic

                                                      52
   acid sequences as defined herein into cells in culture outside of an organism; in vivo is defined
   herein as transfection or transduction of the inventive nucleic acid or of the inventive
   composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences into cells by application of
   the inventive nucleic acid or of the inventive composition to the whole organism or individual
 5 and ex vivo is defined herein as transfection or transduction of the inventive nucleic acid or of the
   inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences (which means
   typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10, preferably 2 to 5
   nucleic acids) into cells outside of an organism or individual and subsequent application of the
   transfected cells to the organism or individual.
10
   Likewise, according to another aspect, the present invention also provides the use of the
   inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a
   plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein, preferably for diagnostic or
   therapeutic purposes, for increasing the expression of an encoded peptide or protein, e.g. by
15 applying or administering the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of the
   inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined
   herein, e.g. to a cell-free expression system, a cell (e.g. an expression host cell or a somatic cell), a
   tissue or an organism. The use may be applied for laboratory, for research, for diagnostic for
   commercial production of peptides or proteins and/or for therapeutic purposes. In this context,
20 typically after preparing the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of the inventive
   composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein, it is
   typically applied or administered to a cell-free expression system, a cell (e.g. an expression host
   cell or a somatic cell), a tissue or an organism, preferably in naked form or complexed form, or as
   a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described herein, preferably via transfection or by
25 using any of the administration modes as described herein. The use may be carried out in vitro, in
   vivo or ex vivo. The use may furthermore be carried out in the context of the treatment of a
   specific disease, particularly in the treatment of cancer or tumour diseases, preferably as defined
   herein.
30 In yet another aspect the present invention also relates to an inventive expression system
   comprising an inventive nucleic acid sequence or expression vector or plasmid according to the
   first aspect of the present invention. In this context the expression system may be a cell-free
   expression system (e.g. an in vitro transcription/translation system), a cellular expression system
   (e.g. mammalian cells like CHO cells, insect cells, yeast cells, bacterial cells like E. colh) or
35 organisms used for expression of peptides or proteins (e.g. plants or animals like cows).

                                                     53
   Additionally, according to another aspect, the present invention also relates to the use of the
   inventive nucleic acid as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a plurality of
   inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein for the preparation of a pharmaceutical
 5 composition for increasing the expression of an encoded peptide or protein, e.g. for treating a
   cancer or tumour disease, preferably as defined herein, e.g. applying or administering the
   inventive nucleic acid as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a plurality of
   inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein to a cell (e.g. an expression host cell or a
   somatic cell), a tissue or an organism, preferably in naked form or complexed form or as a
10 pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described herein, more preferably using any of the
   administration modes as described herein.
   Accordingly,    in  a particular    preferred   aspect,  the present    invention   also provides  a
   pharmaceutical composition, comprising an inventive nucleic acid as defined herein or an
15 inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein
   and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or vehicle.
   As a first ingredient, the inventive pharmaceutical composition comprises at least one inventive
   nucleic acid as defined herein.
20
   As a second ingredient the inventive pharmaceutical composition may optional comprise at least
   one additional pharmaceutically active component. A pharmaceutically active component in this
   connection is a compound that has a therapeutic effect to heal, ameliorate or prevent a particular
   indication or disease as mentioned herein, preferably cancer or tumour diseases. Such compounds
25 include, without implying any limitation, peptides or proteins, preferably as defined herein,
   nucleic acids, preferably as defined herein, (therapeutically active) low molecular weight organic
   or inorganic compounds (molecular weight less than 5000, preferably less than 1000), sugars,
   antigens or antibodies, preferably as defined herein, therapeutic agents already known in the
   prior art, antigenic cells, antigenic cellular fragments, cellular fractions; cell wall components
30 (e.g. polysaccharides), modified, attenuated or de-activated (e.g. chemically or by irradiation)
   pathogens (virus, bacteria etc.), adjuvants, preferably as defined herein, etc.
   Furthermore, the inventive pharmaceutical composition may comprise a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier and/or vehicle. In the context of the present invention, a pharmaceutically
35 acceptable carrier typically includes the liquid or non-liquid basis of the inventive pharmaceutical
   composition. If the inventive pharmaceutical composition is provided in liquid form, the carrier

                                                     54
   will typically be pyrogen-free       water; isotonic saline or buffered (aqueous) solutions, e.g
   phosphate, citrate etc. buffered solutions. The injection buffer may be hypertonic, isotonic or
   hypotonic with reference to the specific reference medium, i.e. the buffer may have a higher,
   identical or lower salt content with reference to the specific reference medium, wherein
 5 preferably such concentrations of the afore mentioned salts may be used, which do not lead to
   damage of cells due to osmosis or other concentration effects. Reference media are e.g. liquids
   occurring in "in vivd' methods, such as blood, lymph, cytosolic liquids, or other body liquids, or
   e.g. liquids, which may be used as reference media in "in vitrd' methods, such as common buffers
   or liquids. Such common buffers or liquids are known to a skilled person. Ringer-Lactate solution
10 is particularly preferred as a liquid basis.
   However, one or more compatible solid or liquid fillers or diluents or encapsulating compounds
   may be used as well for the inventive pharmaceutical composition, which are suitable for
   administration to a patient to be treated. The term "compatible" as used here means that these
15 constituents of the inventive pharmaceutical composition are capable of being mixed with the
   inventive nucleic acid as defined herein in such a manner that no interaction occurs which would
   substantially    reduce  the    pharmaceutical   effectiveness of the   inventive  pharmaceutical
   composition under typical use conditions.
20 According to a specific embodiment, the inventive pharmaceutical composition may comprise an
   adjuvant. In this context, an adjuvant may be understood as any compound, which is suitable to
   initiate or increase an immune response of the innate immune system, i.e. a non-specific immune
   response. With other words, when administered, the inventive pharmaceutical composition
   preferably elicits an innate immune response due to the adjuvant, optionally contained therein.
25 Preferably, such an adjuvant may be selected from an adjuvant known to a skilled person and
   suitable for the present case, i.e. supporting the induction of an innate immune response in a
   mammal, e.g. an adjuvant protein as defined above or an adjuvant as defined in the following.
   Particularly preferred as adjuvants suitable for depot and delivery are cationic or polycationic
30 compounds as defined above for the inventive nucleic acid sequence as vehicle, transfection or
   complexation agent.
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition can additionally contain one or more auxiliary
   substances in order to increase its immunogenicity or immunostimulatory capacity, if desired. A
35 synergistic action of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein and of an auxiliary
   substance, which may be optionally contained in the inventive pharmaceutical composition, is

                                                         55
   preferably achieved thereby. Depending on the various types of auxiliary substances, various
   mechanisms can come into consideration in this respect. For example, compounds that permit the
   maturation of dendritic cells (DCs), for example lipopolysaccharides, TNF-alpha or CD40 ligand,
   form a first class of suitable auxiliary substances. In general, it is possible to use as auxiliary
 5 substance any agent that influences the immune system in the manner of a "danger signal" (LPS,
   GP96, etc.) or cytokines, such as GM-CFS, which allow an immune response to be enhanced
   and/or influenced      in a targeted manner. Particularly preferred auxiliary substances are
   cytokines, such as monokines, lymphokines, interleukins or chemokines, that further promote the
   innate immune response, such as IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-s, IL-9, IL-io, IL-12,
10 IL-13, IL-14, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-is, IL-19, IL-20, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-24, IL-25, IL-26,
   IL-27, IL-28, IL-29, IL-so, IL-3i, IL-32, IL-ss, IFN-alpha, IFN-beta, IFN-gamma, GM-CSF, G
   CSF, M-CSF, LT-beta or TNF-alpha, growth factors, such as hGH.
   Further additives which may be included in the inventive pharmaceutical composition are
15 emulsifiers, such as, for example, Tween*; wetting agents, such as, for example, sodium lauryl
   sulfate; colouring agents; taste-imparting agents, pharmaceutical carriers; tablet-forming agents;
   stabilizers; antioxidants; preservatives.
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition can also additionally contain any further compound,
20 which is known to be immunostimulating due to its binding affinity (as ligands) to human Toll
   like receptors TLRi, TLR2, TLRS, TLR4, TLR5, TLR6, TLR7, TLRs, TLR9, TLRio, or due
   to its binding affinity (as ligands) to murine Toll-like receptors TLR1, TLR2, TLRS, TLR4,
   TLR5, TLR6, TLR7, TLRs, TLR9, TLRio, TLRi 1, TLR12 or TLRis.
25 The inventive pharmaceutical          composition     may be administered        orally, parenterally,    by
   inhalation spray, topically, rectally, nasally, buccally, vaginally or via an implanted reservoir.
   The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, intra
   articular,   intra-synovial,   intrasternal,    intrathecal,   intrahepatic,   intralesional,   intracranial,
   transdermal,     intradermal,    intrapulmonal,      intraperitoneal,    intracardial,   intraarterial,  and
30 sublingual injection or infusion techniques.
   Preferably, the inventive pharmaceutical           composition may be administered            by parenteral
   injection, more preferably by subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, intra-articular, intra
   synovial,    intrasternal,   intrathecal,    intrahepatic,    intralesional,   intracranial,   transdermal,
35 intradermal, intrapulmonal, intraperitoneal, intracardial, intraarterial, and sublingual injection or

                                                     56
   via infusion techniques. Particularly preferred is intradermal and intramuscular injection. Sterile
   injectable forms of the inventive pharmaceutical compositions may be aqueous or oleaginous
   suspension. These suspensions may be formulated according to techniques known in the art
   using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents.
 5
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition as defined herein may also be administered orally in
   any orally acceptable dosage form including, but not limited to, capsules, tablets, aqueous
   suspensions or solutions.
10 The inventive pharmaceutical composition may also be administered topically, especially when
   the target of treatment includes areas or organs readily accessible by topical application, e.g.
   including diseases of the skin or of any other accessible epithelial tissue. Suitable topical
   formulations are readily prepared for each of these areas or organs. For topical applications, the
   inventive pharmaceutical composition may be formulated in a suitable ointment, containing the
15 inventive nucleic acid as defined herein suspended or dissolved in one or more carriers.
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition typically comprises a "safe and effective amount" of
   the components of the inventive pharmaceutical composition, particularly of the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence(s) as defined herein. As used herein, a "safe and effective amount" means an amount
20 of the inventive nucleic acid sequence(s) as defined herein as such that is sufficient to significantly
   induce a positive modification of a disease or disorder as defined herein. At the same time,
   however, a "safe and effective amount" is small enough to avoid serious side-effects and to permit
   a sensible relationship between advantage and risk. The determination of these limits typically
   lies within the scope of sensible medical judgment.
25
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition may be used for human and also for veterinary
   medical purposes, preferably for human medical purposes, as a pharmaceutical composition in
   general or as a vaccine.
30 According to another particularly preferred aspect, the inventive pharmaceutical composition (or
   the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or the inventive composition comprising a
   plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein) may be provided or used as a
   vaccine. Typically, such a vaccine is as defined above for pharmaceutical                compositions.
   Additionally, such a vaccine typically contains the inventive nucleic acid as defined herein or the
35 inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined
   herein.

                                                    57
   The inventive vaccine may also comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant, and/or
   vehicle as defined herein for the inventive pharmaceutical composition. In the specific context of
   the inventive vaccine, the choice of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is determined in
 5 principle by the manner in which the inventive vaccine is administered. The inventive vaccine
   can be administered, for example, systemically or locally. Routes for systemic administration in
   general include, for example, transdermal, oral, parenteral routes, including subcutaneous,
   intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial, intradermal and intraperitoneal injections and/or
   intranasal administration routes. Routes for local administration in general include, for example,
10 topical administration routes but also intradermal, transdermal, subcutaneous, or intramuscular
   injections or intralesional, intracranial, intrapulmonal, intracardial, and sublingual injections.
   More    preferably, vaccines    may   be   administered   by an    intradermal,  subcutaneous,   or
   intramuscular    route. Inventive vaccines are therefore preferably formulated in liquid (or
   sometimes in solid) form.
15
   The inventive vaccine can additionally contain one or more auxiliary substances in order to
   increase its immunogenicity or immunostimulatory capacity, if desired. Particularly preferred are
   adjuvants as auxiliary substances or additives as defined for the pharmaceutical composition.
20 The present invention furthermore provides several applications and uses of the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence as defined herein, of the inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive
   nucleic acid sequences as defined herein, of the inventive pharmaceutical composition, of the
   inventive vaccine, all comprising the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of kits
   comprising same.
25
   According to one specific aspect, the present invention is directed to the first medical use of the
   inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a
   plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein as a medicament, preferably as a
   vaccine particularly in the treatment of cancer or tumour diseases.
30
   According to another aspect, the present invention is directed to the second medical use of the
   inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or of the inventive composition comprising a
   plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein, for the treatment of cancer and
   tumour diseases as defined herein, preferably to the use of the inventive nucleic acid sequence as
35 defined herein, of the inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid
   sequences as defined herein, of a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine comprising same or of

                                                       58
   kits comprising same for the preparation of a medicament for the prophylaxis, treatment and/or
   amelioration of cancer or tumour diseases as defined herein.             Preferably, the pharmaceutical
   composition or a vaccine is used or to be administered to a patient in need thereof for this
   purpose.
 5
   Preferably, diseases as mentioned herein are selected from cancer or tumour diseases which
   preferably include e.g. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Acute myeloid leukemia, Adrenocortical
   carcinoma, AIDS-related cancers, AIDS-related lymphoma, Anal cancer, Appendix cancer,
   Astrocytoma,     Basal   cell    carcinoma,    Bile  duct  cancer,   Bladder     cancer,   Bone   cancer,
10 Osteosarcoma/Malignant         fibrous histiocytoma, Brainstem glioma, Brain tumor, cerebellar
   astrocytoma,     cerebral     astrocytoma/malignant       glioma,    ependymoma,        medulloblastoma,
   supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors, visual pathway and hypothalamic glioma,
   Breast cancer, Bronchial adenomas/carcinoids, Burkitt lymphoma, childhood Carcinoid tumor,
   gastrointestinal Carcinoid tumor, Carcinoma of unknown primary, primary Central nervous
15 system      lymphoma,          childhood      Cerebellar      astrocytoma,        childhood     Cerebral
   astrocytoma/Malignant       glioma, Cervical      cancer, Childhood cancers, Chronic lymphocytic
   leukemia, Chronic myelogenous leukemia, Chronic myeloproliferative disorders, Colon Cancer,
   Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Desmoplastic              small round cell tumor, Endometrial          cancer,
   Ependymoma, Esophageal cancer, Ewing's sarcoma in the Ewing family of tumors, Childhood
20 Extracranial germ cell tumor, Extragonadal Germ cell tumor, Extrahepatic bile duct cancer,
   Intraocular   melanoma,       Retinoblastoma,     Gallbladder    cancer,    Gastric   (Stomach)   cancer,
   Gastrointestinal    Carcinoid     Tumor, Gastrointestinal      stromal    tumor (GIST), extracranial,
   extragonadal, or ovarian Germ cell tumor, Gestational trophoblastic tumor, Glioma of the brain
   stem, Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma, Childhood Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma,
25 Gastric carcinoid, Hairy cell leukemia, Head and neck cancer, Heart cancer, Hepatocellular (liver)
   cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma, Hypopharyngeal               cancer, childhood      Hypothalamic and visual
   pathway glioma, Intraocular Melanoma, Islet Cell Carcinoma (Endocrine Pancreas), Kaposi
   sarcoma, Kidney cancer (renal cell cancer), Laryngeal Cancer, Leukemias, acute lymphoblastic
   Leukemia, acute myeloid Leukemia, chronic lymphocytic Leukemia, chronic myelogenous
30 Leukemia, hairy cell Leukemia, Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer, Liposarcoma, Liver Cancer, Non
   Small Cell Lung Cancer, Small Cell Lung Cancer, Lymphomas, AIDS-related Lymphoma,
   Burkitt   Lymphoma,       cutaneous     T-Cell    Lymphoma,     Hodgkin     Lymphoma,      Non-Hodgkin
   Lymphomas, Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma, Waldenstrbm Macroglobulinemia,
   Malignant     Fibrous    Histiocytoma      of   Bone/Osteosarcoma,        Childhood     Medulloblastoma,
35 Melanoma,      Intraocular     (Eye)   Melanoma,      Merkel    Cell   Carcinoma,      Adult  Malignant
   Mesothelioma, Childhood         Mesothelioma, Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult

                                                     59
   Primary, Mouth       Cancer,   Childhood    Multiple Endocrine     Neoplasia   Syndrome,   Multiple
   Myeloma/Plasma         Cell   Neoplasm,     Mycosis    Fungoides,    Myelodysplastic    Syndromes,
   Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative      Diseases, Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, Adult Acute
   Myeloid Leukemia, Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Multiple Myeloma (Cancer of the Bone
 5 Marrow), Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders, Nasal cavity and paranasal sinus cancer,
   Nasopharyngeal       carcinoma,     Neuroblastoma,      Oral   Cancer,     Oropharyngeal    cancer,
   Osteosarcoma/malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone, Ovarian cancer, Ovarian epithelial cancer
   (Surface epithelial-stromal tumor), Ovarian germ cell tumor, Ovarian low malignant potential
   tumor, Pancreatic cancer, islet cell Pancreatic cancer, Paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer,
10 Parathyroid cancer, Penile cancer, Pharyngeal cancer, Pheochromocytoma, Pineal astrocytoma,
   Pineal germinoma, childhood Pineoblastoma and supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal
   tumors,    Pituitary   adenoma,    Plasma   cell  neoplasia/Multiple   myeloma,    Pleuropulmonary
   blastoma, Primary central nervous system lymphoma, Prostate cancer, Rectal cancer, Renal cell
   carcinoma (kidney cancer), Cancer of the Renal pelvis and ureter, Retinoblastoma, childhood
15 Rhabdomyosarcoma, Salivary gland cancer, Sarcoma of the Ewing family of tumors, Kaposi
   Sarcoma, soft tissue Sarcoma, uterine Sarcoma, S6zary syndrome, Skin cancer (nonmelanoma),
   Skin cancer (melanoma), Merkel cell Skin carcinoma, Small intestine cancer, Squamous cell
   carcinoma, metastatic Squamous neck cancer with occult primary, childhood Supratentorial
   primitive neuroectodermal      tumor, Testicular cancer, Throat cancer, childhood        Thymoma,
20 Thymoma and Thymic carcinoma, Thyroid cancer, childhood Thyroid cancer, Transitional cell
   cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter, gestational Trophoblastic tumor, Urethral cancer,
   endometrial Uterine cancer, Uterine sarcoma, Vaginal cancer, childhood Visual pathway and
   hypothalamic glioma, Vulvar cancer, Waldenstrbm macroglobulinemia, and childhood Wilms
   tumor (kidney cancer).
25
   In a further preferred aspect, the inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein or the
   inventive composition comprising a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences as defined herein
   may be used for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition or a vaccine, particularly for
   purposes as defined herein.
30
   The inventive pharmaceutical composition or vaccine may furthermore be used for the treatment
   of a disease or a disorder, preferably of cancer or tumour diseases as defined herein.
   According to a final aspect, the present invention also provides kits, particularly kits of parts.
35 Such kits, particularly kits of parts, typically comprise as components alone or in combination
   with further components as defined herein at least one inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined

                                                       60
   herein, the inventive pharmaceutical composition or vaccine comprising the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence. The at least one inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined herein, is optionally in
   combination with further components as defined herein, whereby the at least one nucleic acid of
   the invention is provided separately (first part of the kit) from at least one other part of the kit
 5 comprising one or more other components. The inventive pharmaceutical composition and/or
   the inventive vaccine may e.g. occur in one or different parts of the kit. As an example, e.g. at
   least one part of the kit may comprise at least one inventive nucleic acid sequence as defined
   herein, and at least one further part of the kit at least one other component as defined herein, e.g.
   at least one other part of the kit may comprise at least one pharmaceutical composition or vaccine
10 or a part thereof, e.g. at least one part of the kit may comprise the inventive nucleic acid sequence
   as defined herein, at least one further part of the kit at least one other component as defined
   herein, at least one further part of the kit at least one component of the inventive pharmaceutical
   composition or vaccine or the inventive pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as a whole, and at
   least one further part of the kit e.g. at least one pharmaceutical carrier or vehicle, etc. In case the
15 kit or kit of parts comprises a plurality of inventive nucleic acid sequences, one component of the
   kit can comprise only one, several or all inventive nucleic acid sequences comprised in the kit. In
   an alternative embodiment each/every inventive nucleic acid sequence may be comprised in a
   different /separate component of the kit such that each component forms a part of the kit. Also,
   more than one nucleic acid may be comprised in a first component as part of the kit, whereas one
20 or more other (second, third etc.) components (providing one or more other parts of the kit) may
   either contain one or more than one inventive nucleic acids, which may be identical or partially
   identical or different from the first component. The kit or kit of parts may furthermore contain
   technical instructions with information on the administration and dosage of the inventive nucleic
   acid sequence, the inventive pharmaceutical composition or the inventive vaccine or of any of its
25 components or parts, e.g. if the kit is prepared as a kit of parts.
   Taken together, the invention provides a nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
            a)    a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
            b)    at least one histone stem-loop, and
30          c)    a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
   wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or derivative of
   said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a melanocyte-specific antigen, a
   cancer-testis antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT
   antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a
35 tumour-specific antigen, more preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT
   antigen or a tumour-specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen.

                                                     61
   In a further preferred embodiment, the invention relates to a composition comprising at least one
   type of nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
       a)   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
 5     b)   at least one histone stem-loop, and
       c)   a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
       wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or derivative
            of said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a melanocyte-specific
            antigen, a cancer-testis antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, preferably a CT-X antigen,
10          a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen or a binding partner for a
            non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more preferably a CT-X antigen, a
            binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen or a fragment,
            variant or derivative of said tumour antigen; and wherein each of the nucleic acid
            sequences encodes a different peptide or protein.
15 The    composition    may comprise      further  an  pharmaceutically    acceptable carrier  and/or
   pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants as defined herein. The composition may be used as a
   vaccine or for treatment of a disease associated with cancer or tumour.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising at least two,
20 preferably two or more, more preferably a plurality of nucleic acid sequences sequence (which
   means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10, preferably 2
   to 5 nucleic acids) comprising or coding for
       a)   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
       b)   at least one histone stem-loop, and
25     c)   a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
            wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or
            derivative of said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a
            melanocyte-specific    antigen, a cancer-testis   antigen or a tumour-specific     antigen,
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen
30          or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour
            specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen; and wherein
            each of the nucleic acid sequences encodes a different peptide or protein.
   The    composition    may comprise      further  an  pharmaceutically    acceptable carrier  and/or
35 pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants as defined herein. The composition may be used as a
   vaccine or for treatment of a disease associated with cancer or tumour.

                                                    62
   In a further preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising at least two,
   preferably two or more, more preferably a plurality (which means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4,
   5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10, preferably 2 to 5 nucleic acids) of nucleic acid
 5 sequences sequence comprising or coding for
       a)   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
       b)   at least one histone stem-loop, and
       c)   a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
            wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or
10          derivative of said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a
            melanocyte-specific    antigen, a cancer-testis  antigen or a tumour-specific      antigen,
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen
            or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour
15          specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen; and wherein
            each of the nucleic acid sequences encodes a different peptide or protein; and preferably
            wherein each type of nucleic acid sequence encodes for a different peptide or protein,
            preferably for a different tumour antigen.
   The    composition    may comprise      further an  pharmaceutically     acceptable carrier  and/or
20 pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants as defined herein. The composition may be used as a
   vaccine or for treatment of a disease associated with cancer or tumour.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising at least two,
   preferably two or more, more preferably a plurality of nucleic acid sequences sequence (which
25 means typically more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more than 10 nucleic acids, e.g. 2 to 10, preferably 2
   to 5 nucleic acids) comprising or coding for
       a)   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
       b)   at least one histone stem-loop, and
       c)   a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
30          wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or
            derivative of said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a
            melanocyte-specific    antigen, a cancer-testis  antigen or a tumour-specific      antigen,
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen
            or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more
35          preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour
            specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen; and wherein

                                                      63
            each of the nucleic acid sequences encodes a different peptide or protein; and preferably
            wherein each type of nucleic acid sequence encodes for a different peptide or protein,
            preferably for a different tumour antigen, more preferably, wherein one type of the
            contained nucleic acid sequences encodes for PSA, PSMA, PSCA, STEAP-i, NY-ESO-i,
 5          5T4, Survivin, MAGE-C 1, or MAGE-C2.
   The    composition    may comprise      further   an  pharmaceutically   acceptable  carrier  and/or
   pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants as defined herein. The composition may be used as a
   vaccine or for treatment of a disease associated with cancer or tumour.
10 In some embodiments, it may be preferred, provided that the composition contains only one type
   of nucleic acid sequence, if the nucleic acid sequence does not encode for NY-ESO 1, provided that
   the composition contains only one type of nucleic acid sequence.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising at least two
15 nucleic acid sequences sequence comprising or coding for
       a)   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
       b)   at least one histone stem-loop, and
       c)   a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
            wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or
20          derivative of said tumour antigen, preferably, wherein the tumour antigen is a
            melanocyte-specific   antigen, a cancer-testis    antigen or a tumour-specific      antigen,
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen
            or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more
            preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour
25          specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen; and wherein
            each of the nucleic acid sequences encodes a different peptide or protein; and wherein at
            least one of the nucleic acid sequences encodes for 5T4, 707-AP, 9D7, AFP, AlbZIP
            HPG1,     alpha-.5-beta-i-integrin,   alpha-5-beta-6-integrin,   alpha-actinin-4/m,   alpha
            methylacyl-coenzyme A racemase, ART-4, ARTCi/m, B7H4, BAGE-i, BCL-2, bcr/abl,
30          beta-catenin/m, BING-4, BRCAi/m, BRCA2/m, CA i5-3/CA 27-29, CA 19-9, CA72-4,
            CA125, calreticulin, CAMEL, CASP-8/m, cathepsin B, cathepsin L, CD19, CD20, CD22,
            CD25, CDESo, CD33,          CD4, CD52,      CD55,   CD56,    CDso, CDC27/m, CDK4/m,
            CDKN2A/m, CEA, CLCA2, CML28, CML66, COA-1/m, coactosin-like protein, collage
            XXIII, COX-2, CT-9/BRD6, Cten, cyclin B1,            cyclin D1, cyp-B, CYPB1, DAM-10,
35          DAM-6, DEK-CAN,         EFTUD2/m, EGFR, ELF2/m, EMMPRIN, EpCam, EphA2,
            EphAs, ErbB3, ETV6-AMLi, EZH2, FGF-5, FN, Frau-i, G25o, GAGE-i, GAGE-2,

                                                     64
             GAGE-3, GAGE-4, GAGE-5, GAGE-6, GAGE7b, GAGE-8, GDEP, GnT-V, gpioo,
             GPC3, GPNMB/m, HAGE, HAST-2, hepsin, Her2/neu, HERV-K-MEL, HLA-A*0201
             R171, HLA-A11/m, HLA-A2/m, HNE, homeobox NKX3.1,                     HOM-TES-14/SCP-1,
             HOM-TES-85, HPV-E6, HPV-E7, HSP70-2M, HST-2, hTERT, iCE, IGF-1R, IL
 5           i3Ra2,   IL-2R,   IL-5,  immature    laminin  receptor, kallikrein-2,    kallikrein-4,  Ki67,
             KIAA0205, KIAA0205/m, KK-LC-i, K-Ras/m, LAGE-Ai, LDLR-FUT, MAGE-Ai,
             MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A6, MAGE-A9, MAGE-A10, MAGE-A12,
             MAGE-Bi, MAGE-B2, MAGE-B3, MAGE-B4, MAGE-B5, MAGE-B6, MAGE-Bio,
             MAGE-B16, MAGE-B17, MAGE-C1, MAGE-C2, MAGE-C3, MAGE-Di, MAGE-D2,
10           MAGE-D4, MAGE-Ei, MAGE-E2, MAGE-Fi, MAGE-Hi, MAGEL2, mammaglobin
             A, MART-1/melan-A, MART-2, MART-2/m, matrix protein 22, MCiR, M-CSF,
             ME1/m, mesothelin, MG5o/PXDN, MMPi1,              MN/CA IX-antigen, MRP-3, MUC-1,
             MUC-2,     MUM-1/m,      MUM-2/m,       MUM-3/m,      myosin    class  I/m, NA88-A,        N
             acetylglucosaminyltransferase-V, Neo-PAP, Neo-PAP/m, NFYC/m, NGEP, NMP22,
15           NPM/ALK, N-Ras/m, NSE, NY-ESO-B, OAI, OFA-iLRP, OGT, OGT/m, OS-9, OS
             9/m, osteocalcin, osteopontin, pI5, p190 minor bcr-abl, p53, p53/m, PAGE-4, PAI-i,
             PAI-2, PAP, PART-i, PATE, PDEF, Pim-1-Kinase, Pin-1, Pml/PARalpha, POTE,
             PRAME,     PRDX5/m, prostein, proteinase-3,        PSA,    PSCA,    PSGR, PSM,         PSMA,
             PTPRK/m, RAGE-1,          RBAF600/m, RHAMM/CD168,             RU1,    RU2, S-ioo, SAGE,
20           SART-i, SART-2, SART-3, SCC, SIRT2/m, Sp17, SSX-I, SSX-2/HOM-MEL-40, SSX
             4, STAMP-i, STEAP-i, survivin, survivin-2B, SYT-SSX-I, SYT-SSX-2, TA-90, TAG
             72, TARP, TEL-AMLI, TGFbeta, TGFbetaRII, TGM-4, TPI/m, TRAG-3, TRG,
             TRP-i, TRP-2/6b, TRP/INT2, TRP-p8, tyrosinase, UPA, VEGFRI, VEGFR-2/FLK
             1, WTI and a immunoglobulin idiotype of a lymphoid blood cell or a T cell receptor
25           idiotype of a lymphoid blood cell, or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour
             antigen; preferably survivin or a homologue thereof, an antigen from the MAGE-family
             or a binding partner thereof or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen.
   The     composition   may comprise      further  an  pharmaceutically    acceptable    carrier   and/or
30 pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants as defined herein. The composition may be used as a
   vaccine or for treatment of a disease associated with cancer or tumour.
    It is to be noted that, throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word
   'comprise' and variations of the word, such as 'comprising' and 'comprises', is not intended to
35 exclude other variants or additional         components, integers or steps.        Modifications and

                                                  65
  improvements to the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Such
  modifications and improvements are intended to be within the scope of this invention.
  Any reference to or discussion of any document, act or item of knowledge in this specification is
5 included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention.      It is not
  suggested or represented that any of these matters or any combination thereof formed at the
  priority date part of the common general knowledge, or was known to be relevant to an attempt
  to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.

                                                    66
   Figures:
   The following Figures are intended to illustrate the invention further and shall not be construed
   to limit the present invention thereto.
 5
   Figure 1:        shows the histone stem-loop consensus sequence generated from metazoan and
                    protozoan stem loop sequences (as reported by DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson,
                    T.  (2008), RNA (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308). 4001
                    histone stem-loop sequences from metazoa and protozoa were aligned and the
10                  quantity of the occurring nucleotides is indicated for every position in the stem
                    loop sequence. The generated consensus sequence representing all nucleotides
                    present in the sequences analyzed is given using the single-letter nucleotide code.
                    In addition to the consensus sequence, sequences are shown representing at least
                    99%, 95% and 90% of the nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed.
15
   Figure 2:        shows the histone stem-loop consensus sequence generated from protozoan stem
                    loop sequences (as reported by DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T. (2008), RNA
                    (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308).     131 histone stem-loop
20                  sequences from protozoa were aligned and the quantity of the occurring
                    nucleotides is indicated for every position in the stem-loop sequence.         The
                    generated consensus sequence       representing  all nucleotides present in the
                    sequences analyzed is given using the single-letter nucleotide code. In addition to
                    the consensus sequence, sequences are shown representing at least 99%, 95% and
25                  90% of the nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed.
   Figure 3:        shows the histone stem-loop consensus sequence generated from metazoan stem
                    loop sequences (as reported by DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T. (2008), RNA
                    (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308). 3870 histone stem-loop
30                  sequences from metazoa were         aligned and the quantity of the occurring
                    nucleotides is indicated for every position in the stem-loop sequence. The
                    generated consensus sequence       representing  all nucleotides present in the
                    sequences analyzed is given using the single-letter nucleotide code. In addition to
                    the consensus sequence, sequences are shown representing at least 99%, 95% and
35                  90% of the nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed.

                                                   67
   Figure 4:      shows the histone stem-loop consensus sequence generated from vertebrate stem
                  loop sequences (as reported by DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T. (2008), RNA
                  (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308). 1333 histone stem-loop
                  sequences from vertebrates were aligned and the quantity of the occurring
 5                nucleotides is indicated for every position in the stem-loop sequence. The
                  generated consensus sequence        representing  all nucleotides present in the
                  sequences analyzed is given using the single-letter nucleotide code. In addition to
                  the consensus sequence, sequences are shown representing at least 99%, 95% and
                  90% of the nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed.
10
   Figure 5:      shows the histone stem-loop consensus sequence generated from human (Homo
                  sapiens) stem loop sequences (as reported by DAvila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T.
                  (2008), RNA (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308). 84 histone
                  stem-loop sequences from humans were aligned and the quantity of the occurring
15                nucleotides is indicated for every position in the stem-loop sequence. The
                  generated consensus sequence        representing  all nucleotides present in the
                  sequences analyzed is given using the single-letter nucleotide code. In addition to
                  the consensus sequence, sequences are shown representing at least 99%, 95% and
                  90% of the nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed.
20
   Figures 6 to 21: show mRNAs from in vitro transcription.
                  Given are the designation and the sequence of mRNAs obtained by in vitro
                  transcription. The following abbreviations are used:
25                ppLuc (GC):             GC-enriched mRNA sequence coding for Photinus pyralis
                                          luciferase
                  ag:                     3' untranslated region (UTR) of the alpha globin gene
                  A64:                    poly(A)-sequence with 64 adenylates
                  A 120:                  poly(A)-sequence wit 120 adenylates
30                histoneSL:              histone stem-loop
                  aCPSL:                  stem loop which has been selected from a library for its
                                          specific binding of the aCP-2KL protein
                  PolioCL:                5' clover leaf from Polio virus genomic RNA
                  G3o:                    poly(G) sequence with 30 guanylates
35                Us0:                    poly(U) sequence with 30 uridylates
                  SL:                     unspecific/artificial stem-loop
                  N32:                    unspecific sequence of 32 nucleotides
                  NY-ESO-i (G/C):         GC-enriched mRNA sequence coding for the human
                                          tumour antigen NY-ESO-1
40                Survivin(G/C):          GC-enriched mRNA sequence coding for the human
                                          tumour antigen Survivin

                                               68
              MAGE-C1(G/C):             GC-enriched mRNA sequence coding for the human
                                        tumour antigen MAGE-CI
              Within the sequences, the following elements are highlighted: coding region
              (ORF) (capital letters), ag (bold), histoneSL (underlined),    further distinct
 5            sequences tested (italic).
   Figure 6:  shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag (SEQ ID NO: 43).
              By linearization of the original vector at the restriction site immediately
              following the alpha-globin 3'-UTR (ag), mRNA is obtained lacking a poly(A)
10            sequence.
   Figure 7:  shows the mRNA sequence of DpLuc(GC) - ag - A64 (SEQ ID NO: 44).
              By linearization of the original vector at the restriction site immediately
              following the A64 poly(A)-sequence, mRNA is obtained ending with an A64
15            poly(A) sequence.
   Figure 8:  shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - histoneSL (SEQ ID NO: 45).
              The A64 poly(A) sequence was replaced by a histoneSL. The histone stem-loop
              sequence used in the examples was obtained from Cakmakci et al. (2008).
20            Molecular and Cellular Biology, 28(3), 1182-1194.
   Figure 9:  shows the mRNA sequence of DpLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - histoneSL (SEQ ID NO:
              46).
              The histoneSL was appended 3' of A64 poly(A).
25
   Figure 10: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A 120 (SEQ ID NO: 47).
              The A64 poly(A) sequence was replaced by an A 120 poly(A) sequence.
   Figure 11: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - ag (SEQ ID NO: 48). A
30            second alpha-globin 3'-UTR was appended 3' of A64 poly(A).
   Figure 12: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - aCPSL (SEQ ID NO: 49).
              A stem loop was appended 3' of A64 poly(A). The stem loop has been selected
              from a library for its specific binding of the aCP-2KL protein (Thisted et al.,
35            (2001), The Journal of Biological Chemistry, 276(20), 17484-17496). aCP-2KL is
              an isoform of aCP-2, the most strongly expressed aCP protein (alpha-globin

                                               69
              mRNA poly(C) binding protein) (Makeyev et al., (2000), Genomics, 67(3), 301
              316), a group of RNA binding proteins, which bind to the alpha-globin 3'-UTR
              (Chkheidze et al., (1999), Molecular and Cellular Biology, 19(7), 4572-4 58 1).
 5 Figure 13: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - PolioCL (SEQ ID NO:
              50).
              The   5' clover leaf from Polio virus genomic RNA was appended 3' of A64
              poly(A).
10 Figure 14: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - G30 (SEQ ID NO: 5i)
              A stretch of 30 guanylates was appended 3' of A64 poly(A).
   Figure 15: shows the mRNA sequence of DpLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - U30 (SEQ ID NO: 52)
              A stretch of 30 uridylates was appended 3' of A64 poly(A).
15
   Figure 16: shows the mRNA sequence of ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - SL (SEQ ID NO: 53)
              A stem loop was appended 3' of A64 poly(A). The upper part of the stem and the
              loop were taken from (Babendure et al., (2006), RNA (New York, N.Y.), 12(5),
              851-861). The stem loop consists of a 17 base pair long, CG-rich stem and a 6
20            base long loop.
   Figure 17: shows   ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 - N32 (SEQ ID NO: 54)
              By linearization of the original vector at an alternative restriction site, mRNA is
              obtained with 32 additional nucleotides following poly(A).
25
   Figure 18: shows the mRNA sequence of NY-ESO-i(GC) - ag - A64 -C30 (SEQ ID NO:
              55)
   Figure 19: shows the mRNA sequence of NY-ESO-I(GC) - ag - A64 -C30                  - histoneSL
30            (SEQ ID NO: 56)
   Figure 20: shows the mRNA sequence of Survivin(GC) - ag - A64 -C30 - histoneSL (SEQ
              ID NO: 57)

                                                 70
   Figure 21: shows the mRNA sequence of MAGE-CI(GC) - ag - A64 - C30 - histoneSL
              (SEQ ID NO: 58)
   Figure 22: shows that the combination          of poly(A) and histoneSL increases       protein
 5            expression from mRNA in a synergistic manner.
              The effect of poly(A) sequence, histoneSL, and the combination of poly(A) and
              histoneSL on luciferase expression from mRNA was examined. Therefore
              different mRNAs were electroporated into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels were
              measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours after transfection. Little luciferase is expressed
10            from mRNA having neither poly(A) sequence nor histoneSL. Both a poly(A)
              sequence or the histoneSL increase the luciferase level. Strikingly however, the
              combination of poly(A) and histoneSL further strongly increases the luciferase
              level, manifold above the level observed with either of the individual elements,
              thus acting synergistically. Data are graphed as mean RLU  SD (relative light
15            units  standard deviation) for triplicate transfections.         Specific RLU are
              summarized in Example 14.2.
   Figure 23: shows that the combination          of poly(A) and histoneSL increases       protein
              expression from mRNA irrespective of their order.
20            The effect of poly(A) sequence, histoneSL, the combination of poly(A) and
              histoneSL, and their order on luciferase expression from mRNA was examined.
              Therefore different mRNAs were lipofected into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels
              were measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours after the start of transfection. Both an A64
              poly(A) sequence or the histoneSL give rise to comparable luciferase levels.
25            Increasing the length of the poly(A) sequence from A64 to A120 or to Asoo
              increases the luciferase level moderately. In contrast, the combination of poly(A)
              and histoneSL increases the luciferase level much further than lengthening of the
              poly(A) sequence. The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL acts synergistically
              as it increases the luciferase level manifold above the level observed with either of
30            the individual elements. The synergistic effect of the combination of poly(A) and
              histoneSL is seen irrespective of the order of poly(A) and histoneSL and
              irrespective of the length of poly(A) with A64-histoneSL or histoneSL-A250
              mRNA. Data are graphed as mean RLU  SD for triplicate transfections. Specific
              RLU are summarized in Example 14.3.
35

                                               71
   Figure 24: shows that the rise in protein expression by the combination of poly(A) and
              histoneSL is specific.
              The effect of combining poly(A) and histoneSL or poly(A) and alternative
              sequences on luciferase expression from mRNA was examined. Therefore
 5            different mRNAs were electroporated into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels were
              measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours after transfection. Both a poly(A) sequence or the
              histoneSL give rise to comparable luciferase levels. The combination of poly(A)
              and histoneSL strongly increases the luciferase level, manifold above the level
              observed with either of the individual elements, thus acting synergistically. In
10            contrast, combining poly(A) with any of the other sequences is without effect on
              the luciferase level compared to mRNA containing only a poly(A) sequence.
              Thus,    the  combination    of poly(A)    and   histoneSL   acts  specifically  and
              synergistically. Data are graphed as mean RLU  SD for triplicate transfections.
              Specific RLU are summarized in Example 14.4.
15
   Figure 25: shows that the combination         of poly(A) and histoneSL increases         protein
              expression from mRNA in a synergistic manner in vivo.
              The effect of poly(A) sequence, histoneSL, and the combination of poly(A) and
              histoneSL on luciferase expression from mRNA in vivo was examined. Therefore
20            different mRNAs were injected intradermally into mice. Mice were sacrificed 16
              hours after injection and Luciferase levels at the injection sites were measured.
              Luciferase is expressed from mRNA having either a histoneSL or a poly(A)
              sequence. Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL strongly
              increases the luciferase level, manifold above the level observed with either of the
25            individual elements, thus acting synergistically. Data are graphed as mean RLU
               SEM (relative light units  standard error of mean). Specific RLU are
              summarized in Example 14.5.
   Figure 26: shows that the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases NY-ESO-1
30            protein expression from mRNA.
              The effect of poly(A) sequence and the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on
              NY-ESO-1 expression from mRNA was examined. Therefore different mRNAs
              were electroporated into HeLa cells. NY-ESO-1 levels were measured at 24
              hours after transfection by flow cytometry. NY-ESO-1 is expressed from mRNA
35            having only a poly(A) sequence. Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A)
              and histoneSL strongly increases the NY-ESO-1 level, manifold above the level

                                               72
              observed with only a poly(A) sequence. Data are graphed as counts against
              fluorescence intensity. Median fluorescence intensities (MFI) are summarized in
              Example 14.6.
 5 Figure 27: shows that the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases the level of
              antibodies elicited by vaccination with mRNA.
              The effect of poly(A) sequence and the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on
              the induction of anti NY-ESO-1 antibodies elicited by vaccination with mRNA
              was examined. Therefore C57BL/6 mice were vaccinated intradermally with
10            different mRNAs complexed with protamine. The level of NY-ESO-i-specific
              antibodies in vaccinated and control mice was analyzed by ELISA with serial
              dilutions of sera. Anti NY-ESO-1 IgG2a~b] is induced by mRNA having only a
              poly(A) sequence. Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL
              strongly increases the anti NY-ESO-1 IgG2ab] level, manifold above the level
15            observed with only a poly(A) sequence. Data are graphed as mean endpoint titers.
              Mean endpoint titers are summarized in Example 14.7.

                                                    73
   Examples:
   The following Examples are intended to illustrate the invention further and shall not be
   construed to limit the present invention thereto.
 5
   1.      Generation of histone-stem-loop consensus sequences
           Prior to the experiments, histone stem-loop consensus sequences were determined on the
           basis of metazoan and protozoan histone stem-loop sequences. Sequences were taken
           from the supplement provided by Lopez et al. (Divila L6pez, M., & Samuelsson, T.
10         (2008), RNA (New York, N.Y.), 14(1), 1-10. doi:10.1261/rna.782308), who identified a
           large number of natural histone stem-loop sequences by searching genomic sequences
           and expressed sequence tags. First, all sequences from metazoa and protozoa (4001
           sequences), or all sequences from protozoa (1,31 sequences) or alternatively from metazoa
           (3870 sequences), or from vertebrates (1333 sequences) or from humans (84 sequences)
15         were grouped and aligned. Then, the quantity of the occurring nucleotides was
           determined for every position. Based on the tables thus obtained, consensus sequences for
           the  5 different groups of sequences were generated representing all nucleotides present
           in the sequences analyzed. In addition, more restrictive consensus sequences were also
           obtained, increasingly emphasizing conserved nucleotides
20
   2.      Preparation of DNA-templates
           A vector for in vitro transcription was constructed containing a T7 promoter followed by
           a GC-enriched sequence coding for Photinus pyralis luciferase (ppLuc(GC)), the center
           part of the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of alpha-globin (ag), and a poly(A) sequence.
25         The poly(A)      sequence was     immediately   followed  by a restriction   site used for
           linearization of the vector before in vitro transcription in order to obtain mRNA ending
           in an A64 poly(A) sequence. mRNA obtained from this vector accordingly by in vitro
           transcription is designated as ,,ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64".
30         Linearization of this vector at alternative restriction sites before in vitro transcription
           allowed to obtain mRNA either extended by additional nucleotides 3' of A64 or lacking
           A64. In addition, the original vector was modified to include alternative sequences. In
           summary, the following mRNAs were              obtained from these vectors      by in vitro
           transcription (mRNA sequences are given in Figures 6 to 17):
35

                                               74
      ppLuc(GC) - ag                                          (SEQ ID NO: 43)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64                                    (SEQ ID NO: 44)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   histoneSL                            (SEQ ID NO:   45)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - histoneSL                      (SEQ ID NO:   46)
 5    ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A 120                                (SEQ ID NO:   47)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - ag                             (SEQ ID NO:   48)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - aCPSL                          (SEQ ID NO:   49)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - PolioCL                        (SEQ ID NO:   50)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - G30                            (SEQ ID NO:   5 1)
10    ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - U30                            (SEQ ID NO: 52)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - SL                             (SEQ ID NO: 53)
      ppLuc(GC) - ag -   A64 - N32                            (SEQ ID NO: 54)
      Furthermore DNA plasmid sequences coding for the tumour antigens NY-ESO-I,
15    Survivin and MAGE-C 1 were prepared accordingly as described above.
      In summary, the following mRNAs were obtained from these vectors by in vitro
      transcription (mRNA sequences are given in Figures 18 to 21):
      NY-ESO- 1(GC) - ag - A62 - C30                          (SEQ ID NO: 55)
20    NY-ESO- 1(GC) - ag - A62 - C30 - histoneSL              (SEQ ID NO: 56)
      Survivin(GC) - ag - A62 - C30 - histoneSL               (SEQ ID NO: 57)
      MAGE-C I(GC) - ag - A64       - C30 - histoneSL         (SEQ ID NO: 58)
   S. In vitro transcription
25    The DNA-template according to Example 2 was linearized and transcribed in vitro using
      T7-Polymerase. The DNA-template was then digested by DNase-treatment. All mRNA
      transcripts contained a   5'-CAP structure obtained by adding an excess of N7-Methyl
      Guanosine-'-Triphosphate- '-Guanosine        to the transcription  reaction. mRNA thus
      obtained was purified and resuspended in water.
30
   4. Enzymatic adenylation of mRNA
      Two mRNAs were enzymatically adenylated:
      ppLuc(GC) - ag - A64 and ppLuc(GC) - ag - histoneSL.
      To this end, RNA was incubated with E. coli Poly(A)-polymerase and ATP (Poly(A)
35    Polymerase    Tailing Kit, Epicentre, Madison,      USA)   following  the manufacturer's
      instructions. mRNA with extended poly(A) sequence was purified and resuspended in
      water. The     length   of the poly(A)     sequence  was   determined    via agarose gel
      electrophoresis. Starting mRNAs were extended by approximately 250 adenylates, the
      mRNAs obtained are designated as

                                              75
      ppLuc(GC) - ag - A300 and ppLuc(GC) - ag - histoneSL - A250, respectively.
   5. Luciferase expression by mRNA electroporation
 5    HeLa cells were trypsinized and washed in opti-MEM. 1x105 cells in 200 pl of opti
      MEM each were electroporated with       0.5 pg of ppLuc-encoding mRNA. As a control,
      mRNA not coding for ppLuc was electroporated separately. Electroporated cells were
      seeded in 24-well plates in 1 ml of RPMI        1640 medium. 6, 24, or 48 hours after
      transfection, medium was aspirated and cells were lysed in 200 pl of lysis buffer (25 mM
10    Tris, pH 7.5 (HCI), 2 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 2 mM DTT, 1 mM
      PMSF). Lysates were stored at -20 0 C until ppLuc activity was measured.
   6. Luciferase expression by mRNA lipofection
                                                                         4
      HeLa cells were seeded in 96 well plates at a density of 2x10        cells per well. The
15    following day, cells were washed in opti-MEM and then transfected with 0.2.5 pg of
      Lipofectin-complexed    ppLuc-encoding mRNA in 150 pl of opti-MEM. As a control,
      mRNA not coding for ppLuc was lipofected separately. In some wells, opti-MEM was
      aspirated and cells were lysed in 200 pl of lysis buffer 6 hours after the start of
      transfection. In the remaining wells, opti-MEM was exchanged for RPMI 1640 medium
20    at that time. In these wells, medium was aspirated and cells were lysed in 200 pl of lysis
      buffer 24 or 48 hours after the start of transfection. Lysates were stored at -20 0 C until
      ppLuc activity was measured.
   7. Luciferase measurement
25    ppLuc activity was measured as relative light units (RLU) in a BioTek SynergyHT plate
      reader at  5 seconds measuring time using 50 pl of lysate and 200 1dof luciferin buffer (25
      mM Glycylglycin, pH 7.8 (NaOH), 15 mM MgSO 4 , 2 mM ATP, 7.5                 tM luciferin).
      Specific RLU were calculated by subtracting RLU of the control RNA from total RLU.
30 8. Luciferase expression by intradermal mRNA injection (Luciferase expression in
      vivo)
      Mice were anaesthetized with a mixture of Rompun and Ketavet. Each ppLuc-encoding
      mRNA was injected intradermally (0.5 ig of mRNA in 50 pl per injection). As a control,
      mRNA not coding for ppLuc was injected separately. 16 hours after injection, mice were
35    sacrificed and tissue collected. Tissue samples were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and

                                                76
       lysed in a tissue lyser (Qiagen) in 800 41 of lysis buffer (25 mM Tris, pH 7.5 (HCI), 2 mM
       EDTA, 10% glycerol, 1% Triton X-100, 2 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF). Subsequently
       samples were centrifuged at 13500 rpm at 4 0 C for 10 minutes. Lysates were stored at
         0
       SO  C until ppLuc activity was measured (see 7. luciferase measurement).
 5
   9.  NY-ESO-1 expression by mRNA electroporation
       HeLa cells were trypsinized and washed in opti-MEM. 2x10 3 cells in 200 p1 of opti
       MEM were electroporated with 10 pg of NY-ESO- i-encoding mRNA. Cells from three
       electroporations were combined and seeded in a 6-well plate in 2 ml of RPMI 1640
10     medium. 24 hours after transfection, cells were harvested and transferred into a 96 well
       V-bottom plate (2 wells per mRNA). Cells were washed with phosphate buffered saline
       (PBS) and permeabilized with 200 pl per well of Cytofix/Cytoperm (Becton Dickinson
       (BD)). After 15 minutes, cells were washed with PermWash (BD). Then, cells were
       incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with either mouse anti-NY-ESO-1 IgGi or an
15     isotype control (20 gg/ml). Cells were washed twice with PermWash again. Next, cells
       were incubated for 1 hour at 4 0 C with a 1:500 dilution of Alexa-647 coupled goat-anti
       mouse IgG. Finally, cells were washed twice with PermWash. Cells were resuspended in
       200 pl of buffer (PBS, 2% FCS, 2 mM EDTA, 0.01% sodium azide). NY-ESO-i
       expression was quantified by flow cytometry as median fluorescence intensity (MFI).
20
   10. Induction of anti NY-ESO-1 antibodies by vaccination with mRNA
       C57BL/6      mice   were vaccinated    intradermally     with  NY-ESO-I-encoding     mRNA
25     complexed with protamine (5 times in 14 days). Control mice were treated with buffer.
       The level of NY-ESO-1-specific antibodies in vaccinated and control mice was analyzed 8
       days after the last vaccination by ELISA: 96 well ELISA plates (Nunc) were coated with
        100 pl per well of 10 pg/ml recombinant NY-ESO-1 protein for 16 hours at 4 0 C. Plates
       were washed two times with wash buffer (PBS, 0.0.5% Tween-20). To block unspecific
30     binding, plates were then incubated for 2 hours at 37 0 C with blocking buffer (PBS, o.o5%
       Tween-20, 1% BSA). After blocking, 100 pl per well of serially diluted mouse sera were
       added and incubated for 4 hours at room temperature. Plates were then washed three
       times with wash buffer. Next, 100 pl per well of biotinylated rat anti-mouse IgG2a~b]
       detection antibody (BD Biosciences) diluted 1:600 in blocking buffer was allowed to bind
35     for 1 hour at room temperature. Plates were washed again three times with wash buffer,
       followed by incubation for 30 minutes at room temperature with 100 p1 per well of

                                                77
       horseradish peroxidase-coupled streptavidin. After four washes with wash buffer, 100 tl
       per well of 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (Thermo Scientific) was added. Upon the
       resulting change in color 100 pl per well of 20% sulfuric acid was added. Absorbance was
       measured at 405 nm.
 5
   11. Induction of anti Survivin antibodies by vaccination with mRNA
       C57BL/6 mice were vaccinated intradermally with Survivin-encoding mRNA complexed
       with protamine (5 times in 14 days). Control mice were treated with buffer. The level of
10     Survivin-specific antibodies in vaccinated and control mice was analyzed 8 days after the
       last vaccination by ELISA: 96 well ELISA plates (Nunc) were coated with 100 pl per
       well of 10 ptg/ml recombinant Survivin protein for 16 hours at 4 0 C. Plates were washed
       two times with wash buffer (PBS, 0.05% Tween-20). To block unspecific binding, plates
       were then incubated for 2 hours at 37 0 C with blocking buffer (PBS, 0.05% Tween-20, 1%
15     BSA). After blocking, 100 pl per well of serially diluted mouse sera were added and
       incubated for 4 hours at room temperature. Plates were then washed three times with
       wash buffer. Next, 100 pl per well of biotinylated rat anti-mouse IgG2a~b] detection
       antibody (BD Biosciences) diluted 1:600 in blocking buffer was allowed to bind for 1 hour
       at room temperature. Plates were washed again three times with wash buffer, followed
20     by incubation for 30 minutes at room temperature with 100 pl per well of horseradish
       peroxidase-coupled streptavidin. After four washes with wash buffer, 100 pl per well of
       3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (Thermo Scientific) was added. Upon the resulting change
       in color 100 pl per well of 20% sulfuric acid was added. Absorbance was measured at 405
       nm.
25
   12. Induction of anti MAGE-C 1 antibodies by vaccination with mRNA
       C57BL/6      mice  were vaccinated    intradermally   with   MAGE-C 1-encoding mRNA
       complexed with protamine (5 times in 14 days). Control mice were treated with buffer.
30     The level of MAGE-C1-specific antibodies in vaccinated and control mice was analyzed 8
       days after the last vaccination by ELISA: 96 well ELISA plates (Nunc) were coated with
       100 pl per well of 10 pg/ml recombinant MAGE-Ci protein for 16 hours at 4 0 C. Plates
       were washed two times with wash buffer (PBS, 0.0.5% Tween-20). To block unspecific
       binding, plates were then incubated for 2 hours at 37 0 C with blocking buffer (PBS, 0.05%
35     Tween-20, 1% BSA). After blocking, 100 pl per well of serially diluted mouse sera were

                                                 78
        added and incubated for 4 hours at room temperature. Plates were then washed three
        times with wash buffer. Next, 100 pl per well of biotinylated rat anti-mouse IgG2a~b]
        detection antibody (BD Biosciences) diluted 1:600 in blocking buffer was allowed to bind
        for 1 hour at room temperature. Plates were washed again three times with wash buffer,
 5      followed by incubation for 30 minutes at room temperature with 100 pl per well of
        horseradish peroxidase-coupled streptavidin. After four washes with wash buffer, 100 pi
        per well of 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (Thermo Scientific) was added. Upon the
        resulting change in color 100 pl per well of 20% sulfuric acid was added. Absorbance was
        measured at 405 nm.
10
   is.  Detection of an antigen-specific         cellular   immune response (T          cell immune
        response) by ELISPOT:
        C57BL/6     mice    are  vaccinated  intradermally    with   MAGE-C1        encoding mRNA
        complexed with protamine (5 times in 14 days). Control mice are treated with buffer. 1
15      week after the last vaccination mice are sacrificed, the spleens are removed and the
        splenocytes are isolated. The splenocytes are restimulated for 7 days in the presence of
        peptides from the above antigen (peptide library) or coincubated with dendritic cells
        generated from bone marrow cells of native syngeneic mice, which are electroporated
        with mRNA coding for the antigen. To determine an antigen-specific cellular immune
20      response INFgamma secretion was measured after re-stimulation. For detection of
        INFgamma a coat multiscreen plate (Millipore) is incubated overnight with coating
        buffer 0.1 M carbonate-bicarbonate buffer pH 9.6, 10.59 g/l Na2COS, 8.4g/l NaHCOs)
        comprising antibody against INFy (BD Pharmingen, Heidelberg, Germany). Stimulators
        and effector cells are incubated together in the plate in the ratio of 1:20 for 24h. The plate
25      is washed with ixPBS and incubated with a biotin-coupled secondary antibody. After
        washing    with   1xPBS/0.05% Tween-20         the substrate    (5-Bromo-4-Cloro-3-Indolyl
        Phosphate/Nitro      Blue Tetrazolium Liquid Substrate System from Sigma Aldrich,
        Taufkirchen, Germany) is added to the plate and the conversion of the substrate could be
        detected visually.
30
   14.  RESULTS
   14.1 Histone stem-loop sequences:
        In order to characterize histone stem-loop sequences, sequences from metazoa and
35      protozoa (4001 sequences), or from protozoa (1,31         sequences) or alternatively from

                                                                    79
             metazoa (3870 sequences), or from vertebrates (1333 sequences) or from humans (84
             sequences) were grouped and aligned. Then, the quantity of the occurring nucleotides
             was determined for every position. Based on the tables thus obtained, consensus
             sequences for the 5 different groups of sequences were generated representing all
 5           nucleotides present in the sequences analyzed. Within the consensus sequence of metazoa
             and protozoa combined, 3 nucleotides are conserved, a T/U in the loop and a G and a C
             in the stem, forming a base pair. Structurally, typically a 6 base-pair stem and a loop of 4
             nucleotides is formed. However, deviating structures are common: Of 84 human histone
             stem-loops, two contain a stem of only 5 nucleotides comprising 4 base-pairs and one
10           mismatch. Another human histone stem-loop contains a stem of only 5 base-pairs. Four
             more human histone stem-loops contain a 6 nucleotide long stem, but include one
             mismatch at three different positions, respectively. Furthermore, four human histone
             stem-loops contain            one wobble          base-pair        at two different positions, respectively.
             Concerning the loop, a length of 4 nucleotides seems not to be strictly required, as a loop
15           of 5 nucleotides has been identified in D. discoideum.
             In addition to the consensus sequences representing all nucleotides present in the
             sequences       analyzed,        more      restrictive       consensus         sequences          were       also     obtained,
             increasingly emphasizing conserved nucleotides. In summary, the following sequences
20           were obtained:
             (Cons):   represents     all nucleotides present
             (99%):    represents      at least 99% of all nucleotides present
             (95%):    represents      at least 95% of all nucleotides present
             (90%):    represents      at least 90% of all nucleotides present
25
             The results of the analysis of histone stem-loop sequences are summarized in the
             following Tables 1 to 5 (see also Fig. 1 to 5):
             Table 1: Metazoan and protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence: (based on an
30           alignment of 4001 metazoan and protozoan histone stem-loop sequences) see also Fig. 1
    # A 2224 1586 1075 2872 1284 184    0    13   12    9   1   47     59    0   675 3818 195  1596   523    0    14 3727   61   771  20122499
    # T  172   188 47   205  19    6    0   569 1620 199  3947 1830  3704  4001  182    1  21    15    11    0   179   8    64   557  201  690
    # C 1557 2211 87   918  2675 270    0  1394 2    1781
                                                      .42  51   119   227    0  114)   7   50    31    16  4001 1541  154      387)
                                                                                                                                 2616 1744 674
    # G   25    16  4    6   21  1541 4001   25   27   10   2    5     11    0    4   175 173  ,   39 45 1   0   265  112    4    37   41  138
   Co-   N*    N    N    N   N    N    G     N    N    N   N     N     N     T    N    N    N    N     N     C    N    N     N    N        N*
   99%     W   H*   H    H   V    V    G     Y    Y    Y   Y     H     H     T    H    R    V    V     R     C    B    V     H    H    N   N*
   9,-   'W    H\  M     H   M    S    G     Y         Y   T     T     Y          M    A    R    R     R     C    S   M      C    H        H*
   g0%    \V   N*  N M       M    S    G     Y    Y    CT     T     T     T       M    A    G    R     R     CS        A     C    H*   M   H*

                                                                           80
             Table 2: Protozoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence: (based on an alignment of 131
             protozoan histone stem-loop sequences) (see also Fig. 2)
   # A   52     32    71    82   76     13   0     12   12   9     1   46    3    0     75    82   53    79  20     0    4    94     17   35     74   56
   # T   20     32    37    21    8     3    0    21   85   58    86   70   65   131   28      1   17    13  10     0    15    7    31    32     20   28
   # C   45     59    20    25   38     0    0     86   8   54    42    13  58    0    27      2   6    31   10   131   112    5    82     58    30   40
   # G   14      8     3     3    9    115  131    12  26    10   2     2    5    0      1    46   55    8   91     0    0    25     1     6     7     7
   Cons N       N*    N     N     N     1)   G     N    N    N    N     N    N    T     N     N    N     N   N     C     H     N     N    N*    N*    N*
   99% N*       N*    N     N     N     1)   G     N    N    N    B     N    N    T     H     V    N     N   N     C     H     N    H     N*    N*    N*
   95% N*       N*    H     H    N      R    G     N    N    N    Y     H    B    T     H     R    1)    N   N     C     Y     1)    H    H*    N*    N*
   90% N*       H*    H     H     V     R    G     N    1)   B    Y     H    YT         H     R    1)    H   N     C     Y     R     H    H*    H*    H*
             Table 3: Metazoan histone stem-loop consensus sequence: (based on an alignment of
 5           3870 (including 1333 vertebrate sequences) metazoan histone stem-loop sequences) (see
             also Fig. 3)
   # A 2172 1554 3004 2790 1208 171          0     1    0    0    0      1  56    0   600 3736 142      1517 503    0    10  361    44    736   1938 2443
   #T   152    156    10   184   11     3    0   548  1535 141  3861 3760 369 3870 154         0    4     2    1    0   164     1   33    525   181  662
   # C 15 12 2152 855      893  2617 270     0   3308 2334 3729   9    106  169   0   3113     5   44     0   6   3870 3431   149  3788 2578 1714 614
   # G   11     8     1     3    14   3426 3870   1     1    0    0     3    6    0     3    129 3680 2351 13360    0   265   87     3     31    36   131
   Cons N*     N*     N     N    N     N    G     N    B    Y     Y     N    N    T     N     V    N     1)   N     C    N     N     N    N*    N*    N*
   99%  H*     H*     NI    H    NI    V    G     Y    Y    Y     T'    Y    H    T'    H     R    V     R    R     C    B     V    NI    H*    H*    N*
   95%  M*     M*     M     M    M     S    G     Y    Y    C     T     T    Y    T    M      A    G     R    R     C    S    M      C    H*    H*    H*
   90"  M*M           M     M    M     S    G     Y    Y    C     T     T    T    T    M      A    G     R    R     C    S     A     C    H*    M*    H*
10
             Table 4: Vertebrate histone stem-loop consensus sequence: (based on an alignment of
             1333 vertebrate histone stem-loop sequences) (see also Fig. 4)
   # A  661    146   1315 1323 920     8    0      1    0    0    0      1    4    0   441   1333   0   1199  21     0     1  1126   26     81   380 960
   #T    61    121    2     2     6    2    0     39  1217   2   1331 1329 1207 1333    30     0    1     0    1     0     2     1   22     91    91   12
   # C  601    1062   16    6   403     1   0    1293  116 1331   2      0   121   0   862     0    2     0    0   1333 1328   128 1284 1143 834 361
   # G   8      4     0     2     4   1322 1333 10      0    0)      1   3     1   0)      1   0 1 301i  134 1311  10      2    78     1     18   28   0
   Cons N*     N*     H     N    N     N    G     H    Y     Y    Y     1)   N     T    H     A     B     R   1)     C    N     N     N     N*   N*H*
   99% H* H           M     A    M     G    G     Y    Y     C    T     T    Y     T    H     A    G      R   R      C    C      V    H     N*   N* M*
   95%   H*H*         A     A    M     G    G     C    Y     C    T     T     Y    T    M      A   G      R   G      C    C      V     C    H*H* M*
   9o% M*      M*     A     A    M     G    G     C    T     C    T     T    T     T    NI     A   G      R   G      C    C     M      C    Y*   M* M*
15
             Table 5: Homo sapiens histone stem-loop consensus sequence: (based on an alignment of
             84 human histone stem-loop sequences) (see also Fig. 5)
    # A   10      17   84    84    76     1    0    1    0    0    0     1    0    0    12    84    0    65   3     0    0    69     5     0     10   64
    # T    8      6      0    0     2     2    0    1   67    0   84    80   81   84     5     0    0     0   0     0    0     0     4    25    24     3
    # C   62     61      0    0     6     0    0   82   17   84    0     0    3    0    67     0    1     0   0    84    84    5    75    57    44    17
            #G  4 0      o    o     o    81  84     0    0    0    0     3    0    0     0     0   83    19  81     0    0    10     0   12      6     0

                                                    81
    Cons N*   H*  A   A H  1)   G  H  Y   C  T   1)   Y  T   H  A   S   R  R   C  C  V  H  B*  N* H*
     99% N*   H*  A   A H  1)   G  H  Y   C  T   1)   Y  T   H  A   S   R  R   C  C  V  H  B*  N* H*
     9   H*   H*  A   A M  G    G  C  Y   C  T   T    T  T   H  A   G   R  G   C  C  V  M  Y*  N* M*
     9   H*   M*  A   A A  G    G  C  Y   C  T   T    T  T  M   A   G   R  G   C  C  R  M  Y*  H* M*
 5
            Wherein the used abbreviations were defined as followed:
10
             abbreviation   Nucleotide bases        remark
                   G        G                       Guanine
                   A        A                       Adenine
                   T        T                       Thymine
                   U        U                       Uracile
                    C       C                       Cytosine
                   R        G or A                  Purine
                   Y        T/U or C                Pyrimidine
                   M        AorC                    Amino
                   K        G or T/U                Keto
                    S       G or C                  Strong (3H bonds)
                  W         A or T/U                Weak (2H bonds)
                   H        A or C or T/U           Not G
                    B       GorT/UorC               Not A
                   V        GorCorA                 Not T/U
                   D        GorAorT/U               Not C
                   N        G or C or T/U or A      Any base
                    *       present or not          Base may be present or not
   14.2    The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases protein expression from
           mRNA in a synergistic manner.
           To investigate the effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on protein
15         expression from mRNA, mRNAs with different sequences 3' of the alpha-globin 3'-UTR
           were synthesized: mRNAs either ended just 3' of the 3'-UTR, thus lacking both poly(A)
           sequence and histoneSL, or contained either an A64 poly(A) sequence or a histoneSL
           instead, or both A64 poly(A) and histoneSL 3' of the 3'-UTR. Luciferase-encoding
           mRNAs or control mRNA were electroporated into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels were
20         measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours after transfection (see following Table 6 and Figure 22).
           Table 6:
             mRNA                                    RLU at             RLU at           RLU at
                                                     6 hours           24 hours         48 hours
             ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                  466553              375169           70735

                                                  82
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-histoneSL                        50947            3022                84
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64                              10471           19529             4364
          ppLuc(GC)-ag                                     997            217                42
        Little luciferase was    expressed from mRNA having neither poly(A) sequence         nor
        histoneSL. Both a poly(A) sequence or the histoneSL increased the luciferase level to a
        similar extent. Either mRNA gave rise to a luciferase level much higher than did mRNA
 5      lacking both poly(A) and histoneSL. Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A) and
        histoneSL further strongly increased the luciferase level, manifold above the level
        observed with either of the individual elements. The magnitude of the rise in luciferase
        level due to combining poly(A) and histoneSL in the same mRNA demonstrates that they
        are acting synergistically.
10
        The synergy between poly(A) and histoneSL was quantified by dividing the signal from
        poly(A)-histoneSL mRNA (+/+) by the sum of the signals from histoneSL mRNA (-/+)
        plus poly(A) mRNA (+/-) (see following Table 7).
15      Table 7:
                      A64    histoneSL         RLU at            RLU at            RLU at
                                                6 hours         24 hours          48 hours
                       +           +                 466553          375169              70735
                                   +                  50947             3022                 84
                       +                              10471            19529              4364
          Synergy                                        7.6            16.6               15.9
        The factor thus calculated specifies how much higher the luciferase level from mRNA
        combining poly(A) and histoneSL is than would be expected if the effects of poly(A) and
        histoneSL were purely additive. The luciferase level from mRNA combining poly(A) and
20      histoneSL was up to 16.6 times higher than if their effects were purely additive. This
        result confirms that the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL effects a markedly
        synergistic increase in protein expression.
   14.3 The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases protein expression from
25      mRNA irrespective of their order.
        The effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL might depend on the length of
        the poly(A) sequence     and the order of poly(A) and histoneSL. Thus, mRNAs with
        increasing poly(A) sequence length and mRNA with poly(A) and histoneSL in reversed

                                              83
   order were synthesized: Two mRNAs contained 3' of the 3'-UTR either an A 120 or an
   A300 poly(A) sequence. One further mRNA contained 3' of the 3'-UTR first a histoneSL
   followed by an A250 poly(A) sequence. Luciferase-encoding mRNAs or control mRNA
   were lipofected into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels were measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours
 5 after the start of transfection (see following Table 8 and Figure 23).
   Table 8:
     mRNA                                      RLU at           RLU at             RLU at
                                               6 hours         24 hours           48 hours
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-histoneSL-A250                     98472           734222            146479
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                     123674           317343             89579
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-histoneSL                           7291              4565               916
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-A300                                4357             38560            11829
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-A 120                               4371             45929            10142
     ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64                                 1928             26781               537
   Both an A64 poly(A) sequence or the histoneSL gave rise to comparable luciferase levels.
10 In agreement with the previous experiment did the combination of A64 and histoneSL
   strongly increase the luciferase level, manifold above the level observed with either of the
   individual elements. The magnitude of the rise in luciferase level due to combining
   poly(A)   and histoneSL in the same           mRNA     demonstrates   that they are   acting
   synergistically. The synergy between A64 and histoneSL was quantified as before based
15 on the luciferase levels of A64-histoneSL, A64, and histoneSL mRNA (see following
   Table 9). The luciferase level from mRNA combining A64 and histoneSL was up to 61.7
   times higher than if the effects of poly(A) and histoneSL were purely additive.
   Table 9:
                    A64         histoneSL         RLU at          RLU at           RLU at
                                                  6 hours        24 hours         48 hours
                      +              +                123674           317343           89579
                                     +                  7291              4565             916
                      +                                 1928            26781              537
     Synergy                                             13.4             10.1            61.7
20
   In contrast, increasing the length of the poly(A) sequence from A64 to A120 or to A300
   increased the luciferase level only moderately (see Table 8 and Figure 19). mRNA with
   the longest poly(A) sequence, A300, was also compared to mRNA in which a poly(A)
   sequence of similar length was combined with the histoneSL, histoneSL-A250. In

                                                  84
        addition to having a long poly(A) sequence, the order of histoneSL and poly(A) is
        reversed in this mRNA relative to A64-histoneSL mRNA. The combination of A250 and
        histoneSL strongly increased the luciferase level, manifold above the level observed with
        either histoneSL or A300. Again, the synergy between A250 and histoneSL was
 5      quantified as before comparing RLU from histoneSL-A250 mRNA to RLU from Asoo
        mRNA plus histoneSL mRNA (see following Table 10). The luciferase level from mRNA
        combining A250 and histoneSL was up to 17.0 times higher than if the effects of poly(A)
        and histoneSL were purely additive.
10      Table 10:
                                    A25o/Asoo         RLU at          RLU at           RLU at
                     histoneSL
                                                      6 hours         24 hours        48 hours
                          +               +                 98472          734222         146479
                          +                                  7291            4565            916
                                          +                  4357           38560          11829
          Synergy                                              8.5            17.0           11.5
        In summary, a highly synergistic effect of the combination of histoneSL and poly(A) on
        protein expression from mRNA has been demonstrated for substantially different lengths
        of poly(A) and irrespective of the order of poly(A) and histoneSL.
15
   14.4 The rise in protein expression by the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL is
        specific
        To investigate whether the effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on protein
        expression from mRNA is specific, mRNAs with alternative sequences in combination
20      with poly(A) were synthesized: These mRNAs contained 3' of A64 one of seven distinct
        sequences,    respectively.   Luciferase-encoding    mRNAs     or   control mRNA     were
        electroporated into HeLa cells. Luciferase levels were measured at 6, 24, and 48 hours
        after transfection (see following Table 11 and Figure 24).
25
        Table 11:
          mRNA                                     RLU at            RLU at           RLU at
                                                   6 hours          24 hours         48 hours
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-N32                           33501            38979             2641
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-SL                            28176            20364               874

                                                 85
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-U30                         41632             54676              3408
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-G30                         46763             49210              3382
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-PolioCL                     46428             26090              1655
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-aCPSL                        34176            53090              3338
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-ag                           18534            18194               989
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                  282677            437543             69292
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-histoneSL                        27597             3171                 0
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64                              14339            48414              9357
        Both a poly(A) sequence or the histoneSL gave rise to comparable luciferase levels.
        Again, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL strongly increased the luciferase level,
        manifold above the level observed with either of the individual elements, thus acting
 5      synergistically. In contrast, combining poly(A) with any of the alternative sequences was
        without effect on the luciferase level compared to mRNA containing only a poly(A)
        sequence. Thus, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases protein expression
        from mRNA in a synergistic manner, and this effect is specific.
10 14.5 The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases protein expression from
        mRNA in a synergistic manner in vivo.
        To investigate the effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on protein
        expression from mRNA in vivo, Luciferase-encoding mRNAs with different sequences 3'
        of the alpha-globin 3'-UTR or control mRNA were injected intradermally into mice:
15      mRNAs contained either an A64 poly(A) sequence or a histoneSL instead, or both A64
        poly(A) and histoneSL 3' of the 3'-UTR. Luciferase levels were measured at 16 hours
        after injection (see following Table 12 and Figure 25).
20
        Table 12:
          mRNA                                    RLU at
                                                  16 hours
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                   38081
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-histoneSL                          137
          ppLuc(GC)-ag-A64                               4607
25

                                                  86
        Luciferase was expressed from mRNA having either a histoneSL or a poly(A) sequence.
        Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL further strongly increased
        the luciferase level, manifold above the level observed with either of the individual
        elements. The magnitude of the rise in luciferase level due to combining poly(A) and
 5      histoneSL in the same mRNA demonstrates that they are acting synergistically.
        The synergy between poly(A) and histoneSL was quantified by dividing the signal from
        poly(A)-histoneSL mRNA (+/+) by the sum of the signals from histoneSL mRNA (-/+)
        plus poly(A) mRNA (+/-) (see following Table is).
10
        Table 13:
                              histoneSL         RLU at
                      A64
                                                16 hours
                       +           +                  38081
                                   +                     137
                       +                               4607
          Synergy                                        8.0
        The factor thus calculated specifies how much higher the luciferase level from mRNA
        combining poly(A) and histoneSL is than would be expected if the effects of poly(A) and
15      histoneSL were purely additive. The luciferase level from mRNA combining poly(A) and
        histoneSL was 8 times higher than if their effects were purely additive. This result
        confirms that the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL effects a markedly synergistic
        increase in protein expression in vivo.
20
   14.6 The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases NY-ESO-1 protein expression
        from mRNA.
25      To investigate the effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on protein
        expression from mRNA, NY-ESO-i-encoding mRNAs with different sequences 3' of the
        alpha-globin   3'-UTR were synthesized: mRNAs contained either an A64 poly(A)
        sequence or both A64 poly(A) and histoneSL 3' of the 3'-UTR. NY-ESO-i-encoding
        mRNAs were electroporated into HeLa cells. NY-ESO-1 levels were measured at 24
30      hours after transfection by flow cytometry (see following Table 14 and Figure 26).

                                                 87
        Table 14:
                                                             MFI at 24 hours
          mRNA                                      anti-NY-ESO-1      isotype control
          NY-ESO- 1(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                      15600                 1831
          NY-ESO-1(GC)-ag-A64                                  1294                  849
        NY-ESO-1      was expressed from mRNA having only a poly(A) sequence. Strikingly
        however, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL strongly increased the NY-ESO-1
 5      level, manifold above the level observed with only a poly(A) sequence.
   14.7 The combination of poly(A) and histoneSL increases the level of antibodies elicited
        by vaccination with mRNA.
        To investigate the effect of the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL on the induction of
10      antibodies   elicited  by vaccination   with  mRNA,    C57BL/6     mice were     vaccinated
        intradermally with protamine-complexed, NY-ESO- i-encoding mRNAs with different
        sequences 3' of the alpha-globin 3'-UTR. mRNAs contained either an A64 poly(A)
        sequence or both A64 poly(A) and histoneSL 3' of the 3'-UTR. The level of NY-ESO-1
        specific antibodies in vaccinated and control mice was analyzed by ELISA with serial
15      dilutions of sera (see following Table 15 and Figure 27).
        Table 15:
          mRNA                                      mean IgG2a[b] endpoint titer
          NY-ESO- 1(GC)-ag-A64-histoneSL                                        763
          NY-ESO- 1(GC)-ag-A64                                                   20
        Anti NY-ESO-i IgG2a~b] was induced by mRNA having only a poly(A) sequence.
20      Strikingly however, the combination of poly(A) and histoneSL strongly increased the
        anti NY-ESO-i IgG2ab] level, manifold above the level observed with only a poly(A)
        sequence.

                                                 88
                                               Claims
    1. Nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
       a)     a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein;
 5     b)    at least one histone stem-loop, and
       c)     a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
       wherein said peptide or protein comprises a tumour antigen a fragment, variant or
       derivative of said tumour antigen.
10 2.  The nucleic acid sequence according to claim 1, wherein the tumour antigen is a
       melanocyte-specific     antigen, a cancer-testis  antigen or a tumour-specific    antigen,
       preferably a CT-X antigen, a non-X CT-antigen, a binding partner for a CT-X antigen
       or a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour-specific antigen, more
       preferably a CT-X antigen, a binding partner for a non-X CT-antigen or a tumour
15     specific antigen or a fragment, variant or derivative of said tumour antigen.
   3.  The nucleic acid sequence according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the tumour antigen is
       selected from the list of:
       5T4, 707-AP, 9D7, AFP, AlbZIP HPGi, alpha-5-beta-1-integrin, alpha-5-beta-6
20     integrin,     alpha-actinin-4/m,    alpha-methylacyl-coenzyme     A    racemase,  ART-4,
       ARTCi/m, B7H4, BAGE-1,            BCL-2, bcr/abl, beta-catenin/m, BING-4, BRCAi/m,
       BRCA2/m, CA 15-3/CA 27-29, CA 19-9, CA72-4, CA125, calreticulin, CAMEL, CASP
       8/m, cathepsin B, cathepsin L, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CDE3o, CD33, CD4, CD.52,
       CD55, CD.56,      CD8o, CDC27/m, CDK4/m, CDKN2A/m, CEA, CLCA2, CML28,
25     CML66, COA-i/m, coactosin-like protein, collage XXIII, COX-2, CT-9/BRD6, Cten,
       cyclin BI, cyclin DI, cyp-B, CYPBi, DAM-i,             DAM-6, DEK-CAN,        EFTUD2/m,
       EGFR, ELF2/m, EMMPRIN, EpCam, EphA2, EphA3, ErbB3, ETV6-AMLi, EZH2,
       FGF-5, FN, Frau-1, G25o, GAGE-i, GAGE-2, GAGE-3, GAGE-4, GAGE-5, GAGE-6,
       GAGE7b, GAGE-8, GDEP, GnT-V,                gpioo, GPC3, GPNMB/m, HAGE, HAST-2,
30     hepsin,    Her2/neu, HERV-K-MEL,          HLA-A*O201-Ri7I,      HLA-Aii/m,     HLA-A2/m,
       HNE, homeobox NKX3.1, HOM-TES-14/SCP-i, HOM-TES-85, HPV-E6, HPV-E7,
       HSP70-2M, HST-2, hTERT, iCE, IGF-iR, IL-i3Ra2, IL-2R, IL-5, immature laminin
       receptor, kallikrein-2, kallikrein-4, Ki67, KIAA0205, KIAA0205/m, KK-LC-1, K-Ras/m,
       LAGE-Ai, LDLR-FUT, MAGE-Ai, MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A6,
35     MAGE-A9, MAGE-Aio, MAGE-A12, MAGE-Bi, MAGE-B2, MAGE-B3, MAGE-B4,
       MAGE-B5, MAGE-B6, MAGE-B i o, MAGE-B 16, MAGE-B 17, MAGE-C i, MAGE-C2,

                                               89
      MAGE-C3, MAGE-Di, MAGE-D2, MAGE-D4, MAGE-Ei, MAGE-E2, MAGE-Fi,
      MAGE-Hi, MAGEL2, mammaglobin A, MART-1/melan-A, MART-2, MART-2/m,
      matrix protein 22, MCiR, M-CSF, ME1/m, mesothelin, MG50/PXDN, MMP11,
      MN/CA IX-antigen, MRP-3, MUC-1, MUC-2, MUM-1/m, MUM-2/m, MUM-3/m,
 5    myosin class I/m, NA88-A, N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase-V, Neo-PAP, Neo-PAP/m,
      NFYC/m, NGEP, NMP22, NPM/ALK, N-Ras/m, NSE, NY-ESO-B, OAi, OFA-iLRP,
      OGT, OGT/m, OS-9, OS-9/m, osteocalcin, osteopontin, pI5, p190 minor bcr-abl, p5 3 ,
      ps3/m, PAGE-4, PAI-i, PAI-2, PAP, PART-i, PATE, PDEF, Pim-1-Kinase, Pin-1,
      Pml/PARalpha, POTE, PRAME,              PRDX5/m, prostein, proteinase-3,       PSA, PSCA,
10    PSGR, PSM, PSMA, PTPRK/m, RAGE-1, RBAF600/m, RHAMM/CD168, RUi, RU2,
      S-ioo, SAGE, SART-i, SART-2, SART-3, SCC, SIRT2/m, Sp17, SSX-i, SSX-2/HOM
      MEL-40, SSX-4, STAMP-i, STEAP-i, survivin, survivin-2B, SYT-SSX-i, SYT-SSX-2,
      TA-90, TAG-72, TARP, TEL-AMLi, TGFbeta, TGFbetaRII, TGM-4, TPI/m, TRAG
      3, TRG, TRP-i, TRP-2/6b, TRP/INT2, TRP-p8, tyrosinase, UPA, VEGFRi, VEGFR
15    2/FLK-i, WTI and a immunoglobulin idiotype of a lymphoid blood cell or a T cell
      receptor idiotype of a lymphoid blood cell, or a fragment, variant or derivative of said
      tumour antigen; preferably survivin or a homologue thereof, an antigen from the
      MAGE-family or a binding partner thereof or a fragment, variant or derivative of said
      tumour antigen.
20
   4. The nucleic acid according to claims I to 3, wherein the at least one histone stem loop is
      heterologous to the coding region encoding the at least one peptide or protein,
      preferably, wherein the coding region does not encode a histone protein or fragment,
      derivate of variant thereof having histone or histone-like function.
25
   5. The nucleic acid according to claims I or 4, wherein the peptide or protein encoded by
      the coding region comprises a tumour antigenic protein or a fragment, variant or
      derivative thereof, the fragment, variant or derivative of the tumour antigenic protein
      retaining at least .50%of the biological activity of the tumour antigenic protein.
30
   6. The nucleic acid of any of claims I to 5, wherein its coding region does not encode a
      reporter protein or a marker or selection protein.
   7. Nucleic acid sequence according to any of claims I to 6, wherein the nucleic acid is an
35    RNA, preferably an mRNA.

                                               90
   8. Nucleic acid sequence according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the at least one histone
      stem-loop is selected from following formulae (I) or (II):
      formula (I) (stem-loop sequence without stem bordering elements):
 5
                 [No-2 GNs3 _] [No_4(U/T)No_ 4] [Ns3_CNo-2 ]
10                     stem               loop               stem2
      formula (II) (stem-loop sequence with stem bordering elements):
              N 1 -6 [NO2 GN 3 _] [NO_4(U/T)NO_ 4] [Ns3 _CNO2 ] N1-6
15            stem         stem                loop               stem2        stem2
      bordering element                                                  bordering element
      wherein:
20    stem 1 or stem2 bordering elements    N1 6      is   a  consecutive    sequence   of  1 to    6,
                                                      preferably of 2 to 6, more preferably of 2 to
                                                       5, even more preferably of 3 to 5, most
                                                      preferably of 4 to 5 or  5 N, wherein each N is
                                                      independently from another selected from a
25                                                    nucleotide selected from A, U, T, G and C,
                                                      or a nucleotide analogue thereof;
      stem   [No-2 GN13 -]        is reverse complementary or partially reverse complementary
                                  with element stem2, and is a consecutive sequence between of
                                  5 to 7 nucleotides;
30
                                  wherein N112 is a consecutive sequence of 0 to 2, preferably of
                                  0 to     1, more preferably    of 1 N,     wherein each N      is
                                  independently    from another     selected   from a nucleotide

                                       91
                          selected from A, U, T, G and C or a nucleotide analogue
                          thereof;
                          wherein N>5, is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5, preferably of
 5                        4 to 5,    more preferably        of 4 N,     wherein each N     is
                          independently    from another        selected  from a nucleotide
                          selected from A, U, T, G and C or a nucleotide analogue
                          thereof, and
10                        wherein G is guanosine or an analogue thereof, and may be
                          optionally replaced by a cytidine or an analogue thereof,
                          provided that its complementary nucleotide cytidine in stem2
                          is replaced by guanosine;
15 loop sequence [No 4 (U/T)No_4]              is located between elements stem          and
                                       stem2, and is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5
                                       nucleotides, more preferably of 4 nucleotides;
                                       wherein each N-    4  is independent from another a
20                                     consecutive sequence of 0 to 4, preferably of 1 to
                                       3, more preferably of 1 to 2 N, wherein each N is
                                       independently    from      another   selected from a
                                       nucleotide selected from A, U, T, G and C or a
                                       nucleotide analogue thereof; and
25
                                       wherein U/T represents uridine, or optionally
                                       thymidine;
   stem2  [Ns_5CNo_2]     is reverse complementary or partially reverse complementary
                          with element stem, and is a consecutive sequence between of
30                        5 to 7 nucleotides;
                          wherein N>5, is a consecutive sequence of 3 to 5, preferably of
                          4 to 5,    more preferably        of 4 N,     wherein each N     is
                          independently    from another        selected  from a nucleotide

                                                      92
                                         selected from A, U, T, G and C or a nucleotide analogue
                                         thereof;
                                         wherein N,,, is a consecutive sequence of 0 to 2, preferably of
 5                                       0 to    1, more preferably    of 1 N,      wherein each N    is
                                         independently   from another      selected  from a nucleotide
                                         selected from A, U, T, G and C or a nucleotide analogue
                                         thereof; and
10                                       wherein C is cytidine or an analogue thereof, and may be
                                         optionally replaced by a guanosine or an analogue thereof
                                         provided that its complementary nucleotide guanosine in
                                         stem is replaced by cytidine;
           wherein
15         stem and stem2 are capable of base pairing with each other
           forming a reverse complementary sequence, wherein base pairing may occur between
           stem 1 and stem2, or
           forming a partially reverse complementary sequence, wherein an incomplete base pairing
           may occur between stem 1 and stem2.
20
   9.      The nucleic acid according to claim 8 wherein the at least one histone stem-loop is
           selected from at least one of following formulae (Ia) or (Ila):
                  [No_1 GNs3 _] [N 1_(U/T)No-  3              2 ] [Ns3_CNo_1]
                       stem 1                loop               stem2
                    formula (Ia) (stem-loop sequence without stem bordering elements)
            N 2 -5 [No_1 GN,3_] [N 1_3(U/T)N 2 ] [Ns_CNo_1 ] N 2 -5
           stem          stem                loop               stem2          stem2
      bordering element                                                  bordering element
                      formula (Ila) (stem-loop sequence with stem bordering elements)

                                                 93
   10. The nucleic acid sequence according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the poly(A)
       sequence comprises a sequence of about 25 to about 400 adenosine nucleotides, preferably
       a sequence of about 50 to about 400 adenosine nucleotides, more preferably a sequence of
       about 50 to about 300 adenosine nucleotides, even more preferably a sequence of about
 5     50 to about 250 adenosine nucleotides, most preferably a sequence of about 60 to about
       250 adenosine nucleotides.
   11. Nucleic acid sequence according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the polyadenylation
       signal comprises the consensus sequence NN(U/T)ANA,             preferably AA(U/T)AAA   or
10     A(U/T)(U/T)AAA.
   12. Nucleic acid sequence according to any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the nucleic acid
       sequence is a modified nucleic acid, in particular a stabilized nucleic acid.
15 13. Nucleic acid sequence according to claim 12, wherein the G/C content of the coding
       region encoding at least one peptide or protein of said modified nucleic acid is increased
       compared with the G/C content of the coding region of the wild-type nucleic acid, the
       coded amino acid sequence of said modified nucleic acid preferably not being modified
       compared with the coded amino acid sequence of the wild-type nucleic acid.
20
   14. A composition comprising at least one type of nucleic acid sequences according to any of
       claims 1 to 13.
   15. The composition according to claim 14, wherein the composition comprises at least two
25     types of nucleic acid sequences wherein each type of nucleic acid sequence encodes for a
       different peptide or protein, preferably for a different tumour antigen.
   16. The composition according to claim 14 or claim 1.5, wherein one type of the contained
       nucleic acid sequences encodes for PSA, PSMA, PSCA, STEAP-i, NY-ESO-i,                5T4,
30     Survivin, MAGE-CI, or MAGE-C2.
   17. The composition according to any of claims 14 to 16, wherein the nucleic acid sequence
       does not encode for NY-ESO1, provided that the composition contains only one type of
       nucleic acid sequence.
35

                                                 94
   18.  A kit or kit of parts comprising at least one, preferably a plurality or more than one of
        nucleic acid sequences each according to any of claims 1 to 13.
   19.  The composition or kit or kit of parts according to any of claims 14 to 18, comprising at
 5      least:
        a)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 13 wherein said encoded peptide or
             protein comprises the tumour antigen PSA, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof; and
        b)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 1,3 wherein said encoded peptide or
10           protein comprises the tumour antigen PSMA, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof; and
        c)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 13 wherein said encoded peptide or
             protein comprises the tumour antigen PSCA, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof; and
15      d)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 1,3 wherein said encoded peptide or
             protein comprises the tumour antigen STEAP-1, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof.
   20.  A composition or kit or kit of parts according to any of claims 14 to 18, comprising at
20      least:
        a)   a nucleic acid sequence comprising or coding for
                 i.   a coding region, encoding at least one peptide or protein which comprises the
                      tumour antigen NY-ESO-1, or a fragment, variant or derivative thereof,
                 ii. at least one histone stem-loop, and
25               iii. a poly(A) sequence or a polyadenylation signal;
        b)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 1,3 wherein said encoded peptide or
             protein comprises the tumour antigen 5T4, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof; and
        c)   a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 13 wherein said encoded peptide or
30           protein comprises the tumour antigen Survivin, or a fragment, variant or derivative
             thereof.
    21. The composition or kit or kit of parts according to any of claims 11 to 17, further
        comprising at least:

                                                  95
       a)  a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 13 wherein said encoded peptide or
           protein comprises the tumour antigen MAGE-C1,               or a fragment, variant or
           derivative thereof; and
       b)  a nucleic acid sequence of any of claims 1 to 1,3 wherein said encoded peptide or
 5         protein comprises the tumour antigen MAGE-C2, or a fragment, variant or
           derivative thereof.
   22. Nucleic acid sequence as defined according to any of claims 1 to 13 or composition or kit
       or kit of parts as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21 for use as a medicament.
10
   23. Nucleic acid sequence as defined according to any of claims 1 to 13 or composition or kit
       or kit of parts as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21 for use in the treatment of
       cancer or tumour diseases.
15 24. Pharmaceutical composition comprising a nucleic acid sequence as defined according to
       any of claims 1 to 13 or a composition as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21 and
       optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   25. Use of a nucleic acid sequence as defined according to any of claims 1 to 13 or a
20     composition or kit or kit of parts as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21 for
       increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein.
   26. Use of a nucleic acid sequence as defined according to any of claims 1 to 13 or
       composition or kit or kit of parts as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21 for
25     increasing the expression of said encoded peptide or protein in the treatment of cancer or
       tumour diseases.
   27. A method for increasing the expression of an encoded peptide or protein comprising the
       steps:
30     a)       providing the nucleic acid sequence as defined according to any of claims 1 to 13
                or the composition as defined according to any of claims 14 to 21,
       b)       applying or administering the nucleic acid sequence or the composition to a cell
                free expression system, a cell, a tissue or an organism.
35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
