                                    ABSTRACT
      A placement apparatus (3) comprising a body 500; a connector (502)
 proximate to a first end of the body (500) and adapted to selectively engage
and disengage an intracorporeal apparatus (1); a first interface (504) proximate
a second end of the body operably connected to the connector (502) to control
said connector (502) to engage and disengage the intracorporeal apparatus
(1); and a second interface (510) proximate the second end adapted to deliver
mechanical energy from the placement apparatus (3) to the intracorporeal
apparatus (1).

1/19
     u.

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
                     MAGNARETRACTOR SYSTEM AND METHOD
                                        Field of Invention
[0001]          The present invention is directed generally to surgical apparatus, systems and
methods for use in subjects including humans and animals, and to apparatus, systems and
methods of manipulating objects within the body of a subject when performing laparoscopy.
                                    Background of Invention
[0002]          When performing laparoscopic surgery in a body cavity such as the abdomen,
the number of surgical instruments which can be manipulated in the abdomen is limited by
the number of abdominal ports incised. Accordingly, the number of organs and tissues the
surgeon can manipulate simultaneously is limited by the number of instruments in place.
[0003]          In a standard laparoscopy for endometriosis, for example, a camera is placed
through the umbilical port, and two lower quadrant ports are made for use with instruments.
In order to access, excise or fulgurate endometriosis deep in the pelvis or behind an ovary, the
ovary must be retracted. An instrument is inserted into one port and used for the purpose of
grasping and retracting the ovary. It is often difficult to control the ovary with the grasper,
often resulting in unwanted and uncontrolled movement of the ovary. With the camera
inserted through the umbilical port and the grasper inserted through a second port, there is
only one port left available to the surgeon. Since there is only one port available, the process
of fulgurating or excising the endometrial implants is thereby made more difficult, because in
order to avoid damaging the underlying tissues, the peritoneum must be tented up. The
surgeon must tent the peritoneum and fulgurate or excise the endometrial implants with a
single instrument, or alternatively, incise one or more additional ports. The addition of
operating instruments then will require the surgeon to relinquish control of the grasper since
only two instruments can be manipulated at one time.
[0004]          However, additional ports and instruments are not desirable for many reasons.
Every additional port requires an accompanying abdominal incision, which pierces the
peritoneum and abdominal muscles, and increases the risk of striking a blood vessel and
infection. Furthermore, each incision carries cosmetic implications for the patient, as a
visible scar may be formed.
                                               - 1-

    WO 2009/070743                                                            PCT/US2008/084991
[00051            In addition to the problem of adding ports to allow additional instruments into
the abdominal cavity, there is a problem of limited workspace within the abdominal cavity.
As more instruments are introduced into the abdomen, the area can become congested. With
this congestion, instruments may inadvertently block or bump into each other, making the
procedure more difficult for the surgeon and increasing the risk for the patient.
[00061            For example, in a laparoscopic hysterectomy, it is often difficult to retract the
uterus in the beneficial manner possible in an open abdominal hysterectomy. In an open
abdominal hysterectomy, a cork screw tool is often placed in the fundus of the uterus and
used for upward traction in order to decrease bleeding. The traction on the uterus also makes
it easier to access the lateral sides of the uterus and suture and ligate the uterine arteries and
cardinal ligaments. To do this laparoscopically, the surgeon must try and place an extra port
and use a grasper to retract the uterus - often a very difficult task. Additionally, the extra
grasper often causes instrument clutter with the other instruments being used to carry out the
dissection.
[00071            Furthermore, the surgeon is physically limited to controlling two instruments
at a time, i.e., one instrument per hand. If it is elected to use an additional instrument to
perform a function such as retraction of an ovary or manipulation of the uterus, the surgeon
will encounter the problem of not being able to manipulate all of the instruments
simultaneously.
[00081            In light of these problems, it would be desirable to have a laparoscopic system
whereby a surgeon might retract and manipulate intra-abdominal organs and objects without
the necessity of placing extra ports, as well as having the ability to gain better control over
organs and perform functions currently not possible laparoscopically. It would also be
desirable to have a system whereby a surgeon might manipulate intra-abdominal organs and
objects without the added congestion of the abdominal cavity associated with the introduction
of additional intra-abdominal instruments.
                                      Summary of the Invention
[0009]            The present invention is a laparoscopic surgical method and system using
magnetic fields such as those produced by magnets and tools responsive to these magnetic
fields to allow a surgeon to retract and control intra-abdominal organs and objects without the
necessity of having to place additional items in the abdominal cavity.
                                                  -2-

    WO 2009/070743                                                        PCT/US2008/084991
[0010]          The system uses various fasteners such as screws, loops, clips, clamps etc., to
attach to objects and organs within the body. These fasteners are capable of being influenced
or manipulated in three-dimensional space, directly or indirectly, by a magnetic or
electromagnetic field, to allow the surgeon to control intra-abdominal organs and objects
without placing additional abdominal ports. The fasteners are then detached from the long
tool used to place them into the abdomen. Then, an apparatus containing a magnetic field
source, such as a magnet or electromagnet, is placed on the outside of the abdomen. The
magnetic field produced by this apparatus is used to manipulate the fasteners attached to the
objects or organs inside the abdomen, allowing the surgeon to retract or position the object
around the abdomen without the use of an intra-abdominal instrument or placing additional
ports.
                               Brief Description of the Drawings
[0011]          The present invention will be understood and appreciated more fully from the
following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the drawings in which:
[0012]      Figure 1 is an embodiment of an intracorporeal, extracorporeal and placement
apparatuses;
[0013]      Figure 2A is an embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus;
[0014]      Figure 2B is an embodiment of a magnetically responsive portion of an
intracorporeal apparatus;
[0015]      Figure 2C is an embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus, wherein the design
provides for reuse of magnetic material;
[0016]      Figure 2D is an alternative embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus with a
screw mechanism, for conversion into rotational energy;
[0017]      Figure 2E is alternative embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus with a loop
mechanism for placement of objects;
                                              -3 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                        PCT/US2008/084991
[0018]      Figure 2F is an alternative embodiment of an intracorporeal with a large loop
mechanism;
[0019]      Figure 3A is a detailed embodiment of a placement apparatus;
[0020]      Figure 3B is an embodiment of a placement apparatus engaging an intracorporeal
apparatus;
[0021]      Figure 3C is an alternative embodiment of a placement apparatus utilizing
magnetic energy;
[0022]      Figure 3D is an alternative embodiment of a placement apparatus utilizing
electromagnetic energy;
[0023]      Figure 3E is an alternative embodiment of a placement apparatus attached to an
electromagnetic energy source;
[0024]      Figure 3F is an alternative embodiment of a placement apparatus with an interface
to generate rotational energy;
[0025]      Figure 3G is an alternative embodiment of a placement apparatus, wherein
permanent magnets used in the device may be placed in a resealable chamber;
[0026]      Figure 3H is a topical view of a connector engaged with an intracorporeal
apparatus;
[0027]      Figure 4A is an embodiment of a magnetically energized extracorporeal
apparatus;
[0028]      Figure 4B is an alternative embodiment of an extracorporeal apparatus containing
a movable magnet mechanism;
                                              -4-

    WO 2009/070743                                                          PCT/US2008/084991
[0029]       Figure 4C is an alternative embodiment of an extracorporeal apparatus utilizing
electromagnetic energy; and
[0030]       Figure 4D is an alternative embodiment of an adhesively anchored extracorporeal
apparatus.
                             Detailed Description of the Invention
[0031]          The present invention provides laparoscopic surgeons a system and method to
allow the surgeon to retract and manipulate intra-abdominal organs and objects without
placing extra ports. Furthermore, the present invention allows the surgeon to maintain
increased control over his instruments due to increased space in the body cavity.
[0032]          In a preferred embodiment, the system of the invention performs its functions
with three classes of magnaretractor apparatuses working together - the intracorporeal
apparatus 1, extracorporeal apparatus 2, and placement apparatus 3. See FIG. 1
[0033]          The intracorporeal apparatuses are the set of tools that are used to attach to an
object or tissue inside a patient's body. They are designed to interact with the placement
apparatus to place it in the correct position inside the body, an extracorporeal apparatus to
manipulate it from outside the body, and the object or tissue the surgeon wishes to
manipulate. FIG. 2 shows a preferred embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus. The
preferred embodiment comprises a body 100 of some shape such as a narrow shaft at least in
one cross section having a size no greater than a trocar. This is necessary as the
intracorporeal apparatus in its preferred method of use will be passed through a trocar port
into the patient's body. At one end 102 of the intracorporeal apparatus body, the apparatus is
adapted to attach to an object or tissue. At the opposing end 104 of the body, the apparatus is
adapted to engage with a placement apparatus.
[0034]          The intracorporeal apparatuses are designed to both physically engage the
placement apparatus, and respond to energy from an extracorporeal apparatus. A preferred
embodiment accomplishes this by using magnets 120 disposed in one end 104 of the
intracorporeal apparatus opposite the fastener end 414. To aid in engaging a placement
apparatus, the magnet attracts an end of the placement apparatus containing a material
attracted to the magnet. When the end of the placement apparatus is drawn near the end of
the intracorporeal apparatus containing the magnet, the two apparatuses are attracted. If there
is no impeding material located between the placement and intracorporeal apparatuses, the
                                                -5 -

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
two apparatuses will contact and stick to each other, end to end. Advantageously, the
magnetic end 104 of the intracorporeal apparatus is rounded to align axially with the
placement apparatus. This alignment is imperative to allow the surgeon to retract both the
placement and intracorporeal apparatuses through the trocar as well as to allow the interfaces
of the placement apparatus to correctly engage the mating nodes of the intracorporeal
apparatus. To further aid engaging and aligning the intracorporeal apparatus to the placement
apparatus, grooves or ridges 108 are placed on the end 104 of the intracorporeal apparatus to
match the grooves or ridges 108 placed on the end of the placement apparatus. When the two
apparatuses are pulled proximate to each other by their magnetic attraction, the grooves and
ridges force the two apparatuses to align with the end of the placement apparatus slightly
overlapping the end of the intracorporeal apparatus, and forming a tight connection.
[00351           In a similar alternative embodiment shown in FIG. 2B, a portion of the body
100 of the intracorporeal apparatus is made of a material responsive to magnetic energy, and
the magnet is instead disposed in the end of the placement apparatus. With this embodiment,
the magnet on the placement apparatus may be a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. The
function performed by this reversed embodiment is identical to the function as described
above.
[0036]           As with all medical devices, sterilization is a key consideration. Typically,
sterilization of medical equipment is performed using an autoclave, which amongst other
things, heats the equipment to a temperature higher than any germ can withstand to kill any
germs present. Unfortunately, some embodiments of the present invention utilize permanent
magnets, which when heated near a certain temperature known as the Curie temperature, will
permanently lose their magnetism. Therefore, special consideration in design and use must
be made to ensure that the tools are both sterile and properly magnetized. The simplest
procedure to ensure correct magnetization is to use a new device with a fresh magnet for each
surgery. Alternatively, magnets may be employed having Curie temperatures well in excess
of sterilization temperatures. Other embodiments of the invention are designed to
accommodate reuse.
[00371           One such embodiment of the intracorporeal apparatus is shown in FIG. 2C and
is designed to permit reusing the magnet, but allowing the choice of disposing the rest. In
this embodiment, the body 100 is at least partially covered by a sterile plastic shell. The body
100 has a resealable chamber 140 proximate the end 104 which engages the placement
apparatus, wherein the permanent magnet 120 is placed. In the preferred embodiment, the
chamber is formed by a cap 142 over a hollows 146 in the body wherein the cap screws or
                                               -6-

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
presses into the rim 144 of the hollows. After a surgery, the surgical team can remove the
magnet 120 from the intracorporeal apparatus, and determine whether to sterilize the rest of
the apparatus or discard it. If the team chooses to sterilize its used intracorporeal apparatuses,
after sterilization, the team may place an available magnet back into the resealable chamber
140 of the now sterile apparatus. The team may also choose to use an unused sterile
intracorporeal apparatus, in which case they may place an available magnet into its resealable
chamber 140 and reseal the chamber, preparing it for surgery. In either method, the magnet
is removed after surgery, and thus never exposed to the destructive heat of an autoclave.
[0038]            Another embodiment of the intracorporeal apparatus is designed around
reusing the entire apparatus. In this embodiment, the body 100 is made of a magnetically
inert metal. Like the previous embodiment, the body of the intracorporeal apparatus has a
resealable chamber 140 proximate the end 104 to house a permanent magnet. Similarly, in
the preferred embodiment, the resealable chamber 140 is formed by a metal 142 cap over a
hollows 146 in the body wherein the cap screws or presses into the rim 144 of the hollows
146. After a surgery, the surgical team can remove the magnet 120 from the intracorporeal
apparatus, and then sterilize this embodiment of the apparatus in an autoclave. To prepare for
a surgery, the surgical team may use either an unused intracorporeal apparatus or an
intracorporeal apparatus that has been autoclaved, perfecting preparation for surgery by
placing an available magnet into the resealable chamber 140 and resealing the chamber.
Using this embodiment and method, because the magnet was removed after surgery, it is
never exposed to the destructive heat of an autoclave.
[0039]            Known methods of sterilization not involving heating may, of course, be
conveniently employed to sterilize the apparatus of the invention.
[0040]            This structure forms the platform for nearly limitless types of attachments and
fasteners to be constructed for the surgeon's use. Such conceived attachments include
screws, loops, clips, clamps, and the like. A screw may be useful for piercing and driving
into a thick or muscular organ, such as a uterus, to gain appropriate traction to operate. The
screw embodiment of the intracorporeal apparatus shown in FIG. 2D may have a port 106 on
its end 104 to receive a type of energy and convert it into rotational energy. The surgeon
using this embodiment may use the rotation of the screw 210 to drive the intracorporeal
apparatus into the tissue which it is desired to manipulate.
[0041]            In a preferred embodiment of the screw intracorporeal apparatus, a matching
placement apparatus 3 has an interface such as a rotatable knob 220 on the portion of the
placement apparatus that remains outside the patient's body. Twisting the knob 220
                                                 -7-

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
manipulates a shaft 230 which connects to a node 240 at the end of the placement apparatus.
This node engages a second mating node 250 on the screw intracorporeal apparatus. The
second node 250 is in turn mechanically connected to the screw 210 by an axle 260, which is
adapted to rotate independently from the body 100. Therefore, twisting the knob 220 on the
placement apparatus rotates the screw 210 on the intracorporeal apparatus. The length of the
screw 210 may be varied in order to obtain the optimal distance between the body part which
it is desired to manipulate and the abdominal wall. Another embodiment includes a non
human powered drive in the placement apparatus to drive the shaft 230 and cause the screw
210 to rotate at a higher power than a human can exert without strain.
[0042]           Another embodiment of an intracorporeal apparatus, shown in FIGS. 2E and
2F is in the form of a loop. The loop embodiment may be used to attach to an object by
placing the loop around the object, tightening the loop and capturing the object. The loop can
later be loosened to release the object when finished.
[0043]           In a preferred embodiment of the loop intracorporeal apparatus, a matching
placement apparatus 3 has an interface such as a lever, button, or trigger 320 on the portion of
the body that remains outside the patient's body. This trigger 320 drives a shaft 330 which
connects to a node 340 at the first end of the body. This node engages a second mating node
350 on the loop intracorporeal apparatus. This node 350 is in turn mechanically connected to
one or both ends of the loop 300 such that as the node 350 moves towards the loop, the loop
opens, and as the node moves away from the loop, the loop closes. Therefore, the loop opens
and closes in response to the surgeon moving the trigger 320 on the placement apparatus
outside the patient's body.
[0044]           An additional feature is a locking mechanism which maintains the tightened
loop when the intracorporeal apparatus is not engaged with a placement apparatus. The
mating node 350 on the intracorporeal apparatus is tensioned with a spring 360. This spring
pushes the mating node away from the loop, thus holding the loop closed. However, when
engaged with a placement apparatus, the surgeon's pressure on the trigger 320 can easily
overcome the spring, forcing the loop to open.
[00451           Inside the intracorporeal apparatus, the loop 300 is actuated by moving pulleys
310 and stationary pulleys 315. Moving pulleys 310 are mounted on a piston 130. The loop
300 is threaded between moving pulleys 310 and stationary pulleys 315 as shown in FIG. 2E.
When the mating node 350 is pushed towards the loop, piston 130 and moving pulleys 310
advance toward the stationary pulleys 315. As shown in FIG. 2F, this shortens the internal
path loop 300 must take within body 100, allowing more of the loop to extend outside body
                                                -8-

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
100. When the mating node 350 is pushed towards the end 104, piston 130 and moving
pulleys 310 return back to their extended position as shown in FIG. 2E. As shown in FIG.
2E, this lengthens the internal path loop 300 must take within body 100, causing less of the
loop to extend outside the body 100. When force is removed from mating node 350, spring
360 causes piston 130 and mating pulleys 310 to return to this long-path state.
[00461          A third embodiment of the intracorporeal apparatus is a clip mechanism. The
clip embodiment can be used to attach a surgical clip to an object proximate the end of the
clip intracorporeal apparatus while retracting the object, and leaving the clip in place. In a
preferred embodiment of the clip intracorporeal apparatus, a matching placement apparatus
has an interface such as a lever, button, or trigger on the portion of the apparatus that remains
outside the patient's body. This trigger drives a shaft which connects to a node at the end of
the apparatus. This node engages a second mating node on the clip intracorporeal apparatus.
The second node is in turn mechanically connected by a piston 130 such that as the node
moves toward the clip, the clip is expelled from the clip intracorporeal apparatus and closes
permanently on the object. Therefore, the clip is closed about an object in response to the
surgeon moving the trigger on the placement apparatus outside the patient's body.
[00471          A fourth embodiment of the intracorporeal apparatus is a clamp. The clamp
embodiment can be used to form a simple attachment to an object whereby the surgeon opens
the clamp and closes it around an object, to maintain its position. The clamp can later be
opened to release the object.
[0048]          In a preferred embodiment of the clamp intracorporeal apparatus, shown in
FIG. 2A, a matching placement apparatus 3 has an interface such as a lever, button, or trigger
420 on the portion of the apparatus that remains outside the patient's body. This trigger 420
manipulates a shaft 430 which connects to a node 440 at the end of the apparatus. This node
440 engages a second mating node 450 on the clamp intracorporeal apparatus. The second
node 450 is in turn mechanically connected by a piston 130 to one or both sides of the clamp
410 such that as the node 450 moves towards the clamp, the clamp opens, and as the node
moves away from the clamp, the clamp closes. Therefore, the clamp opens and closes in
response to the surgeon moving the trigger 420 on the placement apparatus outside the
patient's body. An additional feature is the locking mechanism which holds the clamp tight
when the intracorporeal apparatus is not engaged with a placement apparatus. The mating
node 450 on the intracorporeal apparatus is spring tensioned by use of the clamp 410. The
clamp is preferably constructed of a single rigid material that when at rest will close down its
tines 414 to a point. For additional grip, the teeth 418 may be disposed near the end of one or
                                                -9-

    WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
both tines 414. The tines are connected to each other by a flexible filament 416 which is
thread through the body 100 across pulleys 418. The piston 130 is in physical contact with
the filament 416 inside the body 100. The spring function of the tines 414 keeps the filament
416 in a taut position. This taut filament 416 pushes against the piston 130 away from the
clamp. However, when engaged with a placement apparatus, the surgeon's pressure on
trigger 420 can easily overcome the tension placed on the filaments by the tines 414. This
pressure forces mating node 450 and piston 130 to move towards the clamp 410, stretching
filament 416. As pressure is applied to the filament 416, the tines 414 are forced to open.
[0049]          The placement apparatuses are the tools that are used to physically position the
intracorporeal apparatuses inside the patient's body and cause them to attach to objects. The
preferred embodiment, shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, comprises a body 500 having some
shape with some length at least in one cross section having a size no greater than a trocar
being of a length which would allow it to access distant areas within the body and allow the
surgeon to comfortably operate the portion of the apparatus remaining outside the patient's
body.
[00501          The preferred embodiment further comprises a connector 502 disposed on the
end of the body that is placed through the trocar into the patient's body. This connector is
adapted to engage and disengage any of numerous intracorporeal apparatuses 1. The
connector is controlled by an engagement interface near the end of the body that remains
outside the body during surgery. This engagement interface can be a button, an electrical
connection to an external device or, most preferably, an engagement lever 504 that slides in
the direction along the body's length, and is mechanically attached by a shaft 506 to the
connector 502 at the far end of the body 500. When the engagement lever 504 is moved
closer to the far end, the connector 502 moves with the engagement lever to capture and
engage with an intracorporeal apparatus 1. When the lever is moved away from the far end,
the connector moves with the lever to disengage and release an intracorporeal apparatus.
[00511          The preferred embodiment also comprises another interface near the end of the
body that remains outside of the patient's body. This action interface transmits mechanical
energy from the surgeon or another source outside the body to an intracorporeal apparatus if
engaged to the placement apparatus. The preferred embodiment for the action interface is a
lever in the form of a trigger 510 which is spring loaded. The trigger 510 is mechanically
connected to a node 514 at the far end of the body 500 by a shaft 512. This node 514 engages
with a mating node 50 on an intracorporeal apparatus 1, the intracorporeal apparatus then in
                                              - 10-

    WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
turn converts the delivered energy for its uses. The action interface may also be alternatively
an electrical connection to an external device.
[0052]          In order to assist engaging with the preferred embodiment of the
intracorporeal apparatus described above, the placement apparatus must have some
magnetically responsive material to attract the permanent magnet in the intracorporeal
apparatus. The preferred embodiment thus has a mass of magnetically responsive material
525 disposed within the body 500 of the placement apparatus near the end that enters the
patient's body. This magnetically responsive material 525 is mechanically connected to the
connector 502 and moves toward the end when the engagement interface is moved towards
the end. The magnetically responsive material 525 moves away from the end further up the
body 500 when the engagement interface is moved away from the end. As a result, when the
engagement interface is positioned to engage an intracorporeal apparatus, the magnetically
responsive material is most proximate the end of the body, and thus more easily attracted to
the magnet in the intracorporeal apparatus. Furthermore, when the engagement interface is
positioned to disengage from the intracorporeal apparatus, the magnetically responsive
material is pulled away and outside the attractive reach of the intracorporeal apparatus
magnet, thus allowing the two apparatuses to separate.
[0053]          It will be appreciated that any magnetically responsive material may be
utilized in accordance with the teaching of the invention. Presently preferred magnetically
responsive material includes ferrous or iron-containing material, rare-earth containing
materials, and the like. Exemplary magnetic materials are listed in Table 1.
[0054]          In another embodiment, shown in FIGS. 3C and 3D, the placement apparatus
contains a magnet 530 or electromagnet 540 disposed near the end of the body that enters the
patient's body. The magnet 530 attracts the magnetically responsive material in certain
embodiments of the intracorporeal apparatuses, performing the same function in aiding the
surgeon to engage the intracorporeal apparatus inside the patient's body. Similarly to the
preferred embodiment, this magnet 530 may be disposed within the shaft of the body 500 and
mechanically connected to the connector 502. In this way, the magnet 530 moves closer to
the end of the body 500 when the engagement interface is slid towards the end. With the
magnet closer to the end, the placement apparatus will more easily attract the intracorporeal
apparatus. Similarly, the magnet moves into the interior of the body and further from the end
as the engagement interface is slid away from the end. With the magnet further from the end,
the intracorporeal apparatus will be less attracted to the placement apparatus, which will
cause an easy separation.
                                               - 11 -

    WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
[00551           In the case of using an electromagnet 540, the system can take advantage of
controlled temporary magnetism. To engage an intracorporeal apparatus 1, the electromagnet
540 is turned on, and so attracts the magnetically responsive material 120 in a corresponding
intracorporeal apparatus. Similarly, to disengage the intracorporeal apparatus, the
electromagnet 540 is turned off. With slight movement from the surgeon, the intracorporeal
apparatus will no longer be attracted to the placement apparatus, and the two apparatuses may
be separated. To power the electromagnet, a detachable power supply connects to the
placement apparatus near the end that remains outside the patient's body. This power supply
being external to the placement apparatus allows the placement apparatus to be made smaller.
Furthermore, because it is detachable, the surgical team may detach the power supply and
sterilize the placement apparatus in an autoclave as they normally would. When sterile, the
team may then reattach the power supply for use in a subsequent procedure.
[0056]           A preferred embodiment also comprises a third interface near the end of the
body that remains outside of the patient's body. The interface 550 when activated by the
surgeon causes the connector 502 and any object engaged to it to rotate about the axis of the
placement apparatus. Utilizing this embodiment, the surgeon's interface 550 may articulate
an intracorporeal apparatus 1 attached to the placement apparatus in a fashion similar to the
manner in which surgeons currently rotate laparoscopic instruments within a patient's body.
[00571           In embodiments of the placement apparatus containing their own permanent
magnets, a similar situation arises as seen in the intracorporeal apparatuses above involving
sterilization. Typical sterilization in an autoclave may strip the permanent magnets of their
magnetism. To prevent this in embodiments with permanent magnets, such as shown in FIG.
3G, the magnet 530 may be placed in a resealable chamber 560 proximate the end of the body
500 that is passed into the patient's body. In a preferred embodiment, the resealable chamber
is formed by a cap 562 over a hollow in the body wherein the cap presses into the rim of the
hollows. After a surgery, the surgical team can remove the magnet 530 from the placement
apparatus, and sterilize the remainder in an autoclave. In preparation for a subsequent
surgery, the team may take an unused or an autoclaved placement apparatus, place an
available magnet into its resealable chamber, and replace the cap on the chamber, thereby
rendering the placement apparatus ready for utilization in a subsequent surgery.
[0058]           FIG. 3H demonstrates a top view of the connector and its interaction with the
intracorporeal apparatus. To further aid the engagement and alignment of the intracorporeal
apparatus to the placement apparatus, grooves or ridges 108 are placed on the end of the
intracorporeal apparatus to match grooves or ridges 508 on the connector 502. When the two
                                                - 12 -

    WO 2009/070743                                                            PCT/US2008/084991
apparatuses are pulled proximate to each other by their magnetic attraction, the grooves
and/or ridges 108 force the intracorporeal apparatus to align with the grooves and ridges 508
on the connector 502 slightly overlapping the end of the intracorporeal apparatus, and
forming a tight connection. Additionally, the placement apparatus may be fitted with a
moveable or flexible tab 509 mechanically connected to the engagement interface. This tab
509 is adapted to fit within a groove 109 on an intracorporeal apparatus in a mating fashion
when the engagement interface is moved toward the end of the body. Thus, the tab thus locks
the intracorporeal apparatus to the placement apparatus.
[00591            A third major component of this system is the extracorporeal apparatus. This
apparatus may be used to position an intracorporeal apparatus and any object attached to it
within the patient's body. Preferred embodiments of this apparatus comprise a body of some
shape with an affixed handle and preferably a magnet or other source of magnetic energy.
The extracorporeal apparatuses require a magnetic field source that can produce a magnetic
field sufficient to manipulate objects fastened to an intracorporeal apparatus.
[0060]            In the preferred embodiment shown in FIG. 4A, the extracorporeal apparatus
may be shaped like a disk with the magnet 610 contained in the middle of the body 600, away
from the surface. In this embodiment, the body forms a shell around the magnet, comprised
of either a medically inert plastic or a magnetically inert metal or a combination of both
materials. Both materials are suitable to prevent the magnet from coming in direct contact
with the patient's body, but also serve the purpose of protecting the magnet. Many types of
magnets used in the preferred embodiments are so fragile or brittle, that their own attraction
to another magnet can cause the magnet to disintegrate upon contact. In order to preserve the
magnet within, the body surrounding the magnet absorbs some of the energy in the event of
an impact with a hard surface or a corresponding magnaretractor apparatus.
[0061]            For sterilization purposes, the extracorporeal apparatus may be partially
wrapped by a disposable or sterilizable cover 620. As with the placement and intracorporeal
apparatuses, the use of permanent magnets presents a situation wherein the typical method of
sterilization, i.e., use of an autoclave may destroy the magnetic properties of the magnet.
After use in surgery, the surgical team may remove this cover from the extracorporeal
apparatus, and either discard or sterilize it for later use. In preparation for a subsequent
surgery, the team then may simply place a new or sterilized cover on an available
extracorporeal apparatus. In order to ensure that the sterile cover does not separate from the
extracorporeal apparatus during surgery, it is preferred that the cover comprise a form-fitting
boot to frictionally adhere to the body of the extracorporeal apparatus.
                                                 - 13 -

    WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
[00621           An additional method to ensure the extracorporeal apparatus is sterile for a
subsequent surgery is to use an extracorporeal apparatus embodiment having a resealable
magnet chamber. In this embodiment, the resealable chamber 640 resides in the central area
of the apparatus body 600. In the preferred embodiment, the chamber is formed by a cap 642
over a hollows in the body wherein the cap screws or presses into the rim of the hollows.
After a surgery, the surgical team can remove the magnet 610 from the extracorporeal
apparatus 2, and determine whether to sterilize the apparatus or discard it. If the team
chooses to sterilize its used extracorporeal apparatuses, after sterilization, the team may place
an available magnet back into the resealable chamber 640 of the now sterile apparatus. The
team may also choose to use an unused sterile extracorporeal apparatus, in which case they
may place an available magnet into its resealable chamber in preparation for surgery. In
either method, the magnet is never exposed to the destructive heat of an autoclave.
[00631           In all of the above embodiments including a permanent magnet, there are
many choices of magnets available with varying benefits and detriments to each of their
respective uses. The magnets of the extracorporeal apparatuses must be strong enough to
exert sufficient pulling (or pushing) force to permit manipulation of the desired object within
the body cavity from a distance of several centimeters. For example, in performing a
hysterectomy on a fibroid uterus, the magnet pulling an attached intracorporeal apparatus
must reach through as much as 5 centimeters or even more of the patient's body to cause the
uterus to move.
[0064]           While this situation suggests the use of a larger, more powerful magnet, other
considerations require the magnet to be as weak as possible without disrupting function. For
instance, it is very likely that the surgeon will place more than one intracorporeal apparatus
inside the patient's body. An extremely strong magnet may disadvantageously attract both
the intended and an unintended intracorporeal apparatus, as well as any other objects
containing magnetically responsive material in the room. Furthermore, such a strong magnet
will also be physically larger than necessary to perform the procedure, thereby rendering it
too unwieldy to control or anchor. A third consideration is that a very strong magnet will
apply a considerable force to an object attracted to it, which may pinch tissue between the
object and the magnet, with enough force to cause damage to the patient.
[00651           Accordingly, the present invention includes a set of extracorporeal apparatuses
with magnets of varying sizes, shapes and materials, or an adjustable electromagnet. The
first consideration for a surgical team in choosing which type of magnets to use concerns
whether they will reuse the tools, and if so, how they will sterilize them. A surgical team
                                               -  14 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
choosing to discard used extracorporeal apparatuses is only limited in its choice by the
expense of individual magnets, and therefore needs only consider the magnetic strength
required for this particular patient or procedure.
[0066]          Surgical teams that choose to reuse however must consider the Curie
temperature for the magnet they wish to use, and a particular sterilization method. As
mentioned above, using an autoclave may destroy a magnet's magnetism. Therefore, the
team has three options for reuse. The first option is to choose a magnet with a Curie
temperature much higher than their autoclave can generate, such as Samarium-cobalt or
Alnico magnets. With this option, the team may simply place the entire apparatus into the
autoclave as they would any other equipment. For many purposes, this may be an adequate
solution. However, both Samarium-cobalt and Alnico magnets are weaker than Neodymium
magnets, and such strength may be necessary for patients with thick adipose tissue or in
procedures that require manipulation of deeply situated or heavy objects.
[00671          The second option is to choose an extracorporeal apparatus having a
removable magnet in a resealable chamber. With this option, the team removes the magnet
from the apparatus after use. The apparatus then may be placed in the autoclave as the team
typically would to sterilize equipment. After sterilization, the team would then place the
magnet back into the apparatus prior to conducting another surgery. There is no limitation to
the team placing the magnet in the same apparatus, as the magnet may be placed in any
available apparatuses.. This option will work well in any situation, however the surgical
team must take the necessary precautions .
[0068]          The final option is to use permanently positioned magnets within the
apparatus. After use, the surgical team may place the entire extracorporeal apparatus into the
autoclave, without regard to Curie temperatures until sterilization is achieved. Since the
magnet embedded in the apparatus may have been demagnetized, before use, the team must
place the apparatus into a remagnetizer to return the magnet to its full magnetic capabilities.
The team may perform this on-site, or return the apparatus to an appropriate vendor who can
perform a remagnetizing service to re-magnetize the magnets. A preferred embodiment of a
remagnetizer includes a body which physically mates with the extracorporeal apparatus to
hold it in one position during the re-magnetization process. The remagnetizer exposes the
magnet within the magnaretractor apparatus to a high-intensity magnetic field, which causes
the magnet to retain its original magnetic field. This option may similarly be used to sterilize
and re-magnetize intracorporeal and placement apparatuses.
                                               - 15 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
Table 1 - Exemplary magnets and their characteristics
Material              Curie       Characteristics
                      Temp.
Cobalt (Co)            1115 'C    Very high Curie temp.
                                  Low strength
Alnico                800 'C      High Curie temp.
                                  Much weaker than SmCo and NIB magnets
                                  Much stronger than other non-rare earth magnets
Iron (Fe)             770 'C      High Curie temp.
                                  Low strength
Samarium-cobalt 680 to            High Curie temp.
(SmCo)                800 OC      Very high strength
                                  More expensive than NIB magnets
                                  Weaker than NIB magnets
                                  Very brittle
Nickel (Ni)           354 0 C     Low strength
                                  Low Curie temp.
Neodymium             320 0 C     Strongest permanent magnet currently sold commercially
(NdFeB or NIB)                    Less expensive than SmCo magnets
                                  Low Curie temperature
                                  Brittle but less so than SmCo
                                  Highly corrosive
[0069]           While the size and material of the magnet determines its strength, the shape
has an effect on how much the magnetic field "falls off' over distance. For example, a
magnet shaped like a long rod may be strong enough to cause an object weighing 1 kilogram
from one centimeter away to accelerate towards the magnet. This same magnet can only
cause the same acceleration on an object weighing 250 grams from two centimeters away or
40 grams from five centimeters away. In this situation, the strength of the magnetic field is
said to fall off with the square of the distance, giving this magnet a deep reach. Although a
magnet having a different shape may also be able to cause an object weighing 1 kilogram
from one centimeter away to accelerate towards it, however, at two centimeters, it may only
have the capacity to cause the same acceleration on an object weighing 125 grams, and from
five centimeters the magnet may only cause the same acceleration on an object weighing 8
                                                - 16-

    WO 2009/070743                                                            PCT/US2008/084991
grams. In this situation, the strength of the magnetic field is said to fall off with the cube of
the distance , i.e., a shallower reach. Thus, the surgeon will have the option of choosing an
extracorporeal apparatus with a deeper or shallower reach.
[00701           During surgery, the surgeon may use special trocars with graduations to
measure the thickness of the abdominal walls of the patient's body. With that measurement
and the surgeon's knowledge of the approximate weight of the object to be moved, the
surgeon may choose the appropriate extracorporeal apparatus having a magnet of the required
strength amongst the plurality of available apparatuses.
[00711           The extracorporeal apparatus may be fine tuned by disposing the magnet on an
articulable joint. In this embodiment, preferably utilizing a cup shape as shown in FIG. 4B,
the magnet 610 may be moved closer or further away from the patient's body by
manipulating the articulable joint 660. This way, the surgeon may exact greater or lesser
force on an object held by an intracorporeal apparatus within the body. Additionally, the
surgeon may use intracorporeal apparatuses containing its own magnets, which will interact
with the magnet 610 in the extracorporeal apparatus 2. Using the articulable joint 660, the
surgeon may rotate the magnet of the extracorporeal apparatus 660, which would cause the
magnet of the nearby intracorporeal apparatus to rotate in sympathy. The result is that the
surgeon can manipulate the attitude of the object within the patient's body by articulating the
magnet attached to the extracorporeal apparatus.
[0072]           Another embodiment shown in FIG. 4C uses an electromagnet 615 as the
source of magnetic energy. In this embodiment, the strength of the electromagnet's 615
magnetic field is adjustable to allow the surgeon to choose the smallest field required to
position a single intracorporeal apparatus, and not interfere with other apparatuses or other
magnetically responsive objects. A detachable power supply cable 617 provides power to the
electromagnet 615.
[0073]           To ease using the extracorporeal apparatus, the surgeon may lubricate the
surface 670 touching the patient's body to allow it to move more easily, and anchor the
apparatus to the body, the surgical drape, the surgical table, or another fixed object, to
prevent the apparatus from moving once in place.
[0074]           Anchoring the extracorporeal apparatus in a fixed position may also be
accomplished by using an air pump. The preferred embodiments shown in FIGS. 4A, 4B and
4C dispose a port 650 on one side of the extracorporeal apparatus which may be connect to
an air pump. This port allows the surgeon to position the extracorporeal apparatus 2 on the
desired point on the exterior of the patient's body. Then using the air pump, the surgeon may
                                               - 17-

    WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
pump air from beneath port 650, thereby decreasing the pressure between the extracorporeal
apparatus 2 and the patient's body. The resulting pressure differential will gently lock the
extracorporeal apparatus in position on the patient's body. When the surgeon wishes to
remove the apparatus, a release valve on the air pump may be opened, allowing normal
pressure to return to the region between the apparatus and the patient's body, thus unlocking
the apparatus.
[00751          The extracorporeal apparatus may also be anchored to the patient's body by
use of a medical adhesive. A semi-permanent adhesive may be either placed directly on the
bottom surface 670 of the extracorporeal apparatus 2, or alternatively, the adhesive may be
placed around the edge of the extracorporeal apparatus as shown in FIG. 4D. The rim may be
moveable to align with the lower surface 670 of the extracorporeal apparatus 2 when
adhering to the patient's body, or retracted above the lower surface 670 of the extracorporeal
apparatus when not adhering to the patient's body.
[0076]          In a standard laparoscopy for endometriosis, three ports are opened on the
patient's abdomen -- the camera is placed through an umbilical port and two lower quadrant
ports are used for instrumentation. Often, there is endometriosis deep in the pelvis or behind
the ovary. In order to access the endometriosis and excise or fulgurate it, the surgeon must
retract the ovary through one port. The peritoneum must be tented up before the
endometriosis can be excised or fulgurated in order to prevent damaging the underlying
structures.
[00771          With the present invention, the surgeon may start by placing the three ports: a
camera in the umbilical port, and two operative ports in the lower quadrants. The surgeon
then may engage a clamp intracorporeal apparatus to a placement apparatus. Using one of
the operative ports, the surgeon may feed the combination through the trocar into the
patient's body, and place the clamp on the ovary to be retracted. The surgeon then is able to
place an extracorporeal apparatus on the exterior surface of the abdomen. The magnetic field
attracts the clamp and the surgeon is able to guide the ovary towards the extracorporeal
apparatus. The extracorporeal apparatus may be locked into position using an adhesive on
the extracorporeal apparatus rim or an anchor. With the ovary now retracted against the
abdominal wall and maintained by the extracorporeal apparatus, the surgeon is able to
disengage the clamp intracorporeal apparatus from the placement apparatus and retract the
placement apparatus back through the trocar and out of the patient's body. The ovary will
now remain retracted against the interior surface of the anterior abdominal wall, well outside
of the surgical field, and without the inclusion of a large intra-abdominal instrument.
                                               - 18-

    WO 2009/070743                                                            PCT/US2008/084991
Accordingly, the surgeon will only need two intra-abdominal instruments, and may control
all of the instruments in the operative field without assistance. This also beneficially results
in less instrument clutter in the operative field.
[00781           The present invention can also be very beneficial when performing a
laparoscopic hysterectomy. In an open abdominal hysterectomy, a cork screw is often placed
in the fundus of the uterus and used for upward traction in order to decrease bleeding. The
traction on the uterus also makes it much easier to access the lateral sides of the uterus and
suture and ligate the uterine arteries and cardinal ligaments. One of the difficulties in
performing a laparoscopic hysterectomy is that there is no way to retract the uterus in a
similar fashion. It is often difficult to surgically place an extra port and use a grasper to
retract the uterus. The additional grasper often gets in the way of the other intra-abdominal
instruments, which are being used to carry out the dissection. Also, the surgeon is physically
unable to manipulate more than two instruments at a time. Lastly, a surgeon often
experiences difficulty in trying to manipulate the uterus utilizing a grasper.
[00791           The present invention, allows the surgeon the ability to retract the uterus in the
same fashion as if the surgeon were performing an open abdominal hysterectomy. Initially,
the surgeon would engage a screw intracorporeal apparatus with a placement apparatus, and
insert the combination through a trocar into the patient's body. The surgeon is then able to
position the screw and twist it into the fundus of the uterus. An extracorporeal apparatus may
then be placed on the external anterior abdominal wall. The surgeon must choose an
extracorporeal apparatus with a magnet strong enough to attract the muscular and massive
uterus. The screw intracorporeal apparatus and the attached uterus would then be attracted
towards the magnetic field of the extracorporeal apparatus. Accordingly, the extracorporeal
apparatus would essentially provide upwards traction on the uterus similar to an open
abdominal case. Furthermore, the extracorporeal apparatus could be moved laterally as
needed to move the uterus and allow for easy access to the lateral aspects of the uterus and
cervix. With the screw intracorporeal apparatus attached to the uterus, the surgeon may
disengage and retract the placement apparatus through the trocar and out of the patient's
body, thus freeing space within the body for other intra-abdominal instruments.
[0080]           The present invention can also be used to increase performance when
conducting a salpingectomy for a tubal ligation or an ectopic pregnancy. The current
procedure is conducted with use of three ports: an umbilical port for a camera, and two within
which to operate. The procedure requires a surgical assistant to grasp and hold the tube while
the surgeon performs the resection. However the present invention allows the surgeon to
                                                - 19-

    WO 2009/070743                                                          PCT/US2008/084991
perform the procedure without any assistance, and utilizing only two ports: an umbilical port
for the camera, and a superpubic operative port. Initially, the surgeon would begin by
engaging a clamp intracorporeal apparatus to a placement apparatus, and passing the
combination through a trocar into the patient's body. At this point, the surgeon can maneuver
the clamp onto the area of the tube that is to be resected. An extracorporeal apparatus placed
on the external abdominal wall could then be used to retract and grasp the tube. With the
tube retracted, the surgeon may disengage the placement apparatus and retract it through the
trocar and out of the patient's body, thereby freeing up space for a different intra-abdominal
apparatus. Next, a harmonic scalpel or other such device would be used to resect the desired
portion of the tube. Accordingly, the need for an extra port and a surgical assistant is
eliminated. Post-completion of the resection, the surgeon may then reinsert the placement
apparatus through the trocar into the patient's body, and manipulate the clamp intracorporeal
apparatus still attached to the tube. The surgeon is able to then re-engage the placement
apparatus with the intracorporeal apparatus, and release the clamp from the tube. Finally, the
surgeon may remove the resected tube from the abdominal cavity, retract the combination of
the placement apparatus and the clamp through the trocar and seal the ports used in the
surgical procedure.
[0081]           The present invention may also be used to help the surgeon avoid many of the
common complications of laparoscopic surgery. A common complication in laparoscopic
surgery is ureteral damage. Ureteral damage, if not promptly treated, may result in damage to
renal function and possibly loss of the kidney entirely. The present invention prevents
damage to a ureter by the insertion of an intracorporeal apparatus such as a toothless clamp or
a loop to move a ureter away from the surgical field.
[0082]           The present invention may also be used in general surgical procedures. For
example, laparoscopic bariatric surgery can be made more efficient using this invention.
During a laparoscopic bariatric procedure, the surgeon must retract the liver. Presently, this
retractor requires the use of an operative port. The present invention allows the surgeon the
ability to retract the liver without the use of a trocar-occupying instrument. Accordingly, the
surgery could be performed with a reduced number of ports and reduced intra-abdominal
congestion.
[0083]           The present invention may also be used in laparoscopic procedures performed
on animals. For example, laparoscopic surgery routinely performed on baboons may be
carried out more efficiently by means of the present invention. During diagnostic
laparoscopic procedures, it has been discovered that the uterus and ovaries of a baboon are
                                                -20-

    WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
more mobile than those of humans. The present invention enables the surgeon to retract the
uterus or ovaries of a baboon without the use of grasping forceps. This is preferable, because
the use of grasping forceps has been reported to result in slight round ligament bleeding in
some laparoscopic procedures performed on baboons. Laparoscopic surgery is also
performed on other animals, including mammals such as dogs, llamas, alpacas, mares, lions
and cows. The present invention will enable surgeons to accomplish such operations in a
more efficient manner, as in humans.
[0084]            Numerous additional advantages may be realized by those having ordinary
skill in the art, for any situation in which a surgeon has thorough knowledge of regional
anatomy and requires moving internal objects or organs so as to gain access to another object
or organ in the body.
                                                -21 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
What is claimed is:
1. A placement apparatus comprising:
        a body;
        a connector proximate to a first end of the body and adapted to selectively engage
                and disengage an intracorporeal apparatus;
        a first interface proximate a second end of the body operably connected to the
                connector to control said connector to engage and disengage the intracorporeal
                apparatus; and
        a second interface proximate the second end adapted to deliver mechanical energy
                from the placement apparatus to the intracorporeal apparatus.
2. The placement apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a material responsive to magnetic
   energy.
3. The placement apparatus of claim 2
        wherein the first end of the body comprises a shaft;
        the material responsive to magnetic energy is coupled to the first interface; and
        wherein the material responsive to magnetic energy moves within the shaft in
               response to the first interface.
4. The placement apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a magnet proximate the first end
   to assist engaging with the intracorporeal apparatus.
5. The placement apparatus of claim 4
        wherein the first end of the body comprises a shaft;
        the magnet is coupled to the first interface; and
        wherein the magnet moves within the shaft in response to the first interface.
6. The placement apparatus of claim 4 wherein said magnet is an electromagnet.
                                                - 22 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
7. The placement apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a detachable electromagnet power
    supply proximate the second end of said placement apparatus to supply power to the
    electromagnet.
8. The placement apparatus of claim 4 wherein said magnet is placed in a resealable
    chamber on the first end of said placement apparatus.
9. The placement apparatus of claim 2 further comprising one or more ridges or grooves
    proximate the first end aligning with one or more ridges or grooves on an end of the
    intracorporeal apparatus.
10. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the body comprises a shaft proximate one
    end.
11. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the connector comprises a movable tab
    responsive to the first interface and adapted to fit within a groove on an intracorporeal
    apparatus in a mating fashion.
12. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first interface comprises a lever.
13. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first interface comprises a button.
14. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first interface comprises an electrical
    connection to an external device.
15. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second interface comprises a lever.
16. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second interface comprises a trigger.
17. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second interface comprises a spring.
18. The placement apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second interface comprises an electrical
    connection to an external device.
19. A placement apparatus having a first end and a second end separated by a shaft wherein:
         the first end is adapted to selectively engage and disengage an intracorporeal
         apparatus;
                                                -23-

   WO 2009/070743                                                          PCT/US2008/084991
         a first lever proximate the second end is operably connected to the connector to
                 control said connector to engage and disengage the intracorporeal apparatus;
         a second lever proximate the second end is adapted to be operably connected to
                 deliver mechanical energy from the placement apparatus to the intracorporeal
                 apparatus;
         an electromagnet proximate the first end assists engaging the intracorporeal tool.
20. An intracorporeal apparatus comprising:
         a body;
         a first end of the body adapted to attach to an object; and
         a second end of the body adapted to be engaged with and disengaged from a
                placement apparatus.
21. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 wherein the second end comprises
    ferromagnetic material.
22. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 wherein the second end comprises permanently
    magnetic material.
23. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 further comprising one or more ridges or
    grooves proximate the second end aligning with one or more ridges or grooves on an end
    of the placement apparatus.
24. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 further comprising:
         a plastic shell surrounding at least part of the body;
         a resealable chamber proximate the second end;
         a permanent magnet placed in said resealable chamber wherein the permanent
                magnet is removable from the resealable chamber.
25. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 further comprising:
         a resealable chamber proximate the second end;
                                               - 24 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
         a permanent magnet placed in said resealable chamber;
         wherein the body comprises a magnetically inert metal.
26. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a third interface proximate
    the second end of the body operably connected to the connector to rotate said connector
    and any object connected to the connector along the axis of the body.
27. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 20 further comprising;
         an interface adapted to receive energy from the placement apparatus.
28. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 wherein the energy comprises magnetic energy.
29. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a screw disposed on the first
    end of the body.
30. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 29 wherein said energy delivered by the interface
    twists the screw.
31. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 30 wherein the screw is adapted to engage the
    object when the screw twists.
32. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a loop disposed on the first
    end of the body.
33. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 32 wherein said energy delivered by the interface
    tightens or loosens the loop.
34. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 33 wherein the loop is adapted to engage the object
    when the loop tightens.
35. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a clip disposed on the first
    end of the body.
36. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 35 wherein said energy delivered by the interface
    opens or closes the clip.
                                              - 25 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
37. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 36 wherein the clamp is adapted to clasp the object
    when the clip closes.
38. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a clamp disposed on the first
    end of the body.
39. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 38 wherein said energy delivered by the interface
    opens or closes the clamp.
40. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 39 wherein the clamp is adapted to clamp one or
    more objects when the clamp closes.
41. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a fastener disposed on the
    first end of the body.
42. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 41 wherein said energy delivered by the interface
    operates the fastener.
43. The intracorporeal apparatus of claim 42 wherein the fastener is adapted to engage the
    object when the fastener operates.
44. An intracorporeal apparatus comprising:
          a body;
          a first end of the body comprising a docking port adapted to be engaged with and
                  disengaged from a placement apparatus;
          an interface allowing said placement apparatus to deliver energy to the intracorporeal
                  apparatus; and
          a screw, loop, clip, clamp, or fastener operated by receiving the energy delivered by
                 the interface.
          wherein the body comprises ferromagnetic or permanently magnetic material;
45. An extracorporeal apparatus comprising:
          a body comprising a central portion and a peripheral edge portion;
                                                -26-

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
         a handle affixed to the body; and
         a source of magnetic energy coupled to the body.
46. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the central portion is raised above the
    peripheral edge portion to form a cup.
47. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the body is at least partially coated with
    a medically inert plastic.
48. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the peripheral edge comprises a
    magnetically inert metal.
49. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 further comprising a cover at least partially
    wrapping the body.
50. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the cover comprises a form-fitting boot
    covering the peripheral edge portion of the body.
51. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 further comprising
         a resealable chamber on the interior side of the central portion; and
         wherein said source of magnetic energy is placed in said resealable chamber.
52. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein said source of magnetic energy
    comprises an adjustable electromagnet.
53. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein said source of magnetic energy
    comprises a permanent magnet.
54. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 53 wherein said permanent magnet comprises a
    rare earth magnet, Neodymium magnet, Alnico magnet, or Samarium-cobalt magnet.
55. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the peripheral edge of the
    extracorporeal apparatus is lubricated.
56. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the peripheral edge portion of the
    extracorporeal apparatus comprises the source of magnetic energy.
                                              - 27 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
57. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein the source of magnetic energy is
    connected to said central portion by a joint.
58. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 57 wherein the joint comprises an articulable joint.
59. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 further comprising
         a port connecting an exterior side of the central portion with an interior side of the
                central portion,
         where the port is adapted to be connected to an air pump to increase and decrease the
               pressure on the interior side of the central portion.
60. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 further comprising an anchor to hold the
    extracorporeal apparatus in a position.
61. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 60 wherein the anchor is adapted to attach to the
    patient's body.
62. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 60 wherein the anchor is adapted to attach to a
    surgical table.
63. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 wherein an adhesive is disposed on the bottom
    surface of the body.
64. The extracorporeal apparatus of claim 45 further comprising:
         a rim around the body adapted to move vertically to align with the bottom surface of
               the body and up away from the bottom surface of the body; and
         an adhesive disposed on the bottom surface of the rim to stick to the exterior of the
               patient's body.
65. A method of manipulating an object within a patient's body, comprising:
         attaching an intracorporeal apparatus to a placement apparatus wherein the
                intracorporeal apparatus is responsive to energy;
         passing the intracorporeal apparatus through a hole into the patient's body;
                                               -28-

   WO 2009/070743                                                            PCT/US2008/084991
          attaching said intracorporeal apparatus to an object;
          moving an extracorporeal apparatus, which is external to the patient and which is in
                close proximity to the intracorporeal apparatus to supply energy to the
                intracorporeal apparatus to position said object.
66. The method of claim 65 wherein a trocar is disposed in the hole into the patient's body.
67. The method of claim 66 wherein the trocar further comprises gradations on its exterior
    surface to measure the thickness of the hole into the patient's body.
68. The method of claim 65 wherein said placement apparatus comprises:
          a body and
          a connector proximate to a first end of the body wherein the connector is adapted to
                selectively engage and disengage an intracorporeal apparatus.
69. The method of claim 65 wherein said intracorporeal apparatus comprises a body having a
    first end adapted to attach to an object and a second end adapted to be engaged with and
    disengaged from a placement apparatus.
70. The method of claim 65 wherein said extracorporeal apparatus comprises a body, a
    handle affixed to the body, and a source of magnetic energy coupled to the body.
71. The method of claim 67 wherein
          said extracorporeal apparatus comprises a body, a handle affixed to the body, and a
                magnet coupled to the body;
          the method further comprising selecting a magnet from a plurality of magnets
                according to the strength required to interact with an intracorporeal apparatus
                inside the patient's body according to the thickness of the hole into the
                patient's body as measured by the gradations on the trocar.
72. The method of claim 67 wherein
                                               -29-

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
        said extracorporeal apparatus comprises a body, a handle affixed to the body, and a
               electromagnet coupled to the body;
        the method further comprising selecting a current to apply to the electromagnet
               according to the strength required to interact with an intracorporeal apparatus
               inside the patient's body according to the thickness of the hole into the
              patient's body as measured by the gradations on the trocar.
73. The method of claim 65 wherein said object comprises human tissue.
74. The method of claim 73 wherein said human tissue comprises a non-lumenous organ.
75. The method of claim 74 wherein said non-lumenous organ comprises an ovary.
76. The method of claim 73 wherein said human tissue comprises a uterus.
77. The method of claim 73 wherein said human tissue comprises a section of intestine.
78. The method of claim 73 wherein said human tissue comprises a stomach.
79. The method of claim 73 wherein said human tissue comprises a gall bladder.
80. The method of claim 73 wherein said object comprises a medical device.
81. The method of claim 68 further comprising:
        engaging the intracorporeal apparatus to a first end of the placement apparatus
               externally from the patient's body;
        passing the intracorporeal apparatus through a hole in the patient's body by applying
               force to the placement apparatus;
        using the placement apparatus to position the intracorporeal apparatus near an object
              within the patient's body;
        attaching the intracorporeal apparatus to the object;
        disengaging the intracorporeal apparatus from the placement apparatus;
        positioning the intracorporeal apparatus with the extracorporeal apparatus;
        retracting the placement apparatus from the patient's body via the hole;
                                              - 30 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
       reinserting the placement apparatus through a hole in the patient's body;
       engaging the intracorporeal apparatus to the first end of the placement apparatus;
       retracting the placement apparatus and intracorporeal apparatus from the patient's
             body via the hole.
82. A method of manipulating an object within a patient's body, comprising:
       selecting an intracorporeal apparatus from a plurality of intracorporeal apparatuses;
       engaging the intracorporeal apparatus to a first end of a placement apparatus
              externally from a patient's body;
       passing the intracorporeal apparatus through a hole in the patient's body by applying
              force to the placement apparatus;
       using the placement apparatus to position the intracorporeal apparatus near an object
             within the patient's body;
       applying force to the intracorporeal apparatus via the placement apparatus to attach
             the intracorporeal apparatus to said object;
       disengaging the intracorporeal apparatus from the placement apparatus;
       retracting the placement apparatus from the patient's body via the hole;
       selecting an extracorporeal apparatus having a source of magnetic energy from a
             plurality of extracorporeal apparatuses;
       moving said extracorporeal apparatus external to the patient and in close proximity to
             the intracorporeal apparatus to supply the energy to the intracorporeal
              apparatus to position said object;
       removing the extracorporeal apparatus away from the patient;
       reinserting the placement apparatus through a hole in the patient's body;
       engaging the intracorporeal apparatus to the first end of the placement apparatus
              inside the patient's body; and
                                             - 31 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
         retracting the placement apparatus and intracorporeal apparatus from the patient's
                body via the hole.
83. The method of claim 82 further comprising:
         adjusting an articulable connection of the source of energy to position the
                 intracorporeal apparatus in synchronization with the source of energy.
84. A remagnetizer, comprising:
         a body having a first portion that mates with a first end of an magnaretractor
                 apparatus having a permanently magnetic material having reduced magnetic
                 strength; and
         magnet source positioned inside the body that remagnetizes the permanently
                magnetic material of said magnaretractor apparatus.
85. The remagnetizer of claim 84 wherein the magnaretractor apparatus comprises a
    placement apparatus.
86. The remagnetizer of claim 84 wherein the magnaretractor apparatus comprises an
    intracorporeal apparatus.
87. The remagnetizer of claim 84 wherein the magnaretractor apparatus comprises an
    extracorporeal apparatus.
88. A surgical preparation method, comprising:
         placing a magnaretractor apparatus in an autoclave wherein the magnaretractor
                 apparatus was previously used in a previous surgery; and
         sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus in the autoclave to prepare the
                magnaretractor apparatus for a subsequent surgery.
89. The method of claim 88 wherein the magnaretractor apparatus comprises:
         a permanent magnet, and
                                               - 32 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                        PCT/US2008/084991
        the method further comprises remagnetizing the permanent magnet of said
        magnaretractor apparatus after sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus in the
        autoclave.
90. A surgical preparation method, comprising:
        providing a first magnaretractor apparatus wherein the first magnaretractor apparatus
               was previously used in a previous surgery and comprises a resealable chamber
                and a permanent magnet;
        unsealing the resealable chamber of the first magnaretractor apparatus;
        removing the permanent magnet from the resealable chamber of the first
               magnaretractor apparatus;
        providing a second magnaretractor apparatus having a resealable chamber;
        placing said permanent magnet into the resealable chamber of the second
               magnaretractor apparatus; and
        sealing the resealable chamber of the second magnaretractor apparatus.
91. The method of claim 90 further comprising using the second magnaretractor apparatus in
    a subsequent surgery after sealing the resealable chamber of the second magnaretractor
    apparatus.
92. A surgical preparation method, comprising:
        providing a first magnaretractor apparatus wherein the first magnaretractor apparatus
               was previously used in a previous surgery and comprises a resealable chamber
                and a permanent magnet;
        unsealing the resealable chamber of the magnaretractor apparatus;
        removing the permanent magnet from the resealable chamber;
        sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus;
        reinserting the removed permanent magnet into the resealable chamber; and
                                              - 33 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                         PCT/US2008/084991
         resealing the resealable chamber of the second magnaretractor apparatus.
93. The method of claim 92 further comprising using the second magnaretractor apparatus in
    a subsequent surgery after sealing the resealable chamber of the second magnaretractor
    apparatus.
94. The method of claim 92 wherein the sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus comprises
    placing the magnaretractor apparatus in an autoclave.
95. A surgical preparation method, comprising:
         providing a magnaretractor apparatus wherein the magnaretractor apparatus was
                previously used in a previous surgery and comprising a first detachable cover;
         removing the first detachable cover from the magnaretractor apparatus;
         providing a second detachable cover; and
         placing the second detachable cover onto the magnaretractor apparatus.
96. The method of claim 95 further comprising using the magnaretractor apparatus in a
    subsequent surgery after placing the second detachable cover onto the magnaretractor
    apparatus.
97. A surgical preparation method, comprising:
         providing a magnaretractor apparatus wherein the magnaretractor apparatus was
                previously used in a previous surgery and comprising a detachable
                 electromagnet power supply;
         removing the detachable electromagnet power supply from the magnaretractor
                 apparatus;
         sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus; and
         reconnecting the detachable electromagnet power supply to the magnaretractor
         apparatus.
                                              - 34 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                           PCT/US2008/084991
98. The method of claim 97 further comprising using the magnaretractor apparatus in a
    subsequent surgery after placing the second detachable cover onto the magnaretractor
    apparatus.
99. The method of claim 97 wherein the sterilizing the magnaretractor apparatus comprises
    placing the magnaretractor apparatus in an autoclave.
100.    A surgical preparation method, comprising:
         providing a first magnaretractor apparatus wherein the first magnaretractor apparatus
                was previously used in a previous surgery and comprising a detachable
                 electromagnet power supply;
         removing the detachable electromagnet power supply from the first magnaretractor
                 apparatus;
         providing a second magnaretractor apparatus; and
         connecting the electromagnet power supply to the second magnaretractor apparatus.
101.    The method of claim 100 further comprising using the magnaretractor apparatus in a
    subsequent surgery after placing the second detachable cover onto the magnaretractor
    apparatus.
102.    A surgical system comprising:
         a first intracorporeal apparatus;
         a first extracorporeal apparatus which is mobile and adapted to be placed in close
                proximity to the body; and
         a first placement apparatus mating with intracorporeal apparatuses and adapted to
         place an intracorporeal apparatus into the patient's body;
         wherein the intracorporeal apparatus is adapted to respond to the extracorporeal
         apparatus while the intracorporeal apparatus is in the patient's body.
103.    The surgical system of claim 102 wherein the intracorporeal apparatus comprises:
                                              - 35 -

   WO 2009/070743                                                              PCT/US2008/084991
         a body;
         a first end of the body adapted to attach to an object; and
         a second end of the body adapted to be engaged with and disengaged from a
         placement apparatus.
104.    The surgical system of claim 102 wherein the placement apparatus comprises:
         a body;
         a connector proximate to a first end of the body and adapted to selectively engage
                 and disengage an intracorporeal apparatus;
         a first interface proximate a second end of the body operably connected to the
                 connector to control said connector to engage and disengage the intracorporeal
                 apparatus; and
         a second interface proximate the second end adapted to deliver mechanical energy
                 from the placement apparatus to the intracorporeal apparatus.
105.    The surgical system of claim 102 wherein the extracorporeal apparatus comprises:
         a body;
         a handle affixed to the body; and
         a source of magnetic energy coupled to the body.
106.    The surgical system of claim 102 further comprising an autoclave for sterilizing at
    least one of an intracorporeal apparatus, an extracorporeal apparatus, and a placement
    apparatus after the intracorporeal apparatus is placed in a patient's body.
107.    The surgical system of claim 102 further comprising:
         a sterilized cover that at least partially covers the first extracorporeal apparatus to
                prevent contamination of a patient's body.
                                                 - 36 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
