  ABSTRACT
          The present invention relates to products and methods for treatment of various
  symptoms in a patient, including treatment of pain suffered by a patient. The invention more
  particularly relates to self-supporting dosage forms which provide an active agent while
5 providing sufficient buccal adhesion of the dosage form. Further, the present invention
  provides a dosage form which is useful in reducing the likelihood of diversion abuse of the
  active agent.

                        SUBLINGUAL AND BUCCAL FILM COMPOSITIONS
            The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
   number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application from Australian patent
 5 application number 2015200902, which is a divisional of Australian patent application number
   2010279441, which in turn claims priority from United States Application No. 12/537,580,
   filed 7 August 2009, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10          The present invention relates to compositions, methods of manufacture, products and
   methods of use relating to films containing therapeutic actives. The invention more
   particularly relates to self-supporting dosage forms which provide an agonist acting alone or in
   combination with a buffer system to maximize therapeutic absorption of the agonist. Some
   embodiments also include an antagonist, with the buffer system acting to minimize the
15 absorption of the antagonist. Such compositions are particularly useful for preventing misuse
   of the active while providing sufficient buccal adhesion of the dosage form.
   BACKGROUND OF THE RELATED TECHNOLOGY
            Oral administration of two therapeutic actives in a single dosage form can be complex
20 if the intention is to have one active absorbed into the body and the other active remain
   substantially unabsorbed. For example, one active may be relatively soluble in the mouth at
   one pH, and the other active may be relatively insoluble at the same pH. Moreover, the
   absorption kinetics of each therapeutic agent may be substantially different due to differing
   absorption of the charged and uncharged species. These factors represent some of the
25 challenges in appropriately co-administering therapeutic agents.
            Co-administration of therapeutic agents has many applications. Among such areas of
   treatment include treating individuals who suffer from pain or other medical condition. Such
   individuals may have a tendency to suffer from serious physical dependence on the therapeutic
   agent, resulting in potentially dangerous withdrawal effects when the therapeutic agent is not
30 administered to the individual. In order to provide treatment to patients, it is known to provide
   a reduced level of a therapeutic agent, which provides an effect of treating the condition, but
   does not provide the "high" that may be provided by the therapeutic agent. The drug provided
                                                     1

  may be an agonist or a partial agonist, which may provide a reduction in pain or other
  symptom that the patient is experiencing. However, even though these therapeutic agents
  provide only a low level of euphoric effect, they are capable of being abused by the
  individuals parenterally. In such cases, it is desirable to provide a combination of the
5 therapeutic agent with a second therapeutic agent, which may decrease the likelihood
                                                   la

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   of diversion and abuse of the first drug. For example, it is known to provide a dosage
   of an antagonist in combination with the agonist or partial agonist. The narcotic
   antagonist binds to a receptor in the brain to block the receptor, thus reducing the
   effect of the agonist.
 5         One such combination of narcotic agents has been marketed under the trade
   name Suboxone@ as an orally ingestible tablet. However, such combinations in tablet
   form have the potential for abuse. In some instances, the patient who has been
   provided the drug may store the tablet in his mouth without swallowing the tablet,
   then later extract the agonist from the tablet and inject the drug into an individual's
10 body. Although certain antagonists (such as highly water-soluble antagonists) may be
   used to help reduce the ability to separate the agonist, the potential for abuse still
   exists. Further, incorporation of an antagonist in combination with the pain-relieving
   agonist has been found to reduce side effects associated with administration of the
   agonist, such as constipation and other undesirable effects. It is desired to provide a
15 dosage that cannot be easily removed from the mouth once it has been administered.
           There is currently a need for an orally dissolvable film dosage form that
   provides the desired absorption levels of the agonist and antagonist, while providing
   an adhesive effect in the mouth, rendering it difficult to remove once placed in the
   mouth and achieving optimum absorption of the agonist while inhibiting absorption of
20 the antagonist.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
   supporting film dosage composition including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a
25 therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
   thereof; and a buffer sufficient to maximize the absorption of the agonist.
           In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
   supporting film dosage composition including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a
   therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
30 thereof; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof; and a buffering system; where the buffering system possesses
   a buffer capacity sufficient to inhibit the absorption of the antagonist during the time
   which the composition is in the oral cavity of a user.
                                                2

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
           In still another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of treatment, including the steps of: providing a film dosage composition
   including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a buffer in an amount sufficient to
 5 maximize the absorption of the agonist; and administering the film dosage
   composition to a patient.
           In other embodiments of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   treatment, including the steps of: providing a film dosage composition including: a
   polymeric carrier matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
10 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; a therapeutically effective amount of an
   antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; a first buffer in an amount
   sufficient to obtain a local pH of the agonist of about 4 to about 9; a buffer in an
   amount sufficient to obtain a local pH of the antagonist of about 2 to about 4; and
   administering the film dosage composition to a user.
15         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
   supporting film dosage composition including: a first region including: a first
   polymeric matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a first buffering system in an amount
   sufficient to optimize the absorption of the agonist; a second region including: a
20 second polymeric matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and a
   second buffering system in an amount sufficient to inhibit the absorption of the
   antagonist.
           In a further embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an orally
   dissolving film formulation including a first region including a therapeutically
25 effective amount of an agonist and second region including a therapeutically effective
   amount of an antagonist, where the formulation provides an in vivo plasma profile
   having a Cmax of about 0.868-6.94 ng/ml for the agonist and an in vivo plasma
   profile having a Cmax of about 32.5-260 pg/ml for the antagonist.
           In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
30 supporting film dosage composition including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a
   therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
   thereoft a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof; and a buffering system sufficient to obtain a local pH of the
   antagonist of about 2 to about 4.
                                               3

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
           In an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self-supporting
   film dosage composition including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a therapeutically
   effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; a
   therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
 5 thereof; and a buffering system sufficient to inhibit absorption of the antagonist and
   optimize absorption of the agonist when the film dosage composition is placed in the
   mouth of a user.
           In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
   supporting film dosage composition including: a first region including: a first
10 polymeric matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a first buffering system in an amount
   sufficient to optimize absorption of the agonist when the film dosage composition is
   placed in the mouth of a user; and a second region including: a second polymeric
   matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and a second buffering
15 system in an amount sufficient to inhibit absorption of the antagonist when the film
   dosage composition is placed in the mouth of a user.
           In yet another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
   process of forming a film dosage composition including the steps of: casting a film
   forming composition, the film-forming composition including: a polymeric carrier
20 matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a buffer in an amount sufficient to
   optimize absorption of the agonist and sufficient to inhibit absorption of the
   antagonist when the film dosage composition is placed in the mouth of a user; and
25 drying the film-forming composition to form a self-supporting film dosage
   composition.
           In still another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of treatment, including the steps of: providing a film dosage composition
   including: a polymeric carrier matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist
30 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; a therapeutically effective amount of an
   antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a buffering system in an
   amount sufficient to provide an in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax of about 0.624
   5.638 ng/ml for the agonist and an in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax of less than
   324 pg/ml for the antagonist; and administering the film dosage composition to a user.
                                                4

   WO 2011/017484                                                         PCT/US2010/044490
            In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a self
   supporting film dosage composition including: a first region including: a first
   polymeric matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a first buffering system in an amount
 5 sufficient to optimize the absorption of the agonist; a second region including: a
   second polymeric matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and a
   second buffering system in an amount sufficient to inhibit the absorption of the
   antagonist; where the second region dissolves at a faster rate when placed in the oral
   cavity of the user than the first region.
10          In another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a process of
   forming a film dosage composition including the steps of: casting a first film-forming
   composition, the first film-forming composition including: a polymeric carrier matrix;
   a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
   thereof; and a buffer in an amount sufficient to optimize absorption of the agonist
15 when the film dosage composition is placed in the mouth of a user; casting a second
   film-forming composition, the second film-forming composition including: a
   polymeric carrier matrix; a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and a buffer in an amount sufficient to
   inhibit absorption of the antagonist when the film dosage composition is placed in the
20 mouth of a user; and laminating the first film-forming composition and the second
   film-forming composition together to form a self-supporting film dosage composition.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   Definitions
25          As used herein, the term Cmax refers to the mean maximum plasma
   concentration after administration of the composition to a human subject. As also
   used herein, the term AUC refers to the mean area under the plasma concentration
   time curve value after administration of the compositions formed herein. As will be
   set forth in more detail below, the term "optimizing the absorption" does not
30 necessarily refer to reaching the maximum absorption of the composition, and rather
   refers to reaching the optimum level of absorption at a given pH. The "optimum"
   absorption may be, for example, a level that provides a bioequivalent absorption as
   administration of the currently available Suboxone@ tablet. Thus, if a bioequivalent
   absorption to Suboxone@ is desired, the Cmax of buprenorphine may be about 0.67 to
                                                5

   WO 2011/017484                                                            PCT/US2010/044490
   about 5.36 ng/ml at dosages of from 2-16 mg buprenorphine at a given pH. Similarly,
   an "optimum" AUC of buprenorphine may be about 7.43 to about 59.46 hr*ng/ml at
   dosages of from 2-16 mg buprenorphine at a given pH. As will be described in more
   detail below, it has been surprisingly discovered that the absorption of one particular
 5 agonist, buprenorphine, can provide an optimum absorption at a local pH of about 3-4
   as well as about 5.5-6.5. Thus, one may "optimize" the absorption of buprenorphine
   by providing a local pH of about 3-4 or about 5.5-6.5.
            "Maximizing the absorption" refers to the maximum in vivo absorption values
   achieved at a local pH of about 4 to about 9.
10          The term "local pH" refers to the local pH of the region of the carrier matrix
   immediately surrounding the active agent as the matrix hydrates and/or dissolves, for
   example, in the mouth of the user.
            By "inhibiting" the absorption of an active, it is meant achieving as complete
   an ionization state of the active as possible, such that little to none of the active is
15 measurably absorbable. For example, at a local pH of 3-3.5, the Cmax of an active
   such as naloxone for dosage of 0.5 mg to 4.0 mg ranges from 32.5 to 260 pg/ml, and
   an AUC of naloxone for dosage of 0.5 mg to 4.0 mg ranges from 90.55 to 724.4
   hr*pg/ml. It is understood that at a local pH lower than 3.0, further ionization would
   be expected and thus result in lower absorption.
20          The term "bioequivalent" means obtaining 80% to 125% of the Cmax and
   AUC values for a given active in a different product. For example, assuming Cmax
   and AUC values of buprenorphine for a commercially-available Suboxone@ tablet
   (containing 2 mg buprenorphine and 0.5 mg naloxone) are 0.780 ng/ml and 6.789
   hr*ng/ml, respectively, a bioequivalent product would have a Cmax of buprenorphine
25 in the range of 0.624-0.975 ng/ml, and an AUC value of buprenorphine of 5.431
   8.486 hr*ng/ml.
            It will be understood that the term "film" includes thin films, sheets and
   wafers, in any shape, including rectangular, square, or other desired shape. The films
   described herein may be any desired thickness and size such that it may be placed into
30 the oral cavity of the user. For example, the films may have a relatively thin thickness
   of from about 0.1 to about 10 mils, or they may have a somewhat thicker thickness of
   from about 10 to about 30 mils. For some films, the thickness may be even larger,
   i.e., greater than about 30 mils. Films may be in a single layer or they may be multi
   layered, including laminated films.
                                                6

   WO 2011/017484                                                             PCT/US2010/044490
            Oral dissolving films generally fall into three main classes: fast dissolving,
   moderate dissolving and slow dissolving. Fast dissolving films generally dissolve in
   about 1 second to about 30 seconds in the mouth. Moderate dissolving films
   generally dissolve in about 1 to about 30 minutes in the mouth, and slow dissolving
 5 films generally dissolve in more than 30 minutes in the mouth. Fast dissolving films
   may consist of low molecular weight hydrophilic polymers (i.e., polymers having a
   molecular weight between about 1,000 to 9,000, or polymers having a molecular
   weight below 200,000). In contrast, slow dissolving films generally have high
   molecular weight polymers (i.e., having a molecular weight in the millions).
10          Moderate dissolving films tend to fall in between the fast and slow dissolving
   films. Moderate dissolving films dissolve rather quickly, but also have a good level
   of mucoadhesion. Moderate dissolving films are also flexible, quickly wettable, and
   are typically non-irritating to the user. For the instant invention, it is preferable to use
   films that fall between the categories of fast dissolving and moderate dissolving.
15 Such moderate dissolving films provide a quick enough dissolution rate, most
   desirably between about 1 minute and about 20 minutes, while providing an
   acceptable mucoadhesion level such that the film is not easily removable once it is
   placed in the oral cavity of the user.
            Inventive films described herein may include one or more agonists or partial
20 agonists. As used herein, the term "agonist" refers to a chemical substance that is
   capable of providing a physiological response or activity in the body of the user. The
   films described herein may further include one or more antagonists. As used herein,
   the term "antagonist" refers to any chemical substance that acts within the body of the
   user to reduce the physiological activity of another chemical substance. In some
25 embodiments, an antagonist used herein may act to reduce and/or block the
   physiological activity of the agonist. The actives may be water-soluble, or they may
   be water-insoluble. As used herein, the term "water-soluble" refers to substances that
   are at least partially dissolvable in a solvent, including but not limited to water. The
   term "water-soluble" does not necessarily mean that the substance is 100%
30 dissolvable in the solvent. The term "water-insoluble" refers to substances that are
   not readily dissolvable in a solvent, including but not limited to water. Solvents may
   include water, or alternatively may include other polar solvents by themselves or in
   combination with water.
   Inventive Films
                                                 7

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
           The present invention relates to methods of treating pain or other symptoms in
   an individual while limiting the potential for abuse of the treatment. More desirably,
   the invention relates to the treatment of physical pain in an individual, for example by
   administration of an analgesic or other pain-relieving therapeutic agent. One such
 5 therapeutic agent that is known to treat pain in individuals includes an agonist such as
   buprenorphine. However, buprenorphine is known to be a partial agonist and
   therefore can be abused, and as such it is desired to combine buprenorphine with an
   antagonist, thereby lessening the potential for abuse by parenteral injection. Such
   combination of drugs is currently provided via a product marketed under the trade
10 name Suboxone@, which is an orally dissolvable tablet. This tablet which provides a
   combination of buprenorphine (an opioid agonist) and naloxone (an opioid
   antagonist). However, even using an antagonist such as naloxone may be abused by a
   user. Therefore, the present invention provides a method of treating pain or other
   symptoms in a patient by providing an orally dissolvable film dosage, which provides
15 a bioequivalent effect to Suboxone@. The film dosage further preferably provides
   buccal adhesion while it is in the user's mouth, rendering it difficult to remove after
   placement.
           The film dosage composition preferably includes a polymeric carrier matrix.
   Any desired polymeric carrier matrix may be used, provided that it is orally
20 dissolvable. Desirably, the dosage should have enough bioadhesion to not be easily
   removed and it should form a gel like structure when administered. The orally
   consumable films are preferably moderate-dissolving in the oral cavity and
   particularly suitable for delivery of actives, although both fast and sustained release
   compositions are also among the various embodiments contemplated. In some
25 embodiments, as will be described in more detail below, the inventive combination
   may include films that have more than one region, where each region has a different
   dissolution profile.
           The films used in the pharmaceutical products may be produced by a
   combination of at least one polymer and a solvent, optionally including other fillers
30 known in the art. The solvent may be water, a polar organic solvent including, but not
   limited to, ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, or any combination thereof. In some
   embodiments, the solvent may be a non-polar organic solvent, such as methylene
   chloride. The film may be prepared by utilizing a selected casting or deposition
   method and a controlled drying process. For example, the film may be prepared
                                                 8

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   through controlled drying processes, which include application of heat and/or
   radiation energy to the wet film matrix to form a visco-elastic structure, thereby
   controlling the uniformity of content of the film. Such processes are described in
   more detail in commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 7,425,292, the contents of which
 5 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Alternatively, the films may be
   extruded as described in commonly assigned U.S. Application No. 10/856,176, filed
   on May 28, 2004, and published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005/0037055 Al, the
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
           The polymer included in the films may be water-soluble, water-swellable,
10 water-insoluble, or a combination of one or more either water-soluble, water
   swellable or water-insoluble polymers. The polymer may include cellulose or a
   cellulose derivative. Specific examples of useful water-soluble polymers include, but
   are not limited to, polyethylene oxide, pullulan, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose,
   hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone,
15 carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, sodium alginate, polyethylene glycol,
   xanthan gum, tragancanth gum, guar gum, acacia gum, arabic gum, polyacrylic acid,
   methylmethacrylate copolymer, carboxyvinyl copolymers, starch, gelatin, and
   combinations thereof. Specific examples of useful water-insoluble polymers include,
   but are not limited to, ethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate
20 phthalate, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate and combinations thereof. For
   higher dosages, it may be desirable to incorporate a polymer which provides a high
   level of viscosity as compared to polymers suitable for lower dosages.
           As used herein the phrase "water-soluble polymer" and variants thereof refer
   to a polymer that is at least partially soluble in water, and desirably fully or
25 predominantly soluble in water, or absorbs water. Polymers that absorb water are
   often referred to as being water-swellable polymers. The materials useful with the
   present invention may be water-soluble or water-swellable at room temperature and
   other temperatures, such as temperatures exceeding room temperature. Moreover, the
   materials may be water-soluble or water-swellable at pressures less than atmospheric
30 pressure. Desirably, the water-soluble polymers are water-soluble or water-swellable
   having at least 20 percent by weight water uptake. Water-swellable polymers having
   a 25 or greater percent by weight water uptake are also useful. In some embodiments,
   films formed from such water-soluble polymers may be sufficiently water-soluble to
   be dissolvable upon contact with bodily fluids.
                                                 9

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
           Other polymers useful for incorporation into the films include biodegradable
   polymers, copolymers, block polymers and combinations thereof. It is understood
   that the term "biodegradable" is intended to include materials that chemically degrade
   in the presence of a solvent, as opposed to materials that physically break apart (i.e.,
 5 bioerodable materials). Among the known useful polymers or polymer classes which
   meet the above criteria are: poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA),
   polydioxanes, polyoxalates, poly(a-esters), polyanhydrides, polyacetates,
   polycaprolactones, poly(orthoesters), polyamino acids, polyaminocarbonates,
   polyurethanes, polycarbonates, polyamides, poly(alkyl cyanoacrylates), and mixtures
10 and copolymers thereof. Additional useful polymers include, stereopolymers of L
   and D-lactic acid, copolymers of bis(p-carboxyphenoxy) propane acid and sebacic
   acid, sebacic acid copolymers, copolymers of caprolactone, poly(lactic
   acid)/poly(glycolic acid)/polyethyleneglycol copolymers, copolymers of polyurethane
   and (poly(lactic acid), copolymers of polyurethane and poly(lactic acid), copolymers
15 of a-amino acids, copolymers of a-amino acids and caproic acid, copolymers of a
   benzyl glutamate and polyethylene glycol, copolymers of succinate and poly(glycols),
   polyphosphazene, polyhydroxy-alkanoates and mixtures thereof. Binary and ternary
   systems are contemplated.
           Other specific polymers useful include those marketed under the Medisorb and
20 Biodel trademarks. The Medisorb materials are marketed by the Dupont Company of
   Wilmington, Delaware and are generically identified as a "lactide/glycolide co
   polymer" containing "propanoic acid, 2-hydroxy-polymer with hydroxy-polymer with
   hydroxyacetic acid." Four such polymers include lactide/glycolide 1OOL, believed to
   be 100% lactide having a melting point within the range of 338'-347'F (170'-175'C);
25 lactide/glycolide 1 OL, believed to be 100% glycolide having a melting point within
   the range of 437'-455'F (225'-235'C); lactide/glycolide 85/15, believed to be 85%
   lactide and 15% glycolide with a melting point within the range of 338'-347'F (170'
   175 C); and lactide/glycolide 50/50, believed to be a copolymer of 50% lactide and
   50% glycolide with a melting point within the range of 338'-347'F (170'-175'C).
30         The Biodel materials represent a family of various polyanhydrides which
   differ chemically.
           Although a variety of different polymers may be used, it is desired to select
   polymers that provide mucoadhesive properties to the film, as well as a desired
   dissolution and/or disintegration rate. In particular, the time period for which it is
                                               10

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   desired to maintain the film in contact with the mucosal tissue depends on the type of
   active contained in the composition. Some actives may only require a few minutes
   for delivery through the mucosal tissue, whereas other actives may require up to
   several hours or even longer. Accordingly, in some embodiments, one or more water
 5 soluble polymers, as described above, may be used to form the film. In other
   embodiments, however, it may be desirable to use combinations of water-soluble
   polymers and polymers that are water-swellable, water- insoluble and/or
   biodegradable, as provided above. The inclusion of one or more polymers that are
   water-swellable, water-insoluble and/or biodegradable may provide films with slower
10 dissolution or disintegration rates than films formed from water-soluble polymers
   alone. As such, the film may adhere to the mucosal tissue for longer periods or time,
   such as up to several hours, which may be desirable for delivery of certain active
   components.
           Desirably, the individual film dosage has a small size that is between about
15 0.5-1 inch by about 0.5-1 inch. Most preferably, the film dosage is about 0.75 inches
   x 0.5 inches. The film dosage should have good adhesion when placed in the buccal
   cavity or in the sublingual region of the user. Further, the film dosage should disperse
   and dissolve at a moderate rate, that is, between about 1 minute to about 30 minutes,
   and most desirably between about 10 minutes and about 20 minutes. In some
20 embodiments, however, it may be desired to allow the individual film dosage to
   dissolve slower, over a period of longer than about 30 minutes. In such slow
   dissolving embodiments, it is preferable that the film dosage has strong mucoadhesion
   properties. In other embodiments, however, it may be desirable to use a faster
   dissolving material, for example between about 1 to about 3 minutes. Further, the
25 film dosage should include components that aid in adhesion to the inner surface of the
   user's oral cavity, such as the buccal cavity or sublingually. In particular, for dual
   layered films, the region including the agonist should have a higher degree of
   adhesion than the region including the antagonist. In this fashion, the agonist may be
   released quicker and ingested by the user.
30         For instance, in some embodiments, the films may include polyethylene oxide
   alone or in combination with a second polymer component. In some embodiments,
   the films may include polymers other than polyethylene oxide. The second polymer
   may be another water-soluble polymer, a water-swellable polymer, a water-insoluble
   polymer, a biodegradable polymer or any combination thereof. Suitable water-soluble
                                                11

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   polymers include, without limitation, any of those provided above. In some
   embodiments, the water-soluble polymer may include hydrophilic cellulosic
   polymers, such as hydroxypropyl cellulose and/or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose.
   Other specific examples of useful water soluble polymers include, but are not limited
 5 to, polyethylene oxide (PEO), pullulan, hydroxypropyl cellulose, polydextrose,
   polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, sodium alginate,
   propylene glycol alginate, carrageenan, polyethylene glycol, xanthan gum,
   tragancanth gum, guar gum, acacia gum, arabic gum, polyacrylic acid,
   methylmethacrylate copolymer, poloxamer polymers, copolymers of acrylic acid and
10 alkyl acrylate (availale as Pemulen@ polymers), carboxyvinyl copolymers, starch,
   gelatin, pectin, and combinations thereof.
            Specific examples of useful water insoluble polymers include, but are not
   limited to, ethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate phthalate,
   hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate, acrylic polymers, vinyl acetate, sodium
15 sulphonated polyesters, carboxylated acrylics, trimethylpentanediol/adipic
   acid/glycerin cross polymer, polyglycerol-2-diisostearate/IPDI copolymer,
   carboxylated vinyl acetate copolymer, vinylpyrrolicone/vinyl
   acetate/alkylaminoacrylate terpolymers, vinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer,
   and combinations thereof.
20         In accordance with some embodiments, polyethylene oxide may range from
   about 20% to 100% by weight in the polymer component, more specifically about
   30% to about 70% by weight, and even more specifically about 40% to about 60% by
   weight. In some embodiments, one or more water-swellable, water-insoluble and/or
   biodegradable polymers also may be included in the polyethylene oxide-based film.
25 Any of the water-swellable, water-insoluble or biodegradable polymers provided
   above may be employed. The second polymer component may be employed in
   amounts of about 0% to about 80% by weight in the polymer component, more
   specifically about 30% to about 70% by weight, and even more specifically about
   40% to about 60% by weight.
30         The molecular weight of the polyethylene oxide also may be varied. In some
   embodiments, high molecular weight polyethylene oxide, such as about 4 million,
   may be desired to increase mucoadhesivity of the film. In some other embodiments,
   the molecular weight may range from about 100,000 to 900,000, more specifically
   from about 100,000 to 600,000, and even more specifically from about 100,000 to
                                              12

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   300,000. In some embodiments, it may be desirable to combine high molecular
   weight (600,000 to 900,000) with low molecular weight (100,000 to 300,000)
   polyethylene oxide in the polymer component. Suitable polymers include those
   described in the applicant's co-pending application, U.S. Publication Number 2008
 5 0260809, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
           A variety of optional components and fillers also may be added to the films.
   These may include, without limitation: surfactants; plasticizers; polyalcohols; anti
   foaming agents, such as silicone-containing compounds, which promote a smoother
   film surface by releasing oxygen from the film; thermo-setting gels such as pectin,
10 carageenan, and gelatin, which help in maintaining the dispersion of components;
   inclusion compounds, such as cyclodextrins and caged molecules; coloring agents;
   and flavors. In some embodiments, more than one active components may be
   included in the film.
           Additives may be included in the films. Examples of classes of additives
15 include excipients, lubricants, buffering agents, stabilizers, blowing agents, pigments,
   coloring agents, fillers, bulking agents, sweetening agents, flavoring agents,
   fragrances, release modifiers, adjuvants, plasticizers, flow accelerators, mold release
   agents, polyols, granulating agents, diluents, binders, buffers, absorbents, glidants,
   adhesives, anti-adherents, acidulants, softeners, resins, demulcents, solvents,
20 surfactants, emulsifiers, elastomers and mixtures thereof. These additives may be
   added with the active ingredient(s).
           Useful additives include, for example, gelatin, vegetable proteins such as
   sunflower protein, soybean proteins, cotton seed proteins, peanut proteins, grape seed
   proteins, whey proteins, whey protein isolates, blood proteins, egg proteins, acrylated
25 proteins, water-soluble polysaccharides such as alginates, carrageenans, guar gum,
   agar-agar, xanthan gum, gellan gum, gum arabic and related gums (gum ghatti, gum
   karaya, gum tragancanth), pectin, water-soluble derivatives of cellulose:
   alkylcelluloses hydroxyalkylcelluloses and hydroxyalkylalkylcelluloses, such as
   methylcelulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose,
30 hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxyethylmethylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxybutylmethylcellulose, cellulose esters and
   hydroxyalkylcellulose esters such as cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP),
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC); carboxyalkylcelluloses,
   carboxyalkylalkylcelluloses, carboxyalkylcellulose esters such as
                                               13

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   carboxymethylcellulose and their alkali metal salts; water-soluble synthetic polymers
   such as polyacrylic acids and polyacrylic acid esters, polymethacrylic acids and
   polymethacrylic acid esters, polyvinylacetates, polyvinylalcohols,
   polyvinylacetatephthalates (PVAP), polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), PVY/vinyl acetate
 5 copolymer, and polycrotonic acids; also suitable are phthalated gelatin, gelatin
   succinate, crosslinked gelatin, shellac, water-soluble chemical derivatives of starch,
   cationically modified acrylates and methacrylates possessing, for example, a tertiary
   or quaternary amino group, such as the diethylaminoethyl group, which may be
   quaternized if desired; and other similar polymers.
10            Such extenders may optionally be added in any desired amount desirably
   within the range of up to about 80%, desirably about 3% to 50% and more desirably
   within the range of 3% to 20% based on the weight of all film components.
              Further additives may be flow agents and opacifiers, such as the oxides of
   magnesium aluminum, silicon, titanium, etc. desirably in a concentration range of
15 about 0.02% to about 3% by weight and desirably about 0.02% to about 1% based on
   the weight of all film components.
              Further examples of additives are plasticizers which include polyalkylene
   oxides, such as polyethylene glycols, polypropylene glycols, polyethylene-propylene
   glycols, organic plasticizers with low molecular weights, such as glycerol, glycerol
20 monoacetate, diacetate or triacetate, triacetin, polysorbate, cetyl alcohol, propylene
   glycol, sorbitol, sodium diethylsulfosuccinate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, and the
   like, added in concentrations ranging from about 0.5% to about 30%, and desirably
   ranging from about 0.5% to about 20% based on the weight of the polymer.
              There may further be added compounds to improve the texture properties of
25 the starch material such as animal or vegetable fats, desirably in their hydrogenated
   form, especially those which are solid at room temperature. These fats desirably have
   a melting point of 50'C or higher. Preferred are tri-glycerides with C 12 -, C 14 -, C16 -,
   CIS-, C2 0 - and C2 2 - fatty acids. These fats can be added alone without adding
   extenders or plasticizers and can be advantageously added alone or together with
30 mono- and/or di-glycerides or phosphatides, especially lecithin. The mono- and di
   glycerides are desirably derived from the types of fats described above, i.e. with C1 2 -,
   C 14 -, C 16 -, C18 -, C 20 - and C 22- fatty acids.
                                                        14

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
           The total amounts used of the fats, mono-, di-glycerides and/or lecithins may
   be up to about 5% and preferably within the range of about 0.5% to about 2% by
   weight of the total film composition.
           It further may be useful to add silicon dioxide, calcium silicate, or titanium
 5 dioxide in a concentration of about 0.02% to about 1% by weight of the total
   composition. These compounds act as flow agents and opacifiers.
           Lecithin is one surface active agent for use in the films described herein.
   Lecithin may be included in the feedstock in an amount of from about 0.25% to about
   2.00% by weight. Other surface active agents, i.e. surfactants, include, but are not
10 limited to, cetyl alcohol, sodium lauryl sulfate, the SpansTM and TweensTM which are
   commercially available from ICI Americas, Inc. Ethoxylated oils, including
   ethoxylated castor oils, such as Cremophor@ EL which is commercially available
   from BASF, are also useful. CarbowaxTM is yet another modifier which is very useful
   in the present invention. TweensTM or combinations of surface active agents may be
15 used to achieve the desired hydrophilic-lipophilic balance ("HLB").
           Other ingredients include binders which contribute to the ease of formation
   and general quality of the films. Non-limiting examples of binders include starches,
   pregelatinize starches, gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methylcellulose, sodium
   carboxymethylcellulose, ethylcellulose, polyacrylamides, polyvinyloxoazolidone, and
20 polyvinylalcohols. If desired, the film may include other additives, such as keratin, or
   proteins, including proteins that are useful in forming a gel, such as gelatine.
           Further potential additives include solubility enhancing agents, such as
   substances that form inclusion compounds with active components. Such agents may
   be useful in improving the properties of very insoluble and/or unstable actives. In
25 general, these substances are doughnut-shaped molecules with hydrophobic internal
   cavities and hydrophilic exteriors. Insoluble and/or instable actives may fit within the
   hydrophobic cavity, thereby producing an inclusion complex, which is soluble in
   water. Accordingly, the formation of the inclusion complex permits very insoluble
   and/or instable actives to be dissolved in water. A particularly desirable example of
30 such agents are cyclodextrins, which are cyclic carbohydrates derived from starch.
   Other similar substances, however, are considered well within the scope of the present
   invention.
           Suitable coloring agents include food, drug and cosmetic colors (FD&C), drug
   and cosmetic colors (D&C), or external drug and cosmetic colors (Ext. D&C). These
                                                15

   WO 2011/017484                                                             PCT/US2010/044490
   colors are dyes, their corresponding lakes, and certain natural and derived colorants.
   Lakes are dyes absorbed on aluminum hydroxide.
            Other examples of coloring agents include known azo dyes, organic or
   inorganic pigments, or coloring agents of natural origin. Inorganic pigments are
 5 preferred, such as the oxides or iron or titanium, these oxides, being added in
   concentrations ranging from about 0.001 to about 10%, and preferably about 0.5 to
   about 3%, based on the weight of all the components.
            Flavors may be chosen from natural and synthetic flavoring liquids. An
   illustrative list of such agents includes volatile oils, synthetic flavor oils, flavoring
10 aromatics, oils, liquids, oleoresins or extracts derived from plants, leaves, flowers,
   fruits, stems and combinations thereof. A non-limiting representative list of examples
   includes mint oils, cocoa, and citrus oils such as lemon, orange, grape, lime and
   grapefruit and fruit essences including apple, pear, peach, grape, strawberry,
   raspberry, cherry, plum, pineapple, apricot or other fruit flavors.
15          Other useful flavorings include aldehydes and esters such as benzaldehyde
   (cherry, almond), citral i.e., alphacitral (lemon, lime), neral, i.e., beta-citral (lemon,
   lime), decanal (orange, lemon), aldehyde C-8 (citrus fruits), aldehyde C-9 (citrus
   fruits), aldehyde C-12 (citrus fruits), tolyl aldehyde (cherry, almond), 2,6
   dimethyloctanol (green fruit), and 2-dodecenal (citrus, mandarin), combinations
20 thereof and the like.
            The sweeteners may be chosen from the following non-limiting list: glucose
   (corn syrup), dextrose, invert sugar, fructose, and combinations thereof; saccharin and
   its various salts such as the sodium salt; dipeptide sweeteners such as aspartame;
   dihydrochalcone compounds, glycyrrhizin; Stevia Rebaudiana (Stevioside); chloro
25 derivatives of sucrose such as sucralose; sugar alcohols such as sorbitol, mannitol,
   xylitol, and the like. Also contemplated are hydrogenated starch hydrolysates and the
   synthetic sweetener 3,6-dihydro-6-methyl-1-1-1,2,3-oxathiazin-4-one-2,2-dioxide,
   particularly the potassium salt (acesulfame-K), and sodium and calcium salts thereof,
   and natural intensive sweeteners, such as Lo Han Kuo. Other sweeteners may also be
30 used.
            The films may include one or more additives to provide a taste masking of the
   active component. For example, the films may include ionic exchange resins,
   including but not limited to a water-insoluble organic or inorganic matrix material
   having covalently bound functional groups that are ionic or capable of being ionized
                                                 16

   WO 2011/017484                                                         PCT/US2010/044490
   under appropriate conditions. The organic matrix may be synthetic (e.g., polymers or
   copolymers or acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, sulfonated styrene or sulfonated
   divinylbenzene) or partially synthetic (e.g., modified cellulose or dextrans). The
   inorganic matrix may be, for example, silica gel modified by the addition of ionic
 5 groups. Most ion exchange resins are cross-linked by a crosslinking agent, such as
   divinylbenzene.
            Anti-foaming and/or de-foaming components may also be used with the films.
   These components aid in the removal of air, such as entrapped air, from the film
   forming compositions. Such entrapped air may lead to non-uniform films.
10 Simethicone is one particularly useful anti-foaming and/or de-foaming agent. The
   present invention, however, is not so limited and other anti-foam and/or de-foaming
   agents may suitable be used.
            As a related matter, simethicone and related agents may be employed for
   densification purposes. More specifically, such agents may facilitate the removal of
15 voids, air, moisture, and similar undesired components, thereby providing denser, and
   thus more uniform films. Agents or components which perform this function can be
   referred to as densification or densifying agents. As described above, entrapped air
   or undesired components may lead to non-uniform films.
            Simethicone is generally used in the medical field as a treatment for gas or
20 colic in babies. Simethicone is a mixture of fully methylated linear siloxane polymers
   containing repeating units of polydimethylsiloxane which is stabilized with
   trimethylsiloxy end-blocking unites, and silicon dioxide. It usually contains 90.5
   99% polymethylsiloxane and 4-7% silicon dioxide. The mixture is a gray,
   translucent, viscous fluid which is insoluble in water.
25          When dispersed in water, simethicone will spread across the surface, forming
   a thin film of low surface tension. In this way, simethicone reduces the surface
   tension of bubbles air located in the solution, such as foam bubbles, causing their
   collapse. The function of simethicone mimics the dual action of oil and alcohol in
   water. For example, in an oily solution any trapped air bubbles will ascend to the
30 surface and dissipate more quickly and easily, because an oily liquid has a lighter
   density compared to a water solution. On the other hand, an alcohol/water mixture is
   known to lower water density as well as lower the water's surface tension. So, any air
   bubbles trapped inside this mixture solution will also be easily dissipated.
   Simethicone solution provides both of these advantages. It lowers the surface energy
                                               17

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   of any air bubbles that trapped inside the aqueous solution, as well as lowering the
   surface tension of the aqueous solution. As the result of this unique
   functionality, simethicone has an excellent anti-foaming property that can be used for
   physiological processes (anti-gas in stomach) as well as any for external processes
 5 that require the removal of air bubbles from a product.
           In order to prevent the formation of air bubbles in the films, the mixing step
   may be performed under vacuum. However, as soon as the mixing step is completed,
   and the film solution is returned to the normal atmosphere condition, air will be re
   introduced into or contacted with the mixture. In many cases, tiny air bubbles will be
10 again trapped inside this polymeric viscous solution. The incorporation of
   simethicone into the film-forming composition either substantially reduces or
   eliminates the formation of air bubbles during and after mixing.
            Simethicone may be added to the film-forming mixture as an anti-foaming
   agent in an amount from about 0.01 weight percent to about 5.0 weight percent, more
15 desirably from about 0. 05 weight percent to about 2.5 weight percent, and most
   desirably from about 0. 1 weight percent to about 1.0 weight percent.
           Any other optional components described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent
   No. 7,425,292 and U.S. Application No. 10/856,176, referred to above, also may be
   included in the films described herein.
20         When the dosage form includes at least one antagonist in addition to the
   agonist, it may be desired to control the release of the antagonist, so as to minimize or
   wholly prevent the absorption of the antagonist from the dosage form when taken
   orally. In this fashion, the antagonist may be released faster and a larger proportion of
   it may be present as the ionized form in solution, thereby lessening the likelihood of
25 its absorption in the body. Desirably, the dosage form is a self-supporting film
   composition, which is placed into the oral cavity of the user. In a dosage form that is
   to be placed in the oral cavity, it is desired to absorb the agonist buccally, so as to
   provide rapid absorption of the agonist into the body of the user. At the same time, it
   may be desired to inhibit or reduce absorption of any antagonist buccally, thereby
30 allowing the antagonist to be swallowed and destroyed in the stomach, or in some
   cases absorbed in the colon. Inhibiting the absorption of an antagonist may
   alternatively be achieved via physical means, such as by encapsulating the antagonist
   in a material that blocks absorption. It is desired, however, to reduce the absorption
                                                 18

   WO 2011/017484                                                              PCT/US2010/044490
   of the antagonist by chemical means, such as by controlling the local pH of the dosage
   form.
           It has been found that by controlling the local pH of the dosage form, the
   release and/or absorption of the actives therein may be controlled. For example, in a
 5 dosage that includes an amount of an agonist, the local pH may be controlled to a
   level that optimizes its release and/or absorption into the oral cavity of the user. In
   dosages incorporating an amount of an agonist and an amount of an antagonist, the
   local pH may be controlled to a level that maximizes the release and/or oral
   absorption of the agonist while simultaneously minimizing the release and/or oral
10 absorption of the antagonist. For example, the film dosage may include distinct
   regions, one region including an agonist and the other region including an antagonist,
   where the local pH of each region is optimized for the desired effect.
           The dosage form preferably includes a combination of an agonist and an
   antagonist, while the dosage has a controlled local pH. It should be understood that
15 the present invention is not limited to the use of any one particular agonist and/or
   antagonist, and any agonist (or partial agonist) and any antagonist may be
   incorporated into the present invention. The agonist and optional antagonist should
   be selected from those agonists and antagonists that are useful in treating the
   particular symptom being treated. The inventive films discussed herein are best
20 suited for agonists and/or antagonists that are basic in nature. Suitable agonists
   (and/or partial agonists) may include buprenorphine (pKa       =  8.42), sufentanil (pKa  =
   8.0), morphine (pKa   =  8.0), fentanil (pKa  = 8.4), alfentanil (pKa   = 6.5), pethidine
   (pKa  = 8.7), apomorphine (pKa     = 8.9), alphaprodine (pKa    =  8.7), remifentanil (pKa  =
   7.0), methadone (pKa    =  9.2), codeine (pKa   = 8.2), dihydrocodeine (pKa = 9.4),
25 morphine (pKa    = 8.0), oxycodone (pKa     = 8.53), oxymorphone (pKa       = 8.17), tramadol
   (pKa  = 9.41), or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Suitable antagonists
   (and/or partial antagonists) may include naloxone, naltrexone, nalorphine and
   levallorphan, or therapeutically acceptable salts thereof.
           As discussed above, the local pH of the dosage is preferably controlled to
30 provide the desired release and/or absorption of the agonist and antagonist. Suitable
   agonists may have a pKa of about 5 to about 9.5, and most preferably from about 8.0
   to about 9.0. Suitable antagonists may have a pKa of about 6.0 to about 9.0, and most
   preferably about 7.0 to about 9.0. For example, naloxone has a pKa of about 7.94.
                                                 19

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
            According to pH partition theory, one would expect that saliva (which has a
   local pH of about 6.5) would maximize the absorption of both actives. As generally
   understood, absorption of an active depends on the available unionized form of the
   active. Thus, as the local pH of the surrounding environment is lowered, basic actives
 5 will be more ionized, and less will be available for absorption. For an active which
   has a pKa of about 8, one would expect a higher level of absorption to occur at a local
   pH level of about 6.5, whereas a lower level of absorption should occur at a local pH
   of about 3.5, since most of the active would be ionized. As will be described in more
   detail in the Examples below, controlling the local pH of the film compositions of the
10 present invention provides a system in which the desired release and/or absorption of
   the components is achieved.
            In one embodiment, the dosage form is a self-supporting film. In this
   embodiment, the film dosage includes a polymer carrier matrix, a therapeutically
   effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a
15 buffer. Preferably, the agonist is a partial agonist, and most desirably the agonist is an
   opioid agonist, such as buprenorphine. The buffer is preferably capable of providing
   a local pH of the composition within a range that provides a controllable level and
   desirably an optimal treatment level of absorption of the agonist. For example, it may
   be desired to provide an absorption of buprenorphine that is bioequivalent to a
20 Suboxone@ tablet.
            It has been surprisingly discovered by the Applicants that certain agonists,
   such as buprenorphine, are capable of being suitably absorbed when the local pH of
   the film composition is either between about 3 to about 4 or between about 5 to about
   9. Thus, the local pH for the film including the agonist may be either from about 3 to
25 about 4 or from about 5 to about 9. To provide a maximum absorption of
   buprenorphine, for example, the local pH of the film composition may be about 5.5.
   To provide an absorption of buprenorphine that is bioequivalent to the Suboxone@
   tablet, the local pH of the film composition may be about 6 to about 7. The resulting
   dosage is a film composition that allows for a rapid and effective release of the
30 agonist (such as buprenorphine) into the oral cavity of the user. At the same time, the
   film composition desirably has a sufficient adhesion profile, such that the film cannot
   easily be removed, or cannot be removed at all, from the oral cavity of the user once it
   has been placed into the cavity. Full release of the agonist may take place within less
   than about thirty minutes, e.g., within about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes and
                                                20

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   preferably remains in the oral cavity for at least 1 minute and desirably about 1 to
   about 30 minutes.
           It may be desirable to combine the opioid agonist (or partial agonist) in the
   film composition with an opioid antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
 5 thereof. The agonist and antagonist may be dispersed throughout the dosage
   separately or the agonist and antagonist may be separately dispersed in individual film
   regions. Most desirably the antagonist includes naloxone, but any suitable antagonist
   may be selected as desired. The antagonist may optionally be water-soluble, so as to
   render separation of the antagonist and agonist difficult, thereby lessening the
10 potential for diversion abuse of the agonist.
           As with a film including an agonist, a film including an agonist and an
   antagonist is desirably pH-controlled through the inclusion of a buffer. At the desired
   local pH level of the agonist and the antagonist, optimal absorption of the agonist may
   be achieved while the absorption of the antagonist may be greatly inhibited.
15         The film may contain any desired level of self-supporting film forming
   polymer, such that a self-supporting film composition is provided. In one
   embodiment, the film composition contains a film forming polymer in an amount of at
   least 25% by weight of the composition. The film forming polymer may alternatively
   be present in an amount of at least 50% by weight of the composition, and desirably
20 in a range of about 25% to about   7 5 %, and most desirably from about 30% to about
   50% by weight of the composition. As explained above, any film forming polymers
   may be used as desired.
           Any desired level of agonist and optional antagonist may be included in the
   dosage, so as to provide the desired therapeutic effect. In one particular embodiment,
25 the film composition includes about 2 mg to about 16 mg of agonist per dosage.
   More desirably, the film composition includes about 4 mg to about 12 mg of agonist
   per dosage. If desired, the film composition may include about 0.5 mg to about 5 mg
   of antagonist per dosage. More desirably, the film composition includes about 1 mg
   to about 3 mg of antagonist per dosage. If an antagonist is incorporated into the film,
30 the film composition may include the antagonist in a ratio of about 6:1 - 2:1 agonist
   to antagonist. Most desirably, the film composition contains about 4:1 agonist to
   antagonist per dosage. For example, in one embodiment, the dosage includes an
   agonist in an amount of about 12 mg, and includes an antagonist in an amount of
   about 3 mg.
                                                21

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
            The film compositions further desirably include at least one buffer so as to
   control the local pH of the film composition. Any desired level of buffer may be
   incorporated into the film composition so as to provide the desired local pH level.
   The buffer is preferably provided in an amount sufficient to control the release from
 5 the film and/or the absorption into the body of the agonist and the optional antagonist.
   In a desired embodiment, the film composition includes buffer in a ratio of buffer to
   agonist in an amount of from about 2:1 to about 1:5 (buffer:agonist). The buffer may
   alternatively be provided in a 1:1 ratio of buffer to agonist. A film composition
   including an antagonist preferably has a local pH of about 2 to about 4. Any buffer
10 may be used as desired. In some embodiments, the buffer may include sodium citrate,
   citric acid, succinic acid, malic acid, phosphoric acid, boric acid, and combinations
   thereof. The buffer may include a buffering system including a combination of
   components, such as Citric Acid/Sodium Citrate, Succinic Acid/Monosodium
   Succinate, Glycine/SodiumGlycine, Malic Acid/Sodium Malate, Phosphoric
15 Acid/Sodium Phosphate, Fumaric Acid/Sodium Fumarate, Monosodium
   Phosphate/Disodium Phosphate, and Boric Acid/Sodium Borate.
            In this embodiment, the resulting film composition includes a polymer matrix,
   an agonist, and an optional antagonist, while the film composition has a controlled
   local pH to the level desired. The buffer is desirably present in an amount to provide
20 a therapeutically adequate absorption of the agonist, while simultaneously limiting or
   preventing substantial absorption of the antagonist. Controlling of the local pH
   allows for the desired release and/or absorption of the components, and thus provides
   a more useful and effective dosage.
            The film dosage composition may include a polymer carrier matrix, a
25 therapeutically effective amount of agonist, a therapeutically effective amount of
   antagonist, and a buffering system. A "therapeutically effective amount" of an
   antagonist is intended to refer to an amount of the antagonist that is useful in diverting
   abuse of the agonist by a user. The buffering system may include a buffer in addition
   to a solvent. The buffering system desirably includes a sufficient level of buffer so as
30 to provide a desired local pH level of the film dosage composition.
            In addition to a desired local pH level, the buffer desirably has a buffer
   capacity sufficient to maintain ionization of the optional antagonist during the time
   that the composition is in the oral cavity of a user. Maintaining ionization of the
   antagonist serves to limit the absorption of the antagonist, and thus provide the
                                                22

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   desired control of the antagonist. While the ionization of the antagonist is limited, the
   ionization of the agonist may not be so limited. As such, the resulting dosage form
   provides absorption of the agonist to the user, while sufficiently reducing and/or
   preventing absorption of the antagonist.
 5         In other embodiments, the film dosage composition of the present invention
   may include an agonist in a sufficient amount so as to provide a release profile
   bioequivalent to a tablet containing a higher amount of the agonist. By providing a
   film dosage composition with an agonist and simultaneously controlling the local pH
   of the film dosage composition, an effective release and absorption of the agonist may
10 be achieved with less of the agonist present in the dosage. For example, the film
   dosage composition may include an agonist in an amount that is at least 1.5 times less
   than the amount of the agonist required in a tablet, but still provides a bioequivalent
   release profile. In some embodiments, the agonist may be a partial agonist. In some
   embodiments the agonist may be an opioid agonist. In desired embodiments, the
15 agonist includes buprenorphine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
           The film dosage composition including an agonist, may be configured to
   provide an in vivo plasma profile having a mean maximum plasma concentration
   (Cmax) in a desired range. For example, the desired Cmax may be a bioequivalent
   level to that of a Suboxone@ tablet. It has been discovered by the Applicants that
20 controlling the Cmax of the film composition allows one to control the absorption of
   the active (such as an agonist) into the user. The resulting film composition is more
   effective and suitable for delivery to a user.
           In one embodiment, the Cmax of the film composition may be about 6.4 ng/ml
   or less. If desired, the Cmax of the film composition may be less than about 5.2
25 ng/ml, less than about 3.8 ng/ml, less than about 1.9 ng/ml, or less than about 1.1
   ng/ml, depending on the desired dosage level. In such embodiments, the agonist may
   be present in an amount of from about 2 mg to about 16 mg per dosage, or, if desired
   about 4 mg to about 12 mg per dosage. The agonist may include buprenorphine or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
30         It has further been discovered that, by controlling the mean area under the
   curve (AUC) value of the film composition, a more effective dosage form may be
   provided. In one embodiment, the film composition may include a mean AUC value
   of about 6.8 hr.ng/ml or greater. Alternatively, the film composition may include a
   mean AUCinf value of from about 6.8 hr.ng/ml to about 66 hr.ng/ml.
                                               23

   WO 2011/017484                                                            PCT/US2010/044490
            As explained above, the film compositions may include an optional antagonist.
   When the film composition includes a combination of agonist and antagonist, the film
   composition may be configured to provide a particular Cmax and/or AUC for the
   antagonist. For example, when a buprenorphine agonist and a naloxone antagonist are
 5 incorporated into the film composition, the naloxone may be configured to provide a
   Cmax of less than about 400 pg/ml, less than about 318 pg/ml, less than about 235
   pg/ml, less than about 92 pg/ml or less than about 64 pg/ml. In such films, the
   naloxone may provide a mean AUC value of less than about 1030 hr.ng/ml.
            In formulations which include an agonist in combination with an antagonist,
10 the film composition may be prepared to provide a desired Cmax and/or AUC value
   for each of the agonist and antagonist. For example, a dosage having 16 mg of
   agonist and 4 mg of antagonist may provide an in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax
   of less than about 6.4 ng/ml for the agonist and an in vivo plasma profile having a
   Cmax of less than about 400 pg/ml for the antagonist. Such formulation may also
15 provide an AUC value of more than about 6.8 hr.ng/ml for the agonist. If desired, the
   formulation may provide an AUCinf value of less than about 1030 hr.pg/ml for the
   antagonist. Bioequivalence levels are set forth in more detail in the Examples
   discussed below. Such compositions may include the agonist and the antagonist in
   any desired amount, and in a preferred embodiment, the composition includes about 2
20 mg to about 16 mg of the agonist per dosage and about 0.5 mg to about 4 mg of the
   antagonist per dosage. Most desirably, the agonist and antagonist are present in
   amounts of about 4:1 by weight agonist to antagonist.
            In one particular embodiment, there may be provided a self-supporting film
   dosage composition including more than one region (referred to as a "dual-film
25 product" or a "dual-region product"). The multiple regions may be disposed on top of
   each other, to the side of each other, or disposed internally of each other. For
   example, the dosage composition may include two separate regions, disposed in such
   a configuration where the first region is on top of the second region, or vice versa. If
   desired, the two regions may be laminated to each other so as to provide a single
30 dosage form. In such embodiments, the first region may be dried prior to laminating
   any additional regions thereto. Similarly, the second region may be dried prior to
   laminating the first region thereto. Alternatively, either the first or second region may
   be at least partially dried prior to laminating any additional regions thereto.
                                                 24

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
            In such multi-region embodiments, there is provided a first region, which
   includes a first polymeric matrix and a therapeutically effective amount of an agonist.
   The agonist may be a partial agonist, and the agonist may be an opioid agonist. One
   such opioid agonist includes buprenorphine, but any desired agonist may be used to
 5 treat the particular symptom desired. The first region desirably includes a first
   buffering system in an amount sufficient to provide a local pH of the agonist so as to
   optimize the release and/or absorption of the agonist. The first region may be in
   communication with a second region. The second region may include a second
   polymeric matrix and a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist. One such
10 antagonist includes naloxone, but any desired antagonist may be used as desired. The
   second region may further include a second buffering system in an amount sufficient
   to provide a local pH of the antagonist so as to inhibit the absorption of the antagonist.
   In some embodiments, it may be desirable to have one region be dissolved at a faster
   rate than the second region when it is placed into the mouth of the user. For example,
15 it may be desired to have the region including an antagonist dissolve at a faster rate
   than the region including an agonist, or vice versa.
            In such multi-region film dosages, the first and second regions may work in
   cooperation to provide a desired absorption profile of the agonist and the antagonist.
   For example, the first buffering system may be present in an amount sufficient to
20 provide increased absorption of the agonist, while the second buffering system is
   present in an amount sufficient to provide a decreased absorption of the antagonist. In
   some embodiments, the first buffering system may be present in an amount sufficient
   to provide a local pH of the first region so as to provide an optimum absorption of the
   agonist, i.e., of from either about 3 to about 4 or of from about 4 to about 9, and more
25 specifically from about 6 to about 9. In some embodiments, the second buffering
   system may be present in an amount sufficient to provide a local pH of the second
   region of from about 2 to about 4, and more specifically about 2 to about 3. For a
   multi-region film dosage including buprenorphine in the first region and naloxone in
   the second region, the local pH of the buprenorphine region is desirably either from
30 about 3 to about 4 or from about 5.5 to about 6.5, and the local pH of the naloxone
   region is about 2.0 to about 3.0.
            Depending on the particular agonist and antagonist incorporated in the dosage,
   the desired local pH level for each region may be greater or lower so as to optimize
   absorption of the agonist while inhibiting absorption of the antagonist. Generally, the
                                                25

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   local pH of the agonist-containing region is desirably between about 4 to about 9, and
   most desirably about 6 to about 9. The local pH for the antagonist-containing region
   is most desirably about 2 to about 4. Again, however, it will be understood that the
   particular agonist incorporated into the dosage may be more optimally absorbed at a
 5 higher or lower pH.
           The first and second buffering systems may be the same or they may be
   different. Additionally, the first polymeric matrix and the second polymeric matrix
   may be the same or they may be different. Any desired levels of agonist and
   antagonist may be provided, and desirably the dosage composition includes about 2
10 mg to about 16 mg of the agonist and about 0.5 mg to about 4 mg of the antagonist
   per dosage unit. More desirably, the dosage composition includes about 4 mg to
   about 12 mg of the agonist and about 1 mg to about 3 mg of the antagonist per dosage
   unit.
           The first and second regions may be formed together in any desired means. In
15 one embodiment, the second region may be coated, sprayed, or placed onto at least
   one surface of the first region. Alternatively, the first and second regions may be co
   extruded. In some embodiments, the first and second regions may be laminated to
   each other by means of a suitable composition. Further, the first region may be
   formed first, and then subsequently dipped into a solution of a wet composition,
20 which is then allowed to dry and form the second region. As will be understood by
   one of ordinary skill in the art, the first region may include the antagonist while the
   second region includes the agonist. Further, both regions may include a desired
   amount of agonist and antagonist so as to provide a desired release and absorption.
           The first region may include more components by weight than the second
25 region, or vice versa. For example, the first region may have a total weight that is
   more than the total weight of the second region, or vice versa. Alternatively, the first
   and second regions may include the same amount of components by weight.
           In another embodiment, there may be provided a self-supporting film dosage
   composition having more than one region, where each region includes a polymeric
30 matrix and a water-soluble and/or a water-insoluble active. The dosage composition
   preferably includes a therapeutically effective amount of a water-soluble active and a
   therapeutically effective amount of water-insoluble active. Each region preferably
   includes a buffer in an amount sufficient to control the absorption profiles of the
   water-soluble and water-insoluble actives in each region, depending on the desired
                                                  26

   WO 2011/017484                                                             PCT/US2010/044490
   level of absorption of the active desired. In one desired embodiment, a first buffer is
   present in the first region in an amount sufficient to obtain a local pH of one region of
   about 2 to about 4, while a second buffer is present in the second region in an amount
   sufficient to obtain a local pH of the second region of about 4 to about 9.
 5         The present invention provides a method of treating various problems in a
   patient, including, for example physical pain experienced by a patient. Desirably, the
   patient is treated by providing a dosage to the patient, which provides an effective
   release of therapeutic active but simultaneously provides a suitable adhesion so that
   the dosage cannot be easily removed. The dosage forms provided herein are
10 particularly useful in preventing diversion of a drug. In one method of treatment, an
   orally dissolvable film composition is provided to a patient.
           Depending on the particular symptom sought to be treated, the film
   composition may include one or more particular active components. In one
   embodiment, the film composition includes a polymer carrier matrix and a
15 therapeutically effective amount of an agonist. Desirably the agonist is a partial
   agonist. For some types of pain, the agonist may be an opioid agonist, such as
   buprenorphine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The film composition
   preferably includes a buffer in an amount sufficient to control the local pH of the film
   composition. Any buffer or buffering system may be used, including those listed
20 above. Desirably, the local pH of the film composition including an agonist is
   buffered to be about 4 to about 9, depending on the particular agonist included in the
   composition. In some embodiments, such as when the agonist is buprenorphine, the
   desired local pH is about 5 to about 6.5, and most desirably the local pH is about 5.5
   to about 6.5. At this level, the absorption of the agonist may be optimized. To treat
25 the pain, the film composition is administered to the patient, most desirably into the
   oral cavity of the patient, such as through buccal absorption.
           If desired, the composition may include a therapeutically effective amount of
   an antagonist. As explained above, the combination of an agonist and antagonist may
   help minimize potential abuse of the agonist. The antagonist may be any desired
30 antagonist, and in one embodiment includes naloxone or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof. The film composition is preferably administered to patient
   through the oral cavity of the patient, but may be administered in any desired means.
   The orally dissolvable film composition is then allowed to dissolve in the oral cavity
   of the patient for a sufficient time so as to release the active(s) therein. In some
                                                 27

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   embodiments, the film composition may remain in the oral cavity for at least 30
   seconds, and in some embodiments may remain in the oral cavity for at least 1
   minute. After the film composition is placed into the oral cavity of the patient, the
   film preferably becomes sufficiently adhered so as to render its removal difficult.
 5 After the film composition has been administered to the patient, the active(s) are
   sufficiently released from the composition and allowed to take effect on the patient.
            In embodiments where there is a dual-region film composition, the
   administration of the dosage may have regions of differing dissolution rates. For
   example, the first region of the film composition may include an agonist and a
10 moderate dissolving polymer. Desirably, the first region remains in the oral cavity for
   at least one minute, and up to about 30 minutes. The second region, which may
   include an antagonist, desirably contains a fast dissolving polymer. As such, the
   second region dissolves within less than one minute, thereby releasing the antagonist
   into the body where it is ingested and ionized. In this way, the antagonist is
15 swallowed, thereby avoiding buccal absorption. However, the antagonist is still
   present in the film composition before administration so as to limit potential abuse of
   the drug should a user attempt to extract the agonist from the composition.
            The film compositions of the present invention may be formed via any desired
   process. Suitable processes are set forth in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,425,292 and 7,357,891,
20 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. In one
   embodiment, the film dosage composition is formed by first preparing a wet
   composition, the wet composition including a polymeric carrier matrix, a
   therapeutically effective amount of an agonist, and a buffer in an amount sufficient to
   control the local pH of the composition to a desired level. The wet composition is
25 cast into a film and then sufficiently dried to form a self-supporting film composition.
   The wet composition may be cast into individual dosages, or it may be cast into a
   sheet, where the sheet is then cut into individual dosages. The agonist may be a
   partial agonist. If desired, the wet composition may include a therapeutically
   effective amount of an antagonist. In some embodiments, especially in single-region
30 dosages, the local pH of the film may be about 2 to about 4, and more particularly
   between about 3 to about 4.
            The agonist and the optional antagonist are preferably selected to treat a
   particular problem, such as treatment of physical pain suffered by a patient. For
   example, the agonist may include buprenorphine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
                                               28

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
   thereof, while the antagonist may include naloxone or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt thereof. The film composition includes at least one buffer or buffering system so
   as to control the local pH of the agonist and antagonist to desired levels. In this
   fashion, the absorption of the agonist may be optimized while the absorption of the
 5 antagonist may be inhibited. In one desired embodiment, the inventive film provides
   an absorption of the agonist that is bioequivalent to that of a Suboxone@ tablet.
           If the desired optimum absorption of the agonist is to provide a bioequivalent
   absorption to that of a Suboxone@ tablet, the local pH of the film composition should
   provide a local pH of the agonist of either between about 3 to about 4 or between
10 about 5.5 to about 6.5, and a local pH of the antagonist of between about 2 to about 4.
   In a film composition including only one region with the agonist and antagonist, the
   local pH is desirably about 3 to about 4 to provide a bioequivalent absorption to the
   Suboxone@ tablet.
15 EXAMPLES
   Example 1 - Composition of Buprenorphine/Naloxone Films at Various Strengths
           Film strips including a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone were
   prepared. Four different strength film compositions were prepared, which include a
   ratio of buprenorphine to naloxone of 16/4, 12/3, 8/2, and 2/0.5. The compositions
20 are summarized in Table 1 below.
                       Table 1 - Various Compositions of Film Dosages
                      Components                   Buprenorphine/Naloxone Films
                                                  Unit Formula (mg per film strip)
          Buprenorphine/Naloxone Ratios           16/4     12/3     8/2      2/0.5
          Active Components
              Buprenorphine HCl                   17.28    12.96    8.64     2.16
              Naloxone HCl Dihydrate             4.88      3.66     2.44      0.61
          Inactive Components
              Polyethylene Oxide, NF             27.09     20.32    13.55     -
              (MW 200,000)
              Polyethylene Oxide, NF              12.04    9.03     6.02      19.06
              (MW 100,000)
              Polyethylene Oxide, NF             4.82      3.62     2.41     2.05
                                               29

   WO 2011/017484                                                         PCT/US2010/044490
              (MW 900,000)
              Maltitol, NF                      12.04     9.03    6.02      5.87
              Flavor                            6.0       4.5     3.0       2.4
              Citric Acid, USP                  5.92      4.44    2.96      2.96
              HPMC                              4.22      3.16    2.11      2.34
              Ace-K                             3.0       2.25    1.5       1.2
              Sodium Citrate, anhydrous         2.68      2.01    1.34      1.34
              Colorant                          0.03      0.02    0.01      0.01
          Total (mg)                            100       75      50        40
   Example 2 - Absorption studies for Suboxone@ tablets
           Various film and tablet products were prepared and tested for absorption data,
 5 including Cmax and AUC absorption levels. The products tested included
   Suboxone@ tablets made with either 2 mg or 16 mg buprenorphine as well as either
   0.5 mg or 4.0 mg naloxone. For 16 mg buprenorphine tablets, two 8 mg
   buprenorphine tablets were combined together to provide the level of components of a
   16 mg buprenorphine tablet. In instances where a 12 mg buprenorphine tablet was
10 evaluated, this dosage was obtained by combining one 8 mg buprenorphine tablet and
   two 2 mg buprenorphine tablets. These products were tested for absorption levels,
   with the amounts listed in Table 2 below.
                      Table 2 - Absorption Data for Suboxone@ products
15
       Sample                                        C max           AUC
       Buprenorphine (2 mg) Suboxone Tablet         0.780 ng/ml     6.789 hr*ng/ml
       Naloxone (0.5 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet            51.30 pg/ml      128.60 hr*pg/ml
       Buprenorphine (16 mg) Suboxone@               4.51 ng/ml      44.99 hr*ng/ml
       Tablet
       Naloxone (4 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet              259.00 pg/ml    649.60 hr*pg/ml
           Using the data from Table 2, absorption data for the Suboxone@ tablets for
   other levels of buprenorphine and naloxone are set forth in Table 2A below.
                      Table 2A -Absorption Data for Suboxone@ tablets
20
       Sample                                        C max           AUC
       Buprenorphine (4 mg) Suboxone Tablet         1.35 ng/ml       12.25 hr*ng/ml
       Naloxone (1 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet              80.97 pg/ml     203 hr*pg/ml
                                             30

   WO 2011/017484                                                          PCT/US2010/044490
       Buprenorphine (8 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet          2.29 ng/ml       23.17 hr*ng/ml
       Naloxone (2 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet               140.31 pg/ml     351.8 hr*pg/ml
       Buprenorphine (12 mg) Suboxone@                3.23 ng/ml       34.08 hr*ng/ml
       Tablet
       Naloxone (3 mg) Suboxone@ Tablet               199.7 pg/ml      500.6 hr*pg/ml
   Example 3 - Evaluation of Bioequivalence of Suboxone@ Tablets
 5          Using the data generated for Suboxone@ tablets in Table 2 above, acceptable
   bioequivalence ranges are generated so as to provide an equivalent treatment level as
   the Suboxone@ tablet. As currently understood, a product provides a bioequivalent
   effect if it provides absorption levels between about 80% to about 125% of the
   Suboxone@ tablet. Absorption in this range is considered to be bioequivalent.
10
      Table 3 - Acceptable Bioequivalence Ranges for Suboxone@ Tablets (80 to 125%)
      Description of Sample       C max                       AUC
      Buprenorphine 2 mg           0.624 to 0.975 ng/ml       5.431 to 8.486 hr*ng/ml
      Naloxone 0.5 mg             41.04 to 64.13 pg/ml        102.88 to 160.75 hr*pg/ml
      Buprenorphine 16 mg          3.608 to 5.638 ng/ml       35.992 to 56.238 hr*ng/ml
      Naloxone 4 mg               207.20 to 323.75 pg/ml      519.68 to 812.00 hr*pg/ml
            Thus, to be considered bioequivalent to the Suboxone@ tablet, the Cmax of
15 buprenorphine is between about 0.624 and 5.638, and the AUC of buprenorphine is
   between about 5.431 to about 56.238. Similarly, to be considered bioequivalent to the
   Suboxone@ tablet, the Cmax of naloxone is between about 41.04 to about 323.75, and
   the AUC of naloxone is between about 102.88 to about 812.00.
20 Example 4 - Composition of Buprenorphine Films at Various Strengths
            Film strips including a buprenorphine were prepared. Two different strength
   film compositions were prepared, which include buprenorphine in a dosage amount of
   8 mg and in a dosage amount of 2 mg. The compositions are summarized in Table 4
   below.
25                      Table 4 - Various Compositions of Film Dosages
               Components                            Buprenorphine Films
                                               Unit Formula (mg per film strip)
                                                31

   WO 2011/017484                                                        PCT/US2010/044490
              Buprenorphine                   8.64             2.16
              Inactive Components
                  Polyethylene Oxide, NF      17.66            21.87
                  (MW 100,000)
                  Polyethylene Oxide, NF      2.17             2.35
                  (MW 900,000)
                  Maltitol, NF                5.43             6.72
                  Flavor                      2.8              2.8
                  HPMC                        1.9              2.69
                  Ace-K                       1.2              1.2
                  Colorant                    0.2              0.2
              Total (mg)                      40               40
   Example 5 - Cmax and AUCinf Levels for Film Strips Incorporating Buprenorphine
           Five film dosage compositions were prepared, each including buprenorphine
   in a dosage of from 2 mg to 16 mg. Table 5 below sets forth Cmax and AUCinf
 5 levels for various dosage levels of film compositions including buprenorphine.
                       Table 5 - Cmax and AUCinf Levels for Film Strips
                                  Incorporating Buprenorphine
                  Buprenorphine        Cmax              AUCinf
                  2 mg                 0.7 - 1.07 ng/ml  6.8 - 9.5 hr.ng/ml
                  4 mg                 1.2-1.84 ng/ml    11.2-16.7 hr.ng/ml
                  8 mg                 2.3-3.8 ng/ml     22.7-34.1 hr.ng/ml
                  12 mg                2.8-5.2 ng/ml     30.4-48.6 hr.ng/ml
                  16 mg                4.08-6.4 ng/ml    42.6-65.8 hr.ng/ml
   Example 6 - Preparation of Films For In Vivo Study
10         Film dosages were prepared for use in an in vivo study to determine the
   bioavailability of buprenorphine/naloxone tablets and film formulations. Specifically,
   the films were tested to determine whether the film provides a bioequivalent effect to
   that of a tablet formulation.
           Three film formulations including 8 mg buprenorphine and 2 mg naloxone
15 were prepared, each being buffered to a different pH. The first film did not include
   any buffer, providing a local pH of about 6.5. The second was buffered to a local pH
                                                32

   WO 2011/017484                                                             PCT/US2010/044490
   level of about 3-3.5. The third was buffered to a local pH value of about 5-5.5. The
   formulations are set forth in Table 6 below.
                   Table 6 - Formulations of Test Films at Various pH Levels
 5
   Component           Test formulation 1        Test formulation 2       Test formulation 3
                            8 mg/2 mg                 8 mg/2 mg                 8 mg/2 mg
                             pH= 6.5                  pH = 3-3.5               pH = 5-5.5
                      %w/w        Mg/film      %w/w         Mg/film    |%w/w           Mg/film
   Buprenorphine      21.61        8.64        17.28        8.64         17.28         8.64
   HCl
   Naloxone HCl       6.10        2.44         4.88         2.44        4.88           2.44
   Dihydrate
   Polymer            5.05        2.02         4.82         2.41        4.82           2.41
   Polymer            28.48        11.39       27.09        13.55       27.09          13.55
   Polymer            12.65       5.06         12.04        6.02         12.04         6.02
   Polymer            4.43         1.77        4.22         2.11        4.22           2.11
   Sweetener          12.65       5.06         12.04        6.02         12.04         6.02
   Sweetener          3            1.2         3            1.5         3              1.5
   Flavor             6           2.4          6            3           6              3
   Citric acid        0           0            5.92         2.96        2.51           1.26
   Sodium citrate     0           0            2.68         1.34        6.08           3.04
   FD&C yellow        0.025       0.01         0.03         0.02        0.03           0.02
   #6
   Total              100         40           100          50          100            50
   Example 7 - Analysis of In Vivo Absorption of Film Having a pH of 6.5
           The film dosage composition of film having a local pH of 6.5 was analyzed.
   Specifically, Test Formulation 1, as prepared in Example 5 was analyzed in vivo to
10 determine the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone. The comparative film
   was compared to the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone provided by a one
   dose tablet (Suboxone@). The test film was compared to determine whether it
   provided a bioequivalent effect as the Suboxone@ tablet.
           The results for Test Formulation 1, which had a local pH of about 6.5, as
15 compared to the one dose tablet, are set forth in Tables 7 and 8 below.
          Table 7 - Buprenorphine In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 1
                            Suboxone sublingual               Test Formulation 1
                                                                     (pH = 6.5)
          Parameter     n      Mean      SD       CV%     n      Mean     SD       CV%
          Tmax (hr)      15    1.60      0.47     29.41    15    1.50     0.62     41.23
             axmL)       15    2.27      0.562    24.77    15    2.60     0.872    33.53
          AUCiast        15    27.08     10.40    38.41    15    31.00    12.93    41.72
                                                33

   WO 2011/017484                                                                PCT/US2010/044490
          (hr*ng/mL)
          AUCif          15      29.58         11.15   37.68   15   33.37    13.88   41.61
          (hr*ng/mL)
          T 1 / 2 (hr)   15      44.76         20.86  46.60    15   40.73    14.93   36.66
               Table 8 - Naloxone In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 1
                              Suboxone sublingual                Test Formulation 1
                                                                       (pH = 6.5)
            Parameter     n      Mean         SD     CV%     n     Mean    SD       CV%
            Tm.x (hr)      15    0.90         0.23   25.32   15    0.68    0.18     25.75
            Cmax           15    94.6         39.1   41.33   15    410     122      29.75
            (pg/mL)
            AUCIast        15    297.1        120.7  40.62   15    914.8   158.1    17.29
            (hr*pg/mL)
            AUCif          15    306.1        122.6  40.06   15    924.2   158.8    17.18
            (hr*pg/mL)          _____________
            T 1 /2 (hr)    15    6.62         2.60   39.26   15    6.86    2.08     30.27
 5         As can be seen, the in vivo data indicates that buprenorphine is absorbed very
   well from the film formulation at a local pH of 6.5, and matched closely the
   absorption seen in the Suboxone@ one dose tablet. However, the absorption was also
   maximized for the naloxone, which was undesirable. It was determined that a film
   having a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone and a local pH of 6.5 did not
10 provide a bioequivalent effect as the one dose Suboxone@ tablet for both
   buprenorphine and naloxone.
   Example 8 - Analysis of In Vivo Absorption of Film Having a pH of 5-5.5
           Having determined the absorption of buprenorphine and naloxone in film
15 having a local pH of 6.5, a film dosage composition of film having a local pH of 5-5.5
   was analyzed. Specifically, Test Formulation 3, as prepared in Example 5 was
   analyzed in vivo to determine the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone. The
   comparative films were compared to the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone
   provided by a one dose tablet (Suboxone@). The test film was compared to determine
20 whether it provided a bioequivalent effect as the tablet product.
           The results for Test Formulation 3, which had a local pH of about 5-5.5, as
   compared to the one dose tablet, are set forth in Tables 9 and 10 below.
          Table 9 - Buprenorphine In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 3
25
                              Suboxone sublingual                Test Formulation 3
                                                                     (pH = 5-5.5)
                                                     34

   WO 2011/017484                                                                  PCT/US2010/044490
            Parameter     n      Mean          SD          CV%   n   Mean    SD       CV%
            Tmax (hr)     15     1.60          0.47        29.41 14  1.50    0.43     28.50
            Cmax          15     2.27          0.562       24.77 14  3.47    1.57     45.40
            (ng/mL)
            AUCIast       15     27.08         10.40       38.41 14  33.25   16.01    48.16
            (hr*ng/mL)
            AUC.,         15     29.58         11.15       37.68 13  38.34   15.38    40.13
            (hr*ng/mL)   ___    ____          ____________           ____
            T 1 /2 (hr)   15     44.76         20.86       46.60 13  41.71   17.70    42.42
             Table 10 - Naloxone In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 3
                             Suboxone@ sublingual                   Test Formulation 3
                                                                        (pH = 5-5.5)
            Parameter     n      Mean          SD          CV%   n   Mean    SD       CV%
            Tmax (hr)     15     0.90          0.23        25.32 14  0.98    0.62     63.51
            Cmax          15     94.6          39.1        41.33 14  173     84.5     48.79
            (pg/mL)
            AUCIast       15     297.1         120.7       40.62 14  455.2   195.5    42.94
            (hr*pg/mL)
            AUCif         15     306.1         122.6       40.06 13  474.4   203.1    42.81
            (hr*pg/mL)          _____________
            T 1 /2 (hr)   15     6.62          2.60        39.26 13  9.45    6.90     73.00
 5         As can be seen, the in vivo data indicated that the absorption of buprenorphine
   increased as the local pH level decreased. It appeared that by decreasing the local pH
   from 6.5 to 5.5, the absorption of buprenorphine was being moved to a level much
   greater than that of the one dose Suboxone@ tablet. In addition, the naloxone values
   did not provide a bioequivalent result as the one dose tablet. Thus, it was determined
10 that the film having a local pH of 5.5 did not provide a bioequivalent result as that of
   the Suboxone@ tablet for both buprenorphine and naloxone.
           It was noted that by reducing the local pH of the film to a level of 5.5, there
   would be provided an increased level of absorption of buprenorphine. Thus, it may be
   desirable to buffer a film composition incorporating buprenorphine itself to a level of
15 about 5.5 to provide an increased absorption.
   Example 9 - Analysis of In Vivo Absorption of Film Having a pH of 3-3.5
           Having determined the absorption of buprenorphine and naloxone in films
   having a local pH of 6.5 and 5.5, a film dosage composition of film having a local pH
20 of about 3-3.5 was analyzed. It was assumed that the absorption of buprenorphine
   would continue to be increased as it had demonstrated at a local pH of 5.5. Thus, it
   was assumed that at a local pH of 3.5, the film would not be bioequivalent to that of
   the tablet.
                                                           35

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
           Specifically, Test Formulation 2, as prepared in Example 5, was analyzed in
   vivo to determine the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone. The comparative
   films were compared to the absorption of buprenorphine and of naloxone provided by
   a one dose tablet (Suboxone@). The test film was compared to determine whether it
 5 provided a bioequivalent effect as the tablet product.
           The results for Test Formulation 2, which had a local pH of about 3-3.5, as
   compared to the one dose tablet, are set forth in Tables 11 and 12 below.
         Table 11 - Buprenorphine In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 2
10
                           Suboxone sublingual             Test Formulation 2
                                                                (pH = 3-3.5)
           Parameter     n     Mean         SD    CV%   n    Mean     SD       CV%
           Tmax (hr)     15    1.60         0.47  29.41 14    1.68    0.58     34.68
           Cmax          15    2.27         0.562 24.77 14   2.68     0.910    33.99
           (ng/mL)
           AUCIast       15    27.08        10.40 38.41 14   29.73    12.05    40.54
           (hr*ng/mL)
           AUCif         15    29.58        11.15 37.68 14    31.45   12.98    41.26
           (hr*ng/mL)         _____________
           T 1 /2 (hr)   15    44.76        20.86 46.60 14    30.03   13.95    46.46
            Table 12 - Naloxone In Vivo Absorption Data for Test Formulation 2
                           Suboxone sublingual             Test Formulation 2
                                                                (pH = 3-3.5)
           Parameter     n     Mean         SD    CV%   n    Mean     SD       CV%
           Tmax (hr)     15    0.90         0.23  25.32 14    0.84    0.19     22.19
           Cmax          15    94.6         39.1  41.33 14    130     72.9     56.04
           (pg/mL)
           AUCIast       15    297.1        120.7 40.62 14    362.2   155.9    43.03
           (hr*pg/mL)
           AUC.,         15    306.1        122.6 40.06 12    350.4   142.3    40.61
           (hr*pg/mL)         _____________
           T 1 /2 (hr)   15    6.62         2.60  39.26 12    8.07    4.75     58.84
15         As can be seen, the in vivo data indicated that the absorption of buprenorphine
   was substantially bioequivalent to that of the one dose tablet when the film
   composition local pH was lowered to about 3-3.5. This result was surprising as it did
   not appear to follow the pH partition theory. Further, at a local pH of about 3-3.5, it
   was seen that the absorption of naloxone was substantially bioequivalent to that of the
20 one dose tablet.
           Thus, it was determined that the film product including buprenorphine and
   naloxone at a local pH of 3-3.5 was substantially bioequivalent to that of the
                                                  36

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   Suboxone@ one dose tablet. It was therefore evident that one could formulate the
   naloxone at a local pH of 3.5 or lower to inhibit its absorption, and formulate the
   buprenorphine at a local pH of about 5.5 to optimize its absorption.
 5 Example 10 - Normalized Values for Naloxone in Films and Tablets
           Various film compositions including buprenorphine and naloxone in 8/2 mg
   and 2/0.5 mg dosages, and having different local pH values from 6.5 to 3.5, were
   prepared and analyzed. The data was normalized and compared to the one dose
   Suboxone@ tablet. The results are set forth in Table 13 below.
10          Table 13 - Normalized Values for Naloxone Film Compared to Tablet
       pH        Dose (mg)         AUC               Cmax      Mg          Ratio Citric
                                   (Normalized)                Citric      Acid
                 Buprenorphine/                                Acid        (mg)/Naloxone
                Naloxone                                                   (mg)
       6.5       8/2               3.02              4.33       1.34       0.67
       5.5       8/2                1.55             1.83       1.34       0.67
       3.5       8/2                1.14             1.37       1.34       0.67
       3.5       2/0.5             0.98              0.90       1.34       2.68
       5.5       2/0.5              1.41             1.41       1.34       2.68
           The data indicates that not only is the local pH of significant importance, but
   the amount of acid present in the formula is also important. The improvement from
   the 8/2 dose to the 2/0.5 dose (at a local pH of 3.5) demonstrates this importance. The
15 8/2 dose has a ratio of acid/naloxone of 0.67, and this dose provided borderline
   acceptable bioequivalent results. In contrast, the 2/0.5 dose has a ratio of
   acid/naloxone of 2.68 at a local pH of 3.5, and provides a more bioequivalent
   absorption value than the 8/2 dose.
           In fact, the data shows that the 2/0.5 dose at a local pH of 3.5 had an even
20 lower buccal absorption than the one dose tablet, as seen from the normalized values
   for the AUC and Cmax. This demonstrates that even less absorption of the naloxone
   occurs for the film formulation at a local pH of 3.5 than the tablet formulation. Given
   the goal of reducing the absorption of naloxone, it appears that the film product
   buffered at a local pH of 3.5 with a buffer ratio (buffer/naloxone) of 2.68 provides
25 even better results than the Suboxone@ formulation.
                                                37

   WO 2011/017484                                                           PCT/US2010/044490
   Example 11 -Absorption Data for Dual-Film Dosage at local pH 3.5 and local pH 5.5
            A dual-film dosage is prepared, with the first film layer having a local pH of
   about 3.5 and containing an antagonist therein, and the second film layer having a
   local pH of about 5.5 and containing an agonist therein. In this dual-film dosage, the
 5 first film layer (having the antagonist) is a fast-dissolving film, while the second film
   layer (having the agonist) is a moderate dissolving film. Using data from the above
   studies, absorption levels for various amounts of product in the film is presented in
   Table 14 below:
                  Table 14 - Extrapolated Absorption Data for Dual-Layered
10              Film at Agonist Local pH of 3.5 and Naloxone Local pH of 5.5
                           Dose           Naloxone         Naloxone AUC
                        (mg agonist /   Cmax (pg/ml)         (hr*pg/ml)
                       mg naloxone)
                           2/0.5             32.5                90.5
                             8/2              130                362
                            16/4              260                724
            Therefore, at amounts of 0.5-4.0 mg, the Cmax level for the Naloxone is
   between about 32.5 to about 260 pg/ml and the AUC for the Naloxone is between
15 about 90.5 to about 724 hr*pg/ml. As will be understood, varying types and levels of
   buffers may increase or decrease the absorption values. That is, when seeking to
   inhibit the absorption of the antagonist (i.e., naloxone), one may select a particular
   local pH for the agonist region and a second local pH for the antagonist region. The
   local pH of the region may depend on the amount of active included in that region.
20 The amounts of actives incorporated into the dosage may be altered to provide
   suitable absorption levels, and may include amounts in milligrams, nanograms,
   picograms, or any desired amount of active.
                                                38

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
      1. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
               a. A polymeric carrier matrix;
 5             b. A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically
                   acceptable salt thereof; and
               c.  a buffer sufficient to maximize the absorption of the agonist.
      2. The composition of claim 1, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
      3.  The composition of claim 1, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
10    4. The composition of claim 1, wherein said composition has a local pH of about 4 to
          about 9.
      5. The composition of claim 1, further comprising a therapeutically effective amount of
          an antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
      6. The composition of claim 5, wherein said composition comprises a first and a second
15        region, said first region comprising said agonist and said second region comprising
          said antagonist.
      7. The composition of claim 6, wherein said first region has a local pH of about 4 to
          about 9.
      8.  The composition of claim 7, wherein said local pH is about 5.5.
20    9. The composition of claim 6, wherein said second region has a local pH of about 2 to
          about 4.
      10. The composition of claim 9, wherein said local pH is about 2.
      11. The composition of claim 1, wherein said polymeric carrier matrix comprises at least
          one polymer in an amount of at least 25% by weight of said composition.
25    12. The composition of claim 1, wherein said buffer is present in an amount of from about
          2:1 to about 1:5 buffer to agonist.
      13. The composition of claim 1, wherein said composition comprises at least one self
          supporting film-forming polymer.
      14. The film dosage composition of claim 1, wherein said agonist is present in an amount
30        of from about 2 mg to about 16 mg per dosage.
      15. The film dosage composition of claim 1, wherein said buffer comprises sodium citrate,
          citric acid, and combinations thereof.
                                                   39

   16. The film dosage composition of claim 1, wherein said buffer comprises acetic acid,
       sodium acetate, and combinations thereof.
   17. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
           a. A polymeric carrier matrix;
 5         b. A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically
               acceptable salt thereof;
           c.  A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically
               acceptable salt thereof; and
           d. A buffering system;
10         wherein said buffering system comprises a buffer capacity sufficient to inhibit the
           absorption of said antagonist during the time which said composition is in the oral
           cavity of a user.
   18. The composition of claim 17, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
   19. The composition of claim 17, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
15 20. The composition of claim 17, wherein said composition comprises a first region and a
       second region, said first region comprising said agonist and said second region
       comprising said antagonist.
   21. The composition of claim 17, wherein said agonist has a local pH of about 4 to about 9.
   22. The composition of claim 17, wherein said antagonist has a local pH of about 2 to
20     about 4.
   23. A method of treatment, comprising the steps of:
           a. Providing a film dosage composition comprising:
                     i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                     ii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
25                      pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                     iii.       A buffer in an amount sufficient to maximize the absorption of
                        said agonist; and
           b. Administering said film dosage composition to a patient.
   24. The method of claim 23, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
30 25. The method of claim 23, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
   26. The method of claim 23, wherein said agonist has a local pH of about 4 to about 9.
   27. The method of claim 23, wherein said composition further comprises a therapeutically
       effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 40

   28. The method of claim 27, wherein said antagonist has a local pH of about 2 to about 4.
   29. The method of claim 23, wherein said film dosage composition is administered to the
       user through a mucosal membrane of said patient.
   30. The method of claim 29, wherein said film dosage composition remains in the mucosal
 5     membrane of said patient for a period of at least 1 minute.
   31. A method of treatment, comprising the steps of:
           a. Providing a film dosage composition comprising:
                    i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
10                     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                    iii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                    iv.         A first buffer in an amount sufficient to obtain a local pH of said
                       agonist of about 4 to about 9;
15                  v.          A second buffer in an amount sufficient to obtain a local pH of
                       said antagonist of about 2 to about 4; and
           b. Administering said film dosage composition to a user.
   32. The method of claim 31, wherein said composition comprises a first and a second
       region, wherein said first region comprises said agonist and said second region
20     comprises said antagonist.
   33. The method of claim 31, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
   34. The method of claim 31, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
   35. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
           a. A first region comprising:
25                  i. A first polymeric matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                    iii.        A first buffering system in an amount sufficient to optimize the
                       absorption of said agonist;
30         b. A second region comprising:
                    i. A second polymeric matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and
                                                  41

                     iii.       A second buffering system in an amount sufficient to inhibit the
                       absorption of said antagonist.
   36. The composition of claim 35, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
   37. The composition of claim 35, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
 5 38. The composition of claim 35, wherein said first buffering system is present in an
       amount sufficient to provide a local pH of said first region of from about 4 to about 9.
   39. The composition of claim 35, wherein said first buffering system is present in an
       amount sufficient to provide a local pH of said first region of about 5.5.
   40. The composition of claim 35, wherein said second buffering system is present in an
10     amount sufficient to provide a local pH of said second region of from about 2 to about
       4.
   41. The composition of claim 35, wherein said second region is coated onto at least one
       surface of said first region.
   42. The composition of claim 35, wherein said second region is laminated to at least one
15     surface of said first region.
   43. An orally dissolving film formulation comprising a first region comprising a
       therapeutically effective amount of an agonist and second region comprising a
       therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist, wherein said formulation provides an
       in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax of about 0.624-5.638 ng/ml for said agonist and
20     an in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax of about 46.04-323.75 pg/ml for said
       antagonist.
   44. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said agonist is a partial agonist.
   45. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said agonist is an opioid agonist.
   46. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said formulation provides a mean AUC of about
25     5.431-56.238 hr*ng/ml for said agonist.
   47. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said formulation provides a mean AUC of about
       102.88-812.00 hr*pg/ml for said antagonist.
   48. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said formulation comprises about 2 to about 16
       mg of said agonist.
30 49. The formulation of claim 43, wherein said formulation comprises about 0.5 to about 4
       mg of said antagonist.
   50. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
           a. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                                                42

          b. A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically
               acceptable salt thereof;
          c.   A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically
               acceptable salt thereof; and
 5        d. A buffering system sufficient to obtain a local pH of said antagonist of about 2
               to about 4.
   51. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
          a. A polymeric carrier matrix;
          b. A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a pharmaceutically
10             acceptable salt thereof;
          c.   A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a pharmaceutically
               acceptable salt thereof; and
          d. A buffering system sufficient to inhibit absorption of said antagonist and
               optimize absorption of said agonist when said film dosage composition is
15             placed in the mouth of a user.
   52. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
          a. A first region comprising:
                     i. A first polymeric matrix;
                     ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
20                      pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                     iii.        A first buffering system in an amount sufficient to optimize
                        absorption of said agonist when said film dosage composition is placed
                        in the mouth of a user; and
          b. A second region comprising:
25                   i. A second polymeric matrix;
                     ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and
                     iii.        A second buffering system in an amount sufficient to inhibit
                        absorption of said antagonist when said film dosage composition is
                        placed in the mouth of a user.
30 53. The composition of claim 52, wherein said first and second buffering systems are the
       same.
   54. A process of forming a film dosage composition comprising the steps of:
                                                  43

          a. Casting a film-forming composition, said film-forming composition
               comprising:
                    i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
 5                     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                    iii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                    iv.         A buffer in an amount sufficient to optimize absorption of said
                       agonist and sufficient to inhibit absorption of said antagonist when said
10                     film dosage composition is placed in the mouth of a user; and
          b. Drying said film-forming composition to form a self-supporting film dosage
               composition.
   55. A method of treatment, comprising the steps of:
          a. Providing a film dosage composition comprising:
15                  i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                    iii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
20                  iv.         A buffering system in an amount sufficient to provide an in vivo
                       plasma profile having a Cmax of about 0.624-5.638 ng/ml for said
                       agonist and an in vivo plasma profile having a Cmax of about 41.04
                       323.75 pg/ml for said antagonist; and
          b. Administering said film dosage composition to a user.
25 56. A self-supporting film dosage composition comprising:
          a. A first region comprising:
                    i. A first polymeric matrix;
                    ii.         A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
                       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
30                  iii.        A first buffering system in an amount sufficient to optimize the
                       absorption of said agonist;
          b. A second region comprising:
                    i. A second polymeric matrix;
                                                 44

                     ii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist; and
                     iii.       A second buffering system in an amount sufficient to inhibit the
                        absorption of said antagonist
           wherein said second region dissolves at a faster rate when placed in the oral cavity
 5         of the user than said first region.
   57. The composition of claim 56, wherein said first polymeric matrix comprises a
       moderate-dissolving polymer.
   58. The composition of claim 56, wherein said second polymeric matrix comprises a fast
       dissolving polymer.
10 59. The composition of claim 56, wherein said first buffering system is sufficient to
       provide a local pH for said agonist of from about 4 to about 9.
   60. The composition of claim 56, wherein said second buffering system is sufficient to
       provide a local pH for said antagonist of from about 2 to about 4.
   61. A process of forming a film dosage composition comprising the steps of:
15         a. Casting a first film-forming composition, said first film-forming composition
               comprising:
                     i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                     ii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an agonist or a
                        pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
20                   iii.       A buffer in an amount sufficient to optimize absorption of said
                        agonist when said film dosage composition is placed in the mouth of a
                        user;
           b. Casting a second film-forming composition, said second film-forming
               composition comprising:
25                   i. A polymeric carrier matrix;
                     ii.        A therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist or a
                        pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                     iii.       A buffer in an amount sufficient to inhibit absorption of said
                        antagonist when said film dosage composition is placed in the mouth of
30                      a user; and
           c.  Laminating said first film-forming composition and said second film-forming
               composition together to form a self-supporting film dosage composition.
                                                 45

   62. The process of claim 61, wherein said first film-forming composition is dried prior to
       said step of laminating said first film-forming composition and said second film
       forming composition together.
   63. The process of claim 61, wherein said second film-forming composition is dried prior
 5     to said step of laminating said first film-forming composition and said second film
       forming composition together.
   64. The process of claim 61, wherein said first film-forming composition is at least
       partially dried prior to said step of laminating said first film-forming composition and
       said second film-forming composition together.
10 65. The process of claim 61, wherein said second film-forming composition is at least
       partially dried prior to said step of laminating said first film-forming composition and
       said second film-forming composition together.
                                                 46

