Abstract
A radar ranging system for imaging the topography of an area of interest, said system
comprising: at least one linear array of transmitter elements that transmit transmitter beams
comprising a sequence of ranging signals phased to form a beam pattern covering part of the
area of interest, the sequence phased to scan the beam pattern over an entire area of interest;
at least one linear array of receiver elements arranged orthogonally to the transmitter linear
arrays wherein each receiver element receives a time sequence of the ranging signals
reflected from variations on the ground as illuminated by the sequence of the ranging signals,
the receiver elements each producing a receiver signal; and at least one processor adapted to
process each receiver signal, wherein the at least one processor forms a multiplicity of
receiver beams complementary to the transmitter beams such that the combination of the
transmitter beams and the receiver beams form pencil beams which cover the entire area of
interest in time sequence, wherein the at least one processor measures a time delay of a first
reflection received in each of the formed pencil beams and converts the time delay into a
range measure at each beam angle to form a topographic profile of the area of interest in
range and beam angle coordinates.

E
     .1ax
 I.i
       I/S

                       APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ASSISTING
                              VERTICAL TAKEOFF VEHICLES
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001] 1.0 Field of the Invention
[0002] The present application relates to apparatus and methods for assisting operators of
vertical takeoff vehicles in landing operations within environments of low visual acuity. In
particular although not exclusively the present application relates to a radar altimeter for
assisting in landing operations of vertical takeoff vehicles.
[0003] 2.0 Related Art
[0004] Many incidents and accidents involving the use of vertical takeoff vehicles occur
frequently during takeoff and landing operations. Given the complex mechanics of the vehicles
involved, a wide array of variables can influence the success of these operations. Numerous
accidents causing from minor damage or, at worst, destruction of the vehicle have resulted from
environmental factors such as terrain type, wing and rotor clearance, etc.
[0005] One cause of accidents in landing operations is setting the vehicle down on steep or
uneven terrain. From the air it can be difficult to sight imperfections in the landing area. Setting
the craft down on steep or uneven surfaces can cause the craft to pitch and tip over. Another
major factor in terms of the terrain type, which can affect landing and takeoff operations, is the
composition     of the landing/takeoff surface.      For example in arid landing and takeoff
environments sand, dust and other debris can be kicked up into the air by the down draft created
by the vehicle. This situation is known as a "brownout". In essence the debris that is kicked up
                                                  1

into the air creates a cloud which can completely obscure the operators view to the landing zone
and surrounding landmarks.
[0006] In the case of vehicles such as a helicopter, the increased turbulence created by the rotors
(rotor wash) can create eddy currents within the particulate cloud. The swirling mass of particles
can lead the pilot to experience the vection illusion, a form of spatial disorientation where the
helicopter appears to be turning when it is actually in a level hover. A pilot not using the flight
instruments for reference may instinctively try to level the aircraft, resulting in an accident.
[0007] The brownout problem has been keenly noted by the US military. Since 1991, there have
been over 230 cases of aircraft damage and/or injury due to unsuccessful take-offs or landings in
arid environments. Although the majority of the incidents occur during landing, there have been
a significant number of incidents occurring during takeoff. Of the more than 50 brownout
incidents occasioning damage reported during the period of 2001-2007, 80 percent were during
landings and 20 percent during takeoffs. On average the number of brownout incidents
occasioning damage costs the US military US$100 million per year.
[0008] In addition to the brownout problem, a large number of helicopter operations are carried
out under the cover of darkness. Typically these operations require helicopters to minimize their
presence by flying low and without lights. During such operations pilots become more dependent
upon their instruments and limited information regarding terrain from night vision systems (if
available).
[0009] One piece of equipment which can provide a pilot with valuable information in both
brownout conditions and night time operations is a radar altimeter. The basic radar altimeter
utilizes a radar ranging system which measures the time delay of the signal reflected from the
                                                 2

nearest object within a single wide beam illuminating the ground. This wide -beam is intended to
monitor aircraft height even when in a bank or flying near steep slopes.
[0010] One example of a radar altimeter is shown in US Patent No. 5,047,779 to Hager which is
capable of tracking at least two targets. The altimeter of Hager information relating to the first
target is captured via a first set of radar antennas and stored before the altimeter switches to a
track and store information of the second target via a second set of radar antennas. US Patent No.
6,750,807 also to Hager et al., describes a similar scheme, but with a forward-looking scanning
beam for obstacle warning. Both arrangements proposed in Hager patents simply provide range
information to both targets and as such are generally useful in assisting a pilot with obstacle
avoidance in flight. Neither of the altimeter Hager patents is capable of providing the pilot of any
useful information regarding the tomography of the desired landing surface.
[0011] One approach to assisting pilots with obstacle avoidance in degraded visual conditions is
discussed in US Patent No. 7,106,217 to Judge et al. The approach of Judge relies on merging
data from a number of sensors to allow a display and fly-by- wire capability in poor visibility.
While the system of Judge is capable of assisting a pilot with identifying the position of the
aircraft relative to the select landing zone, and any obstacles within range of the aircraft, it does
not provide the pilot any useful information regarding the topography of the desired landing
surface.
[0012] Thus it would be advantageous to provide a system and method that would not only assist
an operator of a vertical takeoff vehicle in identifying obstacles in flight and around a landing
zone, but also provide the operator with information on the topography of the landing surface. It
would also be advantageous to provide a system and method that is capable of producing
                                                  3

accurate information regarding the topography of the landing surface in conditions of minimal
visual acuity.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0001] Accordingly, in one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a radar ranging
system for imaging the topography of an area of interest; said system comprising at least one
linear arrays of, for instance, 32 transmitter elements that transmit transmitter beams comprising
a sequence of ranging signals phased to form a beam pattern covering part of the area of interest,
the sequence phased to scan the beam pattern over an entire area of interest, at least one linear
array of, for instance, 32 receiver elements arranged orthogonally to the transmitter linear arrays,
e.g., as shown in FIG. 2A, 2B or 2D, wherein each receiver element receives a time sequence of
the ranging signals reflected from variations on the ground as illuminated by the sequence of the
ranging signals, the receiver elements each producing a receiver signal; and at least one
processor adapted to process each receiver signal, wherein the at least one processor forms a
multiplicity of receiver beams complementary to the transmitter beams such that the combination
of the transmitter beams and the receiver beams form pencil beams which cover the entire area of
interest in time sequence, wherein the at least one processor measures a time delay of a first
reflection received in each of the formed pencil beams and converts the time delay into a range
measure at each beam angle to form a topographic profile of the area of interest in range and
beam angle coordinates. The at least one transmitter array may comprise two parallel transmitter
sub-arrays of, for instance, 16 elements each operating at about 35 GHz and the at least one
linear array of receiver elements may comprise two parallel receiver sub-arrays of 16 elements
each. In this configuration, the spacing between the two parallel receiver sub-arrays should be
equal to the length of each transmitter sub-array; likewise the spacing between the two parallel
                                                  4

transmitter sub-arrays should be equal to the length of each receiver sub-array. The two pairs can
be separated, such as shown, e.g., in FIG. 2E, or they can be in the form of a perimeter array,
such as shown, e.g., in FIG. 2C, for a more compact arrangement. These arrangements of
transmitter and receiver arrays, with a total of 32 transmitter elements and 32 receiver elements,
and half wavelength spacing between the elements, forms 1024 pencil beams.
[0002] A time delay on the first return in each beam may be captured and scaled to a range
measurement. The shortest range measured by all the beams may be displayed numerically as
radar altitude.
[0003] The processor may be configured to process the topographic profile to display an image
of the terrain topography in the area of interest and/or the processor may be configured to
process the topographic profile in the area of interest to determine if the area of interest is safe
for landing an aircraft. The processor may be configured to provide a warning signal if a hazard
is present and configured to show a hazard and/or a safe area on a display. The display of the
topographic profile may include a color display, a contour display, or a mesh plot display.
[0004] The display may be referenced to a vertical coordinate system and/or may be referenced
to a coordinate system of a platform employing the imaging system. Moreover, the display may
be presented as an artificial perspective of the ground as viewed looking forward from an aircraft
platform.
[0005] The topographic profile may be compared with a threshold value denoting the slope, a
level clearance, and a flatness according to pre-specified data to safely land an airborne vehicle
within the area of interest and display suitable and unsuitable areas to an operator of the airborne
vehicle. Moreover, the processor may be adapted to compare the topographic profile with pre
                                                  5

specified profiles needed for safe rotor and tail rotor clearance on approach to the area of interest
and display suitable and unsuitable areas for landing.
[0006] The signal processor may form a guard channel to mitigate the effect of sidelobe leakage.
This sets a detection threshold for all beams to ensure the signal detected in any beam has not
entered through the sidelobes of its directional pattern. For this, for any one beam, the signal
processor may weight the signals from all other beams according to the sidelobe pattern of the
one beam and set the detection threshold above this by a suitable margin.
[0007] In one aspect, the processor may perform the Clean Algorithm on the data streams from
all the beams to mitigate any effects caused by sidelobe leakage. This algorithm may
sequentially subtract small proportions of the currently strongest beam signal from the signals in
other beams, until the cross correlation, and hence the leakage, between signals from all the
beams is minimized.
[0008] The radar ranging system may be mounted to look down, to assist operators make a
vertical landing. The radar ranging system may be mounted to include a suitable forward look in
the area of interest, to assist operators making a forward approach to the landing zone.
                               BRIEF DETAILS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009] In order that this invention may be more readily understood and put into practical effect,
reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which illustrate preferred
embodiments of the invention, and wherein:
[0010] FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of a radar system according to principles of the invention;
[0011] FIG. 2A is a schematic diagram of an open array arrangement antenna which may be
used in a radar altimeter, according to principles of the invention;
                                                   6

[0012] FIG. 2B is a schematic diagram of a T-shaped open antenna array which may be used in a
radar altimeter, configured according to principles of the invention;
[0013] FIG. 2C is a schematic diagram of a perimeter antenna array which may be used in a
radar altimeter, configured according to principles of the invention;
[0014] FIG. 2D is a schematic diagram of a spaced-apart T-shaped open antenna array which
may be used in a radar altimeter, configured according to principles of the invention;
[0015] FIG. 2E is a schematic diagram of an antenna array showing sub-arrays arranged to form
a generally parallel Tx and Rx pairs, with one pair adjacent to and spaced apart from the other
pair, to form displaced pairs, configured according to principles of the invention;
[0016] FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram depicting landing area surveying operation performed by a
radar altimeter, according to principles of the invention; and
[0017] FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of an alternative arrangement of the at least one transmitter
array and at least one receiver array forming a compact two dimensional array, according to
principles of the invention.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0018] The disclosure and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained
more fully with reference to the non-limiting examples that are described and/or illustrated in the
accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the
features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, and features of one
embodiment may be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize,
even if not explicitly stated herein. Descriptions of well-known components and processing
techniques may be omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the disclosure.
                                                  7

The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which
the disclosure may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the
embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly, the examples and embodiments herein should not
be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure. Moreover, it is noted that like reference
numerals represent similar parts throughout the several views of the drawings.
[0019] A "processor", as used in this disclosure, means any machine, device, circuit, component,
or module, or any system of machines, devices, circuits, components, modules, or the like, which
are capable of manipulating data according to one or more instructions, such as, for example,
without limitation, a computer, a microprocessor, a central processing unit, a general purpose
computer, a super computer, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a palmtop computer, a
notebook computer, a desktop computer, a workstation computer, a server, or the like, or an
array of processors, microprocessors, central processing units, general purpose computers, super
computers, personal computers, laptop computers, palmtop computers, notebook computers,
desktop computers, workstation computers, servers, or the like.
[0020] The terms "a", "an", and "the", as used in this disclosure, means "one or more", unless
expressly specified otherwise.
[0021] Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous
communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition, devices that
are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries.
[0022] Although process steps, method steps, algorithms, or the like, may be described in a
sequential order, such processes, methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate
orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily
                                                 8

indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of the processes,
methods or algorithms described herein may be performed in any practical order. Further, some
steps may be performed simultaneously.
[0023] When a single device or article is described herein, it will be readily apparent that more
than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly, where
more than one device or article is described herein, it will be readily apparent that a single device
or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article. The functionality or the
features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not
explicitly described as having such functionality or features.
[0024] Throughout the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad
meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the term "comprising"
such as "comprise" and "comprises".
[0025] A "computer-readable medium", as used in this disclosure, means any medium that
participates in providing data (for example, instructions) which may be read by a computer. Such
a medium may take many forms, including non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission
media. Non-volatile media may include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other
persistent memory. Volatile media may include dynamic random access memory (DRAM).
Transmission media may include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the
wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or
convey acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated
during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications.              Common forms of
                                                  9

computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic
tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards,
paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a
FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other medium from which a
computer can read. A computer program product may be provided that stores software
configured to, when read and executed by a processor, perform one or more steps of the
processes described herein.
[0026] Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of
instructions to a computer. For example, sequences of instruction (i) may be delivered from a
RAM to a processor, (ii) may be carried over a wireless transmission medium, and/or (iii) may
be formatted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, including, for example,
WiFi, WiMAX, IEEE 802.1 1, DECT, OG, IG, 2G, 3G or 4G cellular standards, Bluetooth, or
the like.
[0027] In order to produce a finely detail ground profile image via radar a multiplicity of beams
is required. This conventionally requires a scanning dish antenna or phased array radar with
many antenna elements and associated scanning electronics, making such systems complex and
expensive.
[0028] An alternative approach to the formation of multiple beams is to utilize Multiple Input
Multiple Output (MIMO) technique in association with orthogonal or near orthogonal transmitter
and receiver antenna arrays. The MIMO technique makes use of the fact that the signal received
from the far field with a bi-static transmitter receiver pair is identical to the signal which would
be received by a single mono-static transmit/receive element placed at the mid point between the
bi-static pair. For convenience, where the targets are in the far field, the image computation can
                                                  10

be based on the geometry arising from a notional plurality of transient elements. The technique
can also be used for signals from the nearer field, but additional processing by, e.g., a computer
or processor, is required to account for an ellipsoidal co-phase surface with the bi-static elements
at the foci. In the far field this ellipsoid tends to a spherical surface centered on a synthetic
element at the mid-point.
[0029] The formation of multiple beams under MIMO processing is only possible where each
receiver element is able to separate the return signals in order to match them to the corresponding
signals transmitted from each transmitter element (i.e. a form of multi-static processing within
the array itself). By transmitting separable signals from each of M transmitter elements, then
capturing and processing the reflected signals from each of M transmitters in each of the N
receiver elements, it is possible to form a number of beams equal to the product of the transmitter
and receiver element numbers NxM. Typically this may be achieved by transmitting from each
element in turn (time division multiplexing), or by simultaneously transmitting separable code
sequences from each element (code division multiplexing), or by simultaneously transmitting
differing frequency sequences (for instance orthogonal frequency division multiplexing). The
code sequences required for signal separability can also serve the need for pulse compression.
[0030] The use of time division multiplexing, code division multiplexing, orthogonal frequency
division multiplexing, combinations of these, and other coding techniques for applications in
MIMO radar systems are discussed in the inventors earlier filed international applications
PCT/AU2007/000033, PCT/AU2008/000628 and PCT/AU2008/001386 now assigned to the
applicant all of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0031] FIG. 1 illustrates the concept of synthesizing multiple beams under the MIMO technique.
In this particular example the coding scheme is modulated onto a carrier 101 by encoders 102a,
                                                  11

102b,..., 102M via mixers 103a, 103b,..., 103M to produce a set of M discrete coded signal,
before being transmitted toward the area of interest 105 from transmitting elements 104a,
104b,..., 104M.
[0032] A set of reflected encoded signals is received by each receiver element 106a, 106b,...,
106N, i.e., each receiver element captures reflected signals corresponding to the transmitted
signals from each of the transmitter elements Txl, Tx2,..., TxM. The received encoded signals
are then decoded by applying a decode signal 107a, 107b,..., 107M to each of the received
signals captured ([Rxl 1, Rxl2,..., RxlM], [Rx2l, Rx22,..., Rx2M], [RxNl, RxN2,..., RxNM]) by
each of the receiver 106a, 106b,..., 106N via banks of mixers 108a, 108b,..., 108N. This produces
a set of [1, 2,..., M ] received channels for each receiving element 106a, 106b,...,106N, which is
then set to a beamforming unit 109 to produce MxN beams.
[0033] The proposed radar altimeter according to one embodiment of the present invention
utilizes a downward looking MIMO phased array to form multiple beams, covering a relatively
wide sector, +/- 60 degrees or thereabouts. The distance to the ground is then measured in each
beam allowing the ground profile to be formed. The beams may be tilted forward to cover from
+90 degrees forward (horizontal) to 30 degrees behind nadir. The provision of such a forward tilt
gives a greater degree of coverage in the direction of approach vector to the ground. This
additional cover enables the altimeter to more accurately detect other vehicles in the proximity to
the current approach vector of the vehicle to the desired landing zone. Such functionality is
exceedingly desirable in instances where multiple vehicles are to be landed within a limited
space, e.g., a deck of an aircraft carrier, etc.
[0034] A number of possible configurations of a suitable array 200 are illustrated in FIGs. 2A to
2E. FIG. 2A depicts an open array 200 arrangement which is formed from two sub-arrays 201a,
                                                  12

201b, one a transmitter array and one receiver array arranged substantially orthogonal to one
another such that they form an L shape. An alternative open array construction 200 is shown in
FIG. 2B in this case the sub- arrays 201a, 201b have been arranged to form a T shape. Again, the
sub-arrays 201a, 201b are aligned substantially orthogonal to one another. FIG. 2D is similar to
FIG. 2B in this case the sub-arrays 201a, 201b have been arranged to form a generally T shape.
Sub-array 201a is shown as 16 transmitters and sub-array 201b is shown as 16 receivers, with the
arrays spaced apart. FIG. 2E shows a broken-square format. In the case of FIG. 2E, the sub
arrays 201a, 201b have been arranged to form a generally parallel Tx and Rx pairs, with one pair
adjacent to and spaced apart from the other pair, to form displaced pairs.
[0035] FIG. 2C depicts one possible configuration of a closed array 200 which is referred to as
perimeter array. As shown, the array includes 32 transmitter elements and 32 receiver elements
arranged into four sub-arrays. Two transmitter sub-arrays 201a, 201a' disposed on opposing sides
of the array and orthogonal to the two receiver sub-arrays 201b, 201b'.
[0036] Each of the transmitter sub-arrays 201a, 201a' includes 16 antenna elements arranged in
banks 203 of four antennas 205. Each transmission bank 203 is coupled to a switching network
207. The selection of which transmission elements 205 are active during the transmission cycle
is determined by the switching network 207 which opens and closes the appropriate switches to
activate the appropriate antenna element 203 based on the chosen multiplexing scheme.
[0037] As with the transmitter sub-arrays 201a, 201a', the receiver sub-arrays 202b, 202b' are
arranged into banks 204 of four antenna elements 206. Each receiver bank 204 is coupled to a
switching network 208 which passes the signals received by the active receiver elements 206 to
the back-end processing section.
                                                13

[0038] Preferably, each of the antenna elements in the sub-arrays 201a, 201a' and 202b, 202b'
have the same polarization. The antenna elements should also be selected to provide sufficient
beam width (element directional pattern) to illuminate a sufficient area directly beneath and
beyond the extremities of the vehicle e.g. +/- 60 degrees in a long track and cross track. The
spacing between the elements would need to be slightly greater than a half wavelength sufficient
to synthesize 32 beams within the +/- 60 degree element beam. While the array shown in FIG.
2C is a square parameter array, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the array may
be in the form of any suitable shape where multiple combinations of transmitter/receiver pairs
allow the formation of a filled aperture. Such configurations might include a rectangle, a T or L
shape, a circle, octagon or the like. Alternatively, a parallel pair of transmitters displaced from an
orthogonal pair of parallel receiver arrays (i.e., formed as    =) can be used where it is desirable to
minimize transmitter to receiver leakage.
[0039] FIG. 3 depicts the use of a MIMO array in a ground profiling operation in a radar
altimeter according to one embodiment of the present invention. As shown, the aircraft 301 scans
the desired landing zone 302. The synthesized beams each form a narrow cone. Hence, the
illuminated patch 302 is wide at higher altitudes. However, as the aircraft 301 descends smaller
features of the ground profile can be resolved.
[0040] Each of the transmitter elements 203 in the array 200 radiate a sequence of M differing
signals, the ground reflections from which are captured by each of the N receiver element 206 of
the array. Each of the N receiver elements then separates out the M received ground reflections
from the M transmitters to produce MxN differing received channels.
[0041] The channels are formed into MxN beams by co-phasing the data channels to remove the
phase shifts associated with a particular angle of arrival and then summing. Then by suitably
                                                   14

filtering the data in each beam, a set of range profiles is formed, thereby allowing the time delay
of the return signal via the nearest point in each beam be measured and converted to a distance.
These distance measures are then converted into a profile showing the ground and any obstacles
303 on the ground, allowing the suitability of a selected landing zone to be assessed.
[0042] In one aspect, separate transmitter and receiver elements may be formed where the
transmitter array is electrically scanned and the receiver array forms a multiplicity of receiver
channels such that the combined transmitter and receiver patterns form a set of pencil beams.
These arrays may be mounted to, e.g., a helicopter, so that the scanning beams cover the sector
below and forward of the helicopter. This has an advantage over conventional scanned phased
array radar in that the set of scanning beams can complete a full scan of a sector much faster than
a single scanning beam of a conventional phased array. The transmitter antenna 201a may be a
linear array of elements, such as shown in, e.g., FIGs. 2A, 2B or 2D, forming a fan beam which
is electronically scanned in the plane of the array. In this arrangement, the receiver array 201b,
e.g., FIGs. 2A, 2B or 2D, is also a linear array mounted orthogonally to the transmitter array
201a. Data from the elements of this receiver array 201b may be processed with, for example,
the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) to form a set of receiver fan beams. These are orthogonal
to the scanning transmitter beam and intersect with it to form a set of scanning pencil beams.
This is because the two way radar pattern is the product of the one way transmitter pattern and
the one way receiver patterns.
[0043] In another arrangement, e.g., the configurations of FIGs. 2C and 2E which have
transmitter and receiver elements arranged in parallel pairs forming a perimeter array (e.g., FIG.
2C) or displaced pairs (e.g., FIG. 2E), the two transmitter sub-arrays 201a, 201a' may form two
fan beams with separate phase centers, the waveforms from the two transmitter fan beams is
                                                 15

separately coded such that the two receiver sub-arrays 201b, 201b' can decode and apply phase
correction for beam-forming. This is an adaption of a scanning fan beam technique but using
MIMO techniques, and has the advantage of a smaller aperture for the same number of beams
and the same beam-width.
[0044] In another form, as shown in FIG. 4, the transmitter array 201a may comprise four
transmitters located at the corners of a compact two dimensional array of, for example, 32
receiver elements. The four transmitters each illuminates the whole scene of interest, with their
well separate phase centers forming directional patterns which, when combined with the patterns
of the receiver array in the processor, will form four times the number of beams, each half the
width the receiver beam. These two-way radar beams can be formed in parallel by the processor
using a two dimensional Fast Fourier Transform. Hence the range profiles from the whole scene
can be collected from the returns from just four transmissions. The four transmitter waveforms
can be in time sequence, in which case this is a form of MIMO radar with Time Division
Multiplexing, alternatively the four transmissions can be orthogonal code sequences, giving a
form of MIMO with for instance PCM or OFDM coding. In yet another form, four simultaneous
in-phase transmissions will first illuminate the scene to form a fine grain interference pattern.
This sharpens the resolving power of receiver beams phased to be coincident with the grating
lobes of the transmitter interference pattern. Second, third and fourth transmissions then
illuminate the scene, with pairs in opposite phase, to scan the grating lobes in four increments
over the scene. For each transmission the receiver beams are formed to be on the peaks of the
grating lobes. In this way the 32 range profiles from the sequence of four transmissions can be
interleaved to give 128 higher resolution range profiles, and the first return in each located to
form a 32 by 32 sample of the terrain profile.
                                                16

[0045] To maintain a robust terrain profile, in the presence of the slow fades typically
encountered by radar altimeters in hovering vehicles, a signal detector with a short sampling
widow may be utilized. The signal detector measures the range to the nearest point in each beam
with leading edge trackers which search out from zero range to detect the first return. The first
return in each beam is then tracked with a suitable early-late gate or similar. If the signal fades
the tracker stays locked for a short interval and if the signal has not returned in this interval the
tracker repeatedly searches out from zero again until it can lock onto the return signal.
[0046] The resultant ground profile may be displayed to the pilot for assessment as a contour
plot or as a mesh plot. This would allow the pilot to independently judge which regions within a
surveyed area may be suitable landing sites. The altimeter may employ an algorithm to
automatically determine the suitability of a surveyed area for landing. The algorithm may
incorporate such considerations as whether there is adequate rotor/wing clearance, whether the
ground slope is sufficiently parallel to the landing gear and determining the height at which any
obstacles on the landing zone project above the landing surface, in order to decide which regions
within a surveyed area are suitable for landing. Areas identified as suitable and unsuitable could
then be displayed to the pilot via display unit to further assist the pilot in the selection of a
landing zone. An audible warning may also be provided if the ground in view has a profile
falling outside the specification for a safe landing. If a vertical reference is available the display
could be referenced to this, otherwise the terrain display would be referenced to the pitch and roll
of the vehicle. In this case the image of the ground profile would tilt according to the vehicle's
angle with respect to the ground.
[0047] It should be noted that not only are the transmitted signals required to be readily
separable to produce a useful image of the ground profile, they also need to have a sufficient
                                                  17

bandwidth for a range resolution suited to the required height measuring accuracy. Typically a
radar altimeter with a leading edge tracker can deliver the required accuracy (+/- 2 ft) with a
20 ns pulse, but waveforms which can be time-compressed to that length (pulse compression) are
also suitable.
[0048] The above discussion focuses on the use of the MIMO technique to produce a multi-beam
radar altimeter capable of producing a highly accurate ground profile image. As mentioned
above, one of the other major problems effecting landing and takeoff operations of vertical
takeoff vehicles is that of brownout. Most radar altimeters can function under such conditions
and their performance is not degraded due to the interference caused by the dust particles, etc.
The selection of the type of transmission signal plays a significant role in overcoming such
performance issues. Radar transmissions in the millimeter wavelength of the spectrum are
capable of readily penetrating through dust, smoke or other such particulate clouds. Thus, by
applying to each of the transmitter elements of the array, a short pulse of wavelength in the order
of a few millimeters (e.g., 16.3GHz or 35 GHz), the altimeter can readily image the terrain
beneath the vehicle during a brownout, or similar events.
[0049] The MIMO technique described above for the formation of multiple beams typically
requires the transmission of long orthogonal transmitter code sequences from each transmitter
element and the need for the ground returns to stay coherent during the sequence may limit the
use of radar at speeds above a few knots. Furthermore, the MIMO technique may require heavy
signal processing burden with consequential high power consumption and a limited update rate.
An alternative technique to the MIMO technique may use similar antenna structures as was used
for the MIMO radar but with differing transmitter waveforms and signal processing. This
technique takes advantage of the fact that:
                                                18

        *       Receiver arrays can form multiple beams at once by, for instance, applying the
                Discrete Fourier Transform to the data stream from the receiver elements. This
                enables very efficient beam-forming.
        *       The two-way radar directional patterns are formed as the product of the receiver
                directional patterns and the transmitter directional pattern
        *       Transmitter directional pattern can be scanned over the scene of interest from
                pulse to pulse, illuminating a wide footprint on the ground with each pulse, whilst
                the receiver arrays form multiple beams within the transmitter footprint.
        *       The wide transmitter footprint allows the entire area of interest to be covered with
                a few scans of the transmitter.
        *       Hence a suitable combination of transmitter and receiver two way patterns can
                scan a set of fine beam width directional patterns over the scene with a few
                transmissions.
        *       Typically the transmitter and receiver arrays will form fan beams orthogonal to
                each other where the intersection of transmitter and receiver fans form pencil
                beam.
[0050] In a simple first example to illustrate this technique, a linear transmitter array may be
mounted orthogonal to a linear receiver array configured such as shown in FIG. 2A. A suitably
timed sequence of wide band ranging signals is applied to the elements of the transmitter array
201a with phase shifts such as to form fan beam directional patterns stepped in sequence over the
area of interest. The timing of the transmissions must be long enough to allow all the reflections
from the region of interest to die away before the transmission is repeated. The phase shifts must
                                                  19

form a linear phase slope across the aperture for any one ranging signal (typically a pulse). A
sequence of different phase slopes then scans a fan beam across the scene.
[0051] The signals reflected from the scene are collected by the elements of the receiver array
201b and processed typically with a Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT). This synthesizes a set of
receiver fan beam directional patterns aligned orthogonally to the transmitter fan beams. The
intersection of the transmitter fan beam with the set of receiver fan beams forms a set of pencil
beams. These are stepped over the scene as the transmitter fan beam is so stepped. The data
streams received by these pencil beams are then processed to measure the time delay to the first
return received in each pencil beam and this time delay is converted to a distance measure. The
distance measured by each beam then defines a profile describing the topography seen by the
radar in the beam angular coordinates. This ground profile may be displayed in suitable
coordinates, and may be processed to determine if and where the topography is unsuitable for
landing, showing such regions on the display.
[0052] This simple first example is based on a known scanning scheme, but has been adapted for
a landing aid by measuring the ground topography, displaying an image of the topography, and
giving a warning of unsafe conditions, which has not been previously provided.
[0053] In a second example, a new type of scanning technique is used. This offers an advantage
over the first simple example, requiring an aperture which is half the size for a given
performance (number of beams and beam-width) and with the same number of antenna elements.
In this second example, two linear and parallel transmitter sub-arrays and two linear and parallel
receiver sub-arrays are formed around the perimeter of a square such as shown in FIG. 2C. The
two fan beams formed by the two transmitter sub-arrays (e.g., sub-arrays 201a, 201a') are
stepped over the area of interest in synchronism, with the signals from the two sides transmitted
                                                20

simultaneously in the same phase and then in anti-phase at each pointing angle of the fan beams.
The interference pattern so produced from the widely spaced transmitter arrays illuminates the
ground with a row of narrow pencil beams within the fan beam footprint. These pencil beams
will be spaced by twice their beam- width; hence the space between each beam needs to be filled.
So, when the phase between the two fan beams is reversed the two fan beams will illuminate the
ground again with a row of narrow pencil beams but interlaced between the co-phase pencil
beams. In this way the area of interest is fully illuminated with rows of pencil beams in sequence
as the fan beams are stepped over the area of interest.
[0054] At the receivers (e.g., receiver sub-arrays 201b, 201b') two sets of data may be received
at each of the transmitter pointing angles: the set from the co-phase illumination, and the set
from the anti-phase illumination. These are processed by first applying a DFT to the sum of these
sets and then applying a DFT to the difference of these. This again forms two interlaced
interference patterns, but orthogonal to the transmitter orthogonal patterns. A pencil beam as
formed by the intersection of a transmitter and receiver fan beam now forms four pencil beams,
doubling the resolving power in each dimension.
[0055] In order to achieve the maximum gain in each of these four beams the transmitter fan
beam should be incremented in half beam-width steps across the scene and the receiver DFT
should be interpolated to double the number of samples.
[0056] In one variation, the two transmitter sub arrays can be fired in sequence rather than
simultaneously.. The two interference patterns can then be formed in the receiver signal
processing to complete the transmitter beam synthesis. This is a form of MIMO radar with
simple time-division-multiplexing (TDM) providing orthogonal coding for the two transmitter
sub-arrays only. However, with this variation, only half of the transmitters are used for any one
                                                  21

burst, so halving the total energy available to illuminate the scene. In another variation, both
transmitter arrays fire simultaneous to provide the full available energy. For this the two
transmitter sub arrays each transmit a code sequence forming an orthogonal pair, using for
instance phase code modulated or orthogonal frequency code (PCM or OFDM). The signal
stream from the receiver array elements are then de-coded into the two channels representing the
reflections from the scene as illuminated by the two transmitter fan beams with their displaced
phase centers. The sum and differences output from these two fan-beams are then processed as
with the TDM approach.
[0057] In yet another embodiment, the transmitter and receiver arrays can be in a square or
rectangular format, for instance the arrangement in FIG. 4, where a square array of receiver
elements (201 a) feeds a two dimensional Fast Fourier Transform (2D-DFT). This simultaneously
synthesizes a set of receiver beams covering the scene from just one transmission. When the
scene is illuminated with simultaneous waveforms from the four transmitter elements a two
dimensional interference pattern is formed illuminating the scene with an array of dark and light
footprints. These bright footprints are narrower than the receiver beam footprints and the
combined transmitter and receiver pattern spans a finer resolution area of the scene than the
receiver beam alone. With appropriate element geometry the nulls in the receiver pattern will
coincide with the remaining peaks of the transmitter interference pattern. The gaps in the
transmitter interference pattern are filled stepping the transmitter interference across the scene
with suitable phase shifts applied to the transmitter elements. For each of these transmissions the
2D FFT outputs are interleaved to form the higher resolution image.
[0058] The overall requirement for this and other variations is that:
                                                 22

        *      the spatial convolution of the transmitter positions and the receiver positions
               forms a synthesized co-array of the form required to synthesize the desired
               directional patterns;
        *      and the receiver array simultaneously forms multiple receiver beams intersecting
               the scene illuminated by a single transmitter beam; and
        *      the transmitter beams complete the cover using MIMO or sequential scanning.
This combination offers faster sector cover than is possible with a single scanning beam or with
the fully coded MIMO approach requiring long code sequences.
[0059] It is to be understood that the above examples have been provided only by way of
exemplification of this invention, and that further modifications and improvements thereto, as
would be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art, are deemed to fall within the broad scope
and ambit of the present invention described herein.
                                                23

I CLAIM:
1.       A radar ranging system for imaging the topography of an area of interest, said system
comprising:
         at least one linear array of transmitter elements that transmit transmitter beams
comprising a sequence of ranging signals phased to form a beam pattern covering part of the area
of interest, the sequence phased to scan the beam pattern over an entire area of interest;
         at least one linear array of receiver elements arranged orthogonally to the transmitter
linear arrays wherein each receiver element receives a time sequence of the ranging signals
reflected from variations on the ground as illuminated by the sequence of the ranging signals, the
receiver elements each producing a receiver signal; and
         at least one processor adapted to process each receiver signal, wherein the at least one
processor forms a multiplicity of receiver beams complementary to the transmitter beams such
that the combination of the transmitter beams and the receiver beams form pencil beams which
cover the entire area of interest in time sequence, wherein the at least one processor measures a
time delay of a first reflection received in each of the formed pencil beams and converts the time
delay into a range measure at each beam angle to form a topographic profile of the area of
interest in range and beam angle coordinates.
2.       The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is configured to
process the topographic profile to display an image of the terrain topography in the area of
interest.
                                                  24

3.      The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to
process the topographic profile in the area of interest to determine if the area of interest is safe
for landing an aircraft.
4.      The radar ranging system of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is configured to
provide a warning signal if a hazard is present and configured to show one of: a hazard and a
safe area on a display.
5.      The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to
output a display of the topographic profile as one of: a color display, a contour display, or mesh
plot display.
6.      The radar ranging system of claim 5 where the display is referenced to a vertical
coordinate system.
7.      The radar ranging system of claim 5 where the display is referenced to a coordinate
system of a platform employing the imaging system.
8.      The radar ranging system of claim 5, wherein the display is presented as an artificial
perspective of the ground as viewed from an aircraft platform.
9.      The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the topographic profile is further processed
to determine a substantially level area within the area of interest.
10.     The radar ranging system of claim 9, wherein the substantially level area is identified on
a display of the image of the terrain topography.
11.     The radar ranging system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is configured to
provide a warning if no substantially level area can be identified.
                                                 25

12      The radar ranging system of claim 11 , wherein the warning comprises an audible
warning.
13.     The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the transmitter elements and receiver
elements comprise transmitter and receiver sub-arrays, respectively.
14.     The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein a time delay on a first return in each beam
is captured and scaled to a range measurement.
15.     The radar ranging system of claim 14, wherein the shortest range measured by all the
beams is displayed numerically as radar altitude.
16.     The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further adapted
to compare the topographic profile with a threshold value denoting the slope, a level clearance,
and a flatness according to pre-specified data to safely land an airborne vehicle within the area of
interest and display suitable and unsuitable areas to an operator of the airborne vehicle.
17.     The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is adapted to
compare the topographic profile with pre-specified profiles needed for safe rotor and tail rotor
clearance on approach to the area of interest and display suitable and unsuitable areas for
landing.
18.     The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one linear array of transmitter
arrays comprises two transmitter arrays of 16 elements each operating at about 35 GHz and the at
least one linear array of receiver elements comprises two receiver arrays of 16 elements each
forming 1024 pencil beams.
19.     The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor forms a guard
channel to mitigate the effect of sidelobe leakage.
                                                 26

20.    The radar ranging system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor performs a Clean
Algorithm on the data streams from all the beams to mitigate any effects caused by sidelobe
leakage.
21.    The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein the radar ranging system is mounted to
look down, to assist operators make a vertical landing.
22.    The radar ranging system of claim 1 , wherein the radar ranging system is mounted to
include a suitable forward look in the area of interest, to assist operators making a forward
approach to the landing zone.
                                                 27

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
8/8

