Abstract
Systems and methods for purification and concentration of autologous alpha-2 macroglobulin
(A2M) from whole blood and or recombinant A2M are provided. Also provided are methods
of treating wounds with A2M.         Methods for utilizing A2M in combination with other
treatments (e.g., platelets and other growth factors) are provided in addition to combinations
with exogenous drugs or carriers. Also provided is a method of producing recombinant A2M
wild type or variants thereof where the bait region was modified to enhance the inhibition
characteristics of A2M and/or to prolong the half-life of the protein for treating wounds.

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
     SYSTEMS, COMPOSITIONS, AND METHODS FOR TRANSPLANTATION AND
                                    TREATING CONDITIONS
                                       CROSS-REFERENCE
[001]   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/871,009, filed
on August 28, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/990,522, filed on May 8, 2014, and
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/990,524, filed on May 8, 2014, each of which applications
are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                           REFERENCE TO A SEQUENCE LISTING
[002]   The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII
format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy,
created on August 27, 2014, is named 37151_703_601_SL.txt and is 85,553 bytes in size. The
aforementioned file is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
[003]   The physiological cellular response to tissue injury in the skin progresses through a
sequence of structured phases and normally results in a nearly complete recovery the injured
area. Wounds can be either acute or chronic with respect to healing. In chronic wounds, the
duration of the wound healing processes is either much slower or static. Wound healing depends
on several factors, including the patient's age and physical condition, the location of the wound,
the cause of the injury, and accompanying diseases such as diabetes or renal insufficiency, which
all have a negative effect on wound healing processes.
[004]   Wound healing involve several populations of cells (thrombocytes or platelets,
neutrophile granulocytes, macrophages, fibroblasts, and keratinocytes), soluble factors
(cytokines and growth factors), and proteases (e.g., matrix metalloproteinases [MMPs], plasmin,
and elastase). Healing initially involves hemostasis initiated by the activation of the clotting
cascade. Fibrin clots forming the provisional wound matrix entrap erythrocytes and platelets and
block blood flow. Numerous growth factors (e.g., platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF),
platelet-derived angiogenic factor (PDAF), transforming growth factor and epidermal growth
factor (EGF)) are released from platelet granules and chemotactically attract neutrophils,
fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and keratinocytes into the wound. The initial release of growth
factors from platelets is important in initiating the phases of wound healing.
[005]   Inflammation is the initial response to tissue injury. Within 6 h after tissue injury,
inflammation begins. The main goal of the inflammatory phase is to provide rapid hemostasis
and begin the sequence of events that leads to regeneration of tissue. Neutrophil granulocytes
typically appear in wounds first and control bacterial contamination and cleanse the wound from
                                                    1

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
cell detritus. After 48 h, the concentration of neutrophil granulocytes is maximized. Monocytes
begin infiltrating the wound site 24 h after injury, attracted by chemotactic factors including
complement factor 5, fibrin degradation products, and TGF-3. In response to wound cytokines,
monocytes differentiate into wound macrophages to aid wound repair.
[006]   During the proliferative phase, the damaged, necrotic tissue that is being removed via
phagocytosis starts to be replaced with living tissue that is specific to the local tissue
environment. Proliferation is primarily characterized by granulation tissue. MMPs take part in
the structured development of granulation tissue by removing damaged matrix proteins, helping
cells migrate into the wound, and developing new blood vessels.
[007]   About 2 days after injury, macrophages from monocytes begin expressing growth factors.
Macrophages continue to release PDGF, macrophage angiogenesis factor, and TGF-P. PDGF,
macrophage angiogenesis factor, and angiotensin stimulate new blood vessel formation,
generating granulation tissue in the wound. EGF, keratinocyte growth factor, and PDGF
stimulate epidermal cells to migrate, divide, and differentiate (keratinize), covering the
granulation tissue with a cellular barrier to desiccation and infection.
[008]   During remodeling, newly generated tissue reshapes and reorganizes to more closely
resemble the original tissue. Remodeling begins about the 7t day of wound healing and can
continue for 6 months to a year. Early in the remodeling, the provisional wound matrix,
predominately fibrin and fibronectin, is replaced with proteoglycan molecules and collagen
molecules (type III, type I) that become cross-linked by enzymatic action, which greatly
increases the tensile strength of the scar matrix. In addition, some fibroblasts are stimulated to
transform into myofibroblasts that contract the wound matrix. The high density of new blood
vessels and myofibroblasts in the scar then decrease as vascular endothelial cells and fibroblasts
undergo apoptosis, and the hypertrophic epidermal layer becomes thinner. At the end of the
wound healing process, the wound is closed. However, the repaired tissue does not completely
regenerate the original tissue structure, and some level of functionality of the scar tissue is
usually lost.
[009]   Platelets play a prominent role as one of the first responders during the acute
inflammatory phase. In response to tissue damage, platelets are activated resulting in the
formation of a platelet plug and blood clot for hemostasis. The alpha granules of activated
platelets contain numerous proteins that influence wound healing. Thrombin production
ultimately occurs and converts fibrinogen to fibrin which binds to platelet surface receptors.
Proteins from platelet degranulation are partly responsible for cellular chemotaxis, proliferation,
                                                   2

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
and differentiation. This includes removal of tissue debris, angiogenesis, establishing the
extracellular matrix, and regeneration of the appropriate type of tissue.
[010]    Platelet rich plasma (PRP) contains clotting factors and higher concentration of platelets
than baseline. The portion of plasma that remains deficient in platelets is known as platelet poor
plasma (PPP). PPP has clinical roles as fibrin sealant for hemostasis.
[011]    A common characteristic of chronic wounds is elevated protease activities. Thus, local
(or systemic) treatment of chronic wounds with protease inhibitor(s) could promote healing.
However, high levels of protease activity in chronic wounds of widely differing aetiology have
been shown and may be related to a problem with the healing process itself rather than with the
aetiology of the wound.
[012]    MMPs play vital roles in initial wound debridement as well as in the phases of
angiogenesis, epithelialization, and scar remodeling. A balance between proteases and their
inhibitors is necessary for a correct wound healing, and elevated levels of proteases and reduced
levels of inhibitors have been found in chronic wounds. Increased levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9
have been demonstrated in various chronic wound liquids. Increased levels of MMP- 1 and
MMP-8 have been found in decubital ulcers, and MMP-13 in venous ulcer lesions. Reduced
levels of TIMPs have been found in chronic wound fluid. The MMP-9 to TIMP- 1 ratio may be a
predictor for chronic wound healing, as an inverse correlation with the healing tendency of
chronic pressure ulcers has been shown. (Ladewig et al).
[013]    Similar processes may occur in non-healing or poorly healing diabetic foot lesions. Loots
et al., Dahn et al., Mansbridge et al.). Higher concentrations of MMPs and reduced
concentrations of MMP inhibitors have been found in diabetic wounds compared with trauma
lesions of a control group. Unlike normal wound healing, an overexpression of these proteases
seems to support a delayed wound healing and lead to a failure of wounds to heal. Additionally,
an imbalance between MMPs and TIMPs that contributes to the pathogenesis of nonhealing
chronic lesions may exist. Chronic diabetic foot ulcers have been treated with the antibiotic
doxycycline, which is also a competitive inhibitor of certain metalloproteases. Dressings that
contain high concentrations of gelatin, which is a substrate for MMPs, have also been used.
Elastase and plasmin activities in wound fluids have been found at significantly reduced by a
local therapy with Promogran, which may improve healing by reducing the activities of MMPs
in the molecular environment of the wound. Cullen et al. A dressing consisting of metal ions and
citric acid has also been used and reduced reactive oxygen species and MMP-2 production in
vitro.
                                                   3

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[014]    Use of recombinant PDGF (Regranex) for diabetic foot syndrome showed improvements
in the probability of healing and reduction of healing time. Smell et al. It was also determined
that the wound bed needed to be properly debrided for the growth factor to have maximum
benefit. Thus, wound bed preparation is important, and emphasizes the removal of barriers to
healing and the integration of advanced technologies in wound care.
[015]    Alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M) is a highly conserved protease inhibitor present in plasma
at relatively high concentrations (0.1- 6 mg/ml). It is unique in its ability to inhibit all the major
classes of proteases (Bhattacharjee et al., J. Biol. Chem. 275, 26806-11 (2000)). A2M can be
produced by several cell types, such as hepatocytes, lung fibroblasts, macrophages, astrocytes
and tumor cells (Borth W, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 737:267-72 (1994)). A2M often exists as a
tetramer of four identical 180 kDa subunits that forms a hollow cylinder-like structure. It can
present multiple target peptide bonds to attacking proteases in its central "bait" domain. A2M
can be the major protease inhibitor acting on foreign proteases, such as snake venoms. However,
there are many other protease inhibitors in the circulation and it has been proposed that A2M can
have other functions including binding to and regulation of cytokine and growth factor activity,
promotion of tumoricidal capabilities of macrophages, and enhancement of antigen presentation.
A2M can also be a targeting carrier for cytokines or growth factors.
[016]    Despite advances in the understanding of the principles underlying the wound healing
process, there remains a significant unmet need for suitable therapeutic options for wound care
and tissue repair and improving and/or promoting wound healing, including wounds that do not
heal at expected rates, such as delayed-healing wounds, incompletely healing wounds, and
compromised wound healing such as is seen in chronic wounds, scarring and abnormal or
excessive scarring, including keloid and hypertrophic scarring, atropic scarring, widespread
scarring, and scar contractures, as well as adhesions including surgical adhesions. There is a need
in the art for improved methods and compositions for treating conditions such as those caused by
acute and chronic wounds, inflammation, fibrosis, scarring, and adhesions.
[017]    Therefore, it is an object of the invention to provide compositions, systems, methods, and
kits for the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of inflammation, degradation of extracellular
matrix, and wounds. It is another object of the invention to provide systems and methods to
produce compositions for the treatment of inflammation, degradation of extracellular matrix, and
chronic wounds. It is another object of the invention to provide biomarkers and methods for
identifying sites of chronic wounds.. It is another object of the invention to provide methods for
diagnosing or assisting in the diagnosis of the presence of pathologies that are causative of
chronic wounds. Yet another object of the invention is to provide biomarkers and methods to
                                                    4

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
determine an appropriate therapy for a subject experiencing chronic wounds. Another object of
the invention is to provide biomarkers and methods to monitor and assess the efficacy of a
treatment for chronic wounds. Another object of the invention is to provide compositions and
methods for treating chronic wounds and for selecting treatment sites and methods for treatment
of chronic wounds.
[018]    It is another object of the invention to provide variant polypeptides for treating chronic
wounds. It is another object of the invention to provide variant A2M polypeptides with a higher
protease inhibitory activity than a wild-type A2M polypeptide. It is another object of the
invention to provide methods of making variant polypeptides for the treatment of chronic
wounds.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[019]    One aspect provided is a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject,
comprising administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising alpha
2-macroglobulin (A2M) isolated from a biological sample from a subject, wherein the A2M is
present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M present in
the biological sample from the subject; and plasma, bone marrow aspirate (BMA), or another
body fluid from the biological sample.
[020]    One aspect provided is a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject,
comprising administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising a
variant A2M polypeptide or portion thereof.
[021]    One aspect provided is a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject,
comprising administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising an
agent that inhibits one or more proteins or cells associated with formation of the FAC.
[022]    In some embodiments, the administering comprises topically applying. In some
embodiments, the administering comprises systemically administering. In some embodiments,
matrix metalloproteinases are inhibited in the wound. In some embodiments, FAC formation is
inhibited or FAC dissociation is promoted. In some embodiments, the wound is a chronic wound.
In some embodiments, the wound is a slow healing wound. In some embodiments, the wound is
an incomplete healing wound. In some embodiments, the wound is an open wound. In some
embodiments, the wound is closed wound. In some embodiments, the wound is characterized at
least in part by one or more of a prolonged inflammatory phase, a slow forming extracellular
matrix, and a stalled or decreased rate of epithelialization. In some embodiments, the chronic
wound is characterized at least in part by one or more of a chronic self-perpetuating state of
wound inflammation, a deficient and defective wound extracellular matrix (ECM), poorly
                                                    5

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
responding wound cells, limited ECM production, and failure of re-epithelialization due in part
to lack of the necessary ECM orchestration and lack of scaffold for migration. In some
embodiments, the chronic wound is characterized at least in part by one or more of prolonged
inflammation and proteolytic activity, leading to ulcerative lesions prolonged fibrosis in the
wound leading to scarring, progressive deposition of matrix in the affected area, longer repair
times, less wound contraction, slower re-epithelialization, and increased thickness of granulation
tissue. In some embodiments, the chronic wound is a chronic skin wound. In some embodiments,
the chronic wound has not healed within one month. In some embodiments, chronic wound is
selected from the group consisting of sores and ulcers. In some embodiments, the ulcers are
selected from the group consisting of venous ulcers, diabetic pressure ulcers, stasis ulcers,
venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers, bum ulcers, traumatic
ulcers, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the sores are selected from the group
consisting of pressure sores. In some embodiments, the subject has undergone a cosmetic
procedure. In some embodiments, the cosmetic procedure comprises a cosmetic surgery, plastic
surgery, breast augmentation, hair replacement, laser skin resurfacing, tummy tuck, ear surgery,
microderm-abrasion treatment, nose surgery, spider vein treatment, eyelid surgery, thigh lift,
chemical peel, arm lift, treatment with a dermal filler, chin surgery, liposuction, brow lift,
facelift, treatment with Botulinum Toxin, skin rejuvenation procedure, implantation, tattooing, or
any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the subject is an animal. In some embodiments,
the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments, the subject is a human pig, mouse, rat, rabbit,
cat, dog, monkey, frog, horse or goat. In some embodiments, the subject is a human. In some
embodiments, the composition is autologous. In some embodiments, the composition is not
immunogenic to the subject. In some embodiments, the composition is a liquid. In some
embodiments, the composition comprises platelets. In some embodiments, the composition is on
a wound dressing. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a blood, BMA, or a body fluid.
In some embodiments, the composition comprises one or more additional non-blood derived
components. In some embodiments, the one or more additional non-blood derived components
comprise an anti-coagulant, wherein the anti-coagulant comprises EDTA, tri-sodium citrate,
water for injection (WFI), or saline. In some embodiments, the composition comprises one or
more additional blood-derived components. In some embodiments, the one or more additional
blood-derived components comprise platelets. In some embodiments, the composition is
substantially free of cells and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 Pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm or
 1pm or more. In some embodiments, the composition is substantially free of red blood cells. In
some embodiments, the composition is substantially free of white blood cells. In some
                                                    6

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
embodiments, the composition is substantially free of platelets. In some embodiments, the
composition comprises a first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules. In some
embodiments, the composition comprises a second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules.
In some embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as
having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and are present at a concentration of at least
 1.1 times higher than found in the biological sample from the mammal. In some embodiments,
the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular
weight less than about 500 kDa, and are present at a concentration of less than about 90%, 70%,
50%, 30%, or 10% of a concentration of those proteins in the biological sample from the
mammal. In some embodiments, the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and are present at a
concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the biological sample from the mammal.
In some embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules comprise
cytokines; chemokines; immunomodulatory mediators, peptides, proteins, DNA, RNA,
carbohydrates, small molecules; proteases; degradative proteins; or any combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the cytokines comprise interleukins, tumor necrosis factors (TNFs),
monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs), macrophage inflammatory proteins (MIPs), tumor
growth factors (TGFs), matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), or any combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having
a molecular weight of less than about 100 kDa. In some embodiments, the first plurality of non
A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular weight of less than about
50 kDa. In some embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
characterized as having a molecular weight of less than about 10 kDa. In some embodiments, the
second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular
weight more than about 50 kDa. In some embodiments, the second plurality of non-A2M
proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 100
kDa. In some embodiments, the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 500 kDa. In some embodiments,
the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular
weight more than about 50 kDa. In some embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins
and molecules are characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 100 kDa. In
some embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as
having a molecular weight of more than about 500 kDa. In some embodiments, the A2M is
present at a concentration of at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the
                                                    7

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the mammal. In some embodiments,
protease activity is inhibited at a site of administration. In some embodiments, the subject has
been previously diagnosed as having a wound. In some embodiments, the rate of wound healing
is increased in the subject. In some embodiments, the treating results in a reduction in severity,
size, infection, or bleeding, or an increase in a rate of progression, of the wound. In some
embodiments, the method further comprises administering one or more additional carriers or
drugs. In some embodiments, the one or more additional carriers or drugs steroidal or non
steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, ibuprofen, aspirin, paracetamol, glucocorticoids,
acetaminophen, hydrocortisone, betamethosone, local anesthetics, antimicrobial agents, growth
factors, protease inhibitors. an antiseptic, an antibiotic, cephalosporins, penicillins, tetracyclines,
aminoglycosides, antifungals, sulphadiazine, chloramphenicol, erythromycin, vancomycin,
trimethoprim, silver, chlorhexidine, povidone iodine, triclosan, sucralfate, quarternary
ammonium salts, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the composition further
comprises one or more pharmaceutical acceptable excipients.
[023]    In some embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide comprising a bait region, the bait
region of the variant A2M polypeptide comprising a plurality of protease recognition sites
arranged in series. In some embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide protein is a recombinant
protein. In some embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide protein is produced in a host
comprising bacteria, yeast, fungi, insect, or mammalian cells, or a cell free system. In some
embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide protein is characterized by an enhanced nonspecific
inhibition of serine proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine proteases, aspartate proteases,
metalloproteases, glutamic acid proteases, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments,
the variant A2M polypeptide protein further comprises PEG with abnormal glycosylation sites.
In some embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide protein has a longer half-life than the half
life of a wild type A2M protein when disposed within a chronic wound of a subject. In some
embodiments, the plurality of protease recognition sites comprise one or more protease substrate
bait regions from one or more proteins other than A2M, one or more additional protease bait
regions from A2M, one or more non-natural protein sequences, or any combination thereof,
wherein the modified A2M protein is characterized by at least a 10% increase in protease
inhibitory effectiveness compared to the protease inhibitory effectiveness of a wild type A2M
protein. In some embodiments, the non-natural protein sequences comprise one or more protease
recognition sites that can function as bait for proteases. In some embodiments, the one or more
protease substrate bait regions comprise consensus sequences for serine proteases, threonine
proteases, cysteine proteases, aspartate proteases, metalloproteinases, glutamic acid proteases, or
                                                    8

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the protease substrate bait regions comprise one
or more consensus sequences for one or more proteases from one or more organisms. In some
embodiments, the one or more organisms comprise, animals, plants, bacteria, yeast, fish, reptiles,
amphibians, or fungi. In some embodiments, one or more of the one or more protease substrate
bait regions from the one or more proteins other than A2M are the same. In some embodiments,
one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait regions from A2M are the same. In some
embodiments, one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait regions from the one or
more non-natural protein sequences are the same. In some embodiments, one or more of the one
or more protease substrate bait regions from the one or more proteins other than A2M or from
the one or more non-natural protein sequences comprise a suicide inhibitor; wherein the suicide
inhibitor is operable to covalently attach a protease to A2M. In some embodiments, one or more
of the one or more protease substrate bait regions are from different species. In some
embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide comprises one or more non-natural bait regions,
wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise one or more protease recognition
sites not present in a wild-type A2M polypeptide. In some embodiments, the variant A2M
polypeptide is characterized by at least a 10% enhanced inhibition of one or more proteases
compared to a wild-type A2M inhibition of the one or more proteases. In some embodiments, the
enhanced inhibition comprises enhanced nonspecific inhibition. In some embodiments, the
enhanced inhibition comprises enhanced specific inhibition. In some embodiments, the protease
comprises a serine protease, threonine protease, cysteine protease, aspartate protease,
metalloprotease, glutamic acid protease, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
protease comprises MMP1 (Interstitial collagenase), MMP2 (Gelatinase-A), MMP3 (Stromelysin
 1), MMP7 (Matrilysin, PUMP 1), MMP8 (Neutrophil collagenase), MMP9 (Gelatinase-B),
MMP10 (Stromelysin 2), MMP 11), Stromelysin 3), MMP12 (Macrophage metalloelastase),
MMP13 (Collagenase 3), MMP14 (MT1-MMP), MMP15 (MT2-MMP), MMP16 (MT3-MMP),
MMP17 (MT4-MMP), MMP18 (Collagenase 4, xcol4, xenopus collagenase), MMP19 (RASI-1,
stromelysin-4), MMP20 (Enamelysin), MMP21 (X-MMP), MMP23A (CA-MMP), MMP23B
MMP24 (MT5-MMP), MMP25 (MT6-MMP), MMP26 (Matrilysin-2, endometase), MMP27
(MMP-22, C-MMP), MMP28 (Epilysin); A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase with
Thrombospondin Motifs protease, such as ADAMTS1, ADAMTS2, ADAMTS3, ADAMTS4,
ADAMTS5 (ADAMTS 11), ADAMTS6, ADAMTS7, ADAMTS8 (METH-2), ADAMTS9,
ADAMTS1O, ADAMTS12, ADAMTS13, ADAMTS14, ADAMTS15, ADAMTS16,
ADAMTS17, ADAMTS18, ADAMTS19, ADAMTS20; chymotrypsin; trypsin; elastase;
compliment factors; clotting factors; thrombin; plasmin; subtilisin; Neprilysin; Procollagen
                                                   9

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
peptidase; Thermolysin; Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A; Bone morphogenetic protein 1;
Lysostaphin; Insulin degrading enzyme; ZMPSTE2; acetylcholinesterase; or a combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the protease comprises ADAMTS4, ADAMTS 5, MMP13, or a
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the modified A2M polypeptide is characterized by
at least a 10% enhanced inhibition of FAC formation compared to a wild-type A2M inhibition of
FAC formation. In some embodiments, the one or more non-natural bait regions are derived
from one or more proteins other than A2M. In some embodiments, the one or more proteins
other than A2M are from a non-human organism. In some embodiments, the non-human
organism comprises an animal, plant, bacterium, yeast, fish, reptile, amphibian, or fungi. In some
embodiments, the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise SEQ ID NOs 5-66. In some
embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO 4, or a fragment thereof. In
some embodiments, the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise SEQ ID NOs 5-66, or
fragments thereof. In some embodiments, the wild-type A2M polypeptide comprises SEQ ID
NO 3, or a fragment thereof. In some embodiments, one or more of the one or more non-natural
bait regions comprise a suicide inhibitor; wherein the suicide inhibitor is operable to covalently
attach a protease to the variant A2M polypeptide. In some embodiments, the one or more
protease recognition sites comprise 2 or more copies of the one or more protease recognition
sequences. In some embodiments, the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise 2 or more
copies of the one or more non-natural bait regions. In some embodiments, the variant A2M
polypeptide comprises a wild-type A2M bait region sequence. In some embodiments, the variant
A2M polypeptide is a recombinant polypeptide. In some embodiments, the one or more protease
recognition sites comprise a consensus sequence for a protease. In some embodiments, the
variant A2M polypeptide comprises one or more modified glycosylation sites. In some
embodiments, the one or more modified glycosylation sites are functionalized with PEG. In
some embodiments, the variant A2M polypeptide has at least a 10% longer half -life than the
half-life of a wild type A2M polypeptide when disposed within the subject.
[024]    In some embodiments, the agent comprises an antibody, polypeptide, nucleotide, or small
molecule. In some embodiments, the agent binds to the FAC but not to the individual
components of the complex separately. In some embodiments, the agent comprises a
recombinant aggrecan G3 domain, wherein the domain contains the aggrecan G3 Lectin domain
and competitively binds to fibronectin; and wherein the newly formed complex lacks the binding
site to PAMP receptor and the binding site DAMP receptor. In some embodiments, the agent
comprises a recombinant fibronectin fragment, wherein the fragment comprises a G3 binding
domain and competitively binds to aggrecan, and wherein the newly formed fibronectin fragment
                                                10

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
aggrecan G3 complex lacks the binding site to PAMP receptor, and the DAMP receptor. In some
embodiments, the agent comprises an aggrecan antibody. In some embodiments, the agent
comprises a fibronectin antibody. In some embodiments, the agent comprises an antibody that
binds to the PAMP receptor recognition domain of aggrecan, the DAMP receptor recognition
domain of aggrecan, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells. In some
embodiments, the agent comprises an antibody that binds to the PAMP receptor recognition
domain of fibronectin, the DAMP receptor recognition domain of fibronectin, or both, thereby
inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells. In some embodiments, the agent comprises a
PAMP receptor or DAMP receptor that binds to the PAMP domain of aggrecan G3, the DAMP
domain of aggrecan G3, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells. In
some embodiments, the agent comprises a soluble form of the PAMP receptor or DAMP
receptor that binds to the PAMP domain of fibronectin, the DAMP domain of fibronectin, or
both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells. In some embodiments, the agent
inhibits production of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, proteases, or any combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the agent inhibits fibroblast cells, thereby inhibiting production
of fibronectin, recruitment of other fibroblast cells, or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the agent is identified using one or more high-throughput screening methods. In
some embodiments, the small molecule or polypeptide inhibits FAC formation, inhibits
activation of monocytes, inhibits increased production of fibronectin, inhibits recruitment of
fibroblast cells, binds to the DAMP domain of fibronectin, binds to the DAMP domain of
aggrecan G3, binds to the PAMP domain of fibronectin, or binds to the PAMP domain of
aggrecan G3. In some embodiments, the small molecule or polypeptide inhibits FAC formation
by competitively binding to fibronectin or aggrecan. In some embodiments, the small molecule
or polypeptide binds to the FAC complex resulting in dissociation or degradation of the FAC
complex. In some embodiments, inhibiting the formation of the FAC comprises inhibiting of one
or more steps in FAC formation. In some embodiments, the one or more steps in FAC formation
comprise production of fibronectin in the ECM, production of proteases and metalloproteases,
production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, degradation of aggrecan in cartilage, and
production of aggrecan G3 domain fragment.
[025]   In one aspect, provided herein is a system for enrichment of A2M from a fluid sample
comprising: a centrifuge; a flow filtration module comprising one or more filters; and an A2M
enriched retentate from the fluid sample.
[026]   In some embodiments, the system further comprises a pump adapted to be fluidly coupled
to the flow filtration module, and produce a flow of the fluid sample that passes through an inlet
                                                  11

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
and an outlet of the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, the pump is fluidly coupled to
the flow filtration module upstream of the inlet. In some embodiments, the pump is fluidly
coupled to the flow filtration module downstream of the outlet. In some embodiments, the
centrifuge comprises a supernatant of the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the flow filtration
module comprises a supernatant of the fluid sample. In some embodiments, a pellet of the
centrifuged fluid sample is not in the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, the
supernatant of the fluid sample is from the centrifuge. In some embodiments, red blood cells
have been substantially removed from the supernatant. In some embodiments, white blood cells
have been substantially removed from the supernatant. In some embodiments, a filter of the one
or more filters has a pore size of at least about 0.1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm. In some
embodiments, a filter of the one or more filters has a pore size of at most about 10, 50, 100, 200,
300, 400, or 500 kDa. In some embodiments, a filter of the one or more filters comprise a cross
flow filter. In some embodiments, the flow filtration module further comprises a permeate
collection reservoir. In some embodiments, the permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate
from the one or more filters. In some embodiments, a retentate of the one or more filters
comprises the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate
remains in the permeate collection reservoir. In some embodiments, a retentate of the one or
more filters comprises cells and particles from the fluid sample comprising a diameter of at least
about 0.1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm. In some embodiments, a retentate of the one or more filters
comprises a concentration of proteins with a molecular weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200,
300, 400, or 500 kDa, of at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the sample. In some
embodiments, a permeate from the one or more filters has a concentration of proteins having a
molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa of less than about 90%,
80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins in the sample. In some
embodiments, the one or more filters comprise two or more filters.
[027]    In one aspect, provided herein is a system for concentrating A2M from a fluid sample
comprising: a flow filtration module comprising an inlet, an outlet, and two or more filters
fluidly connected in series between the inlet and outlet; and an A2M enriched retentate from the
fluid sample.
[028]    In some embodiments, the system further comprises a pump adapted to be fluidly coupled
to the flow filtration module, and produce a flow of the fluid sample that passes through the filter
unit from the inlet to the outlet. In some embodiments, the pump is fluidly coupled to the flow
filtration module upstream of the inlet. In some embodiments, the pump is fluidly coupled to the
flow filtration module downstream of the outlet. In some embodiments, the system further
                                                   12

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
comprises a centrifuge. In some embodiments, the two or more filters are fluidly connected in
series between an inlet and an outlet of the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, a first
of the two or more filters has a pore size of at least about 0.1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm, and a
second of the two or more filters has a pore size of at most about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or
500 kDa. In some embodiments, the fluid sample passes through the two or more filters to
produce the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the two or more filters comprise a
first and a second filter, wherein the second filter is downstream of the first filter. In some
embodiments, the first and the second of the two or more filters comprise a first and a second
cross flow filter. In some embodiments, a retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M
enriched retentate. In some embodiments, a retentate of the first filter comprises cells and
particles from the fluid sample comprising a diameter of at least about 0.1 pLm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or
 1 tm. In some embodiments, a retentate of the second filter comprises proteins with a molecular
weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa, wherein the concentration of
those proteins is at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the fluid sample. In some
embodiments, the permeate from the second filter has a concentration of proteins having a
molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa of less than about 90%,
80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins in the sample. In some
embodiments, a first permeate from the first filter flows through the second filter. In some
embodiments, the flow filtration module further comprises a first and a second permeate
collection reservoir. In some embodiments, the first permeate collection reservoir stores a
permeate from the first filter and a retentate of the second filter. In some embodiments, the
second permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate from the second filter. In some
embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate remains in the first permeate collection reservoir. In
some embodiments, the flow filtration module is a dead end and/or tangential flow filtration
module. In some embodiments, the fluid sample comprises a biological sample. In some
embodiments, the biological sample is from an animal. In some embodiments, the biological
sample is from a mammal. In some embodiments, the biological sample is from a human. In
some embodiments, the system further comprises one or more waste modules in fluid connection
with the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, the one or more waste modules are
downstream of the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, the one or more waste modules
comprise particles, and other molecules with a diameter of at least about 0.1 Pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm,
or 1pm from the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the one or more waste modules comprise
proteins with a molecular weight of less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa from
the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the fluid sample is flowing through the one or more
                                                   13

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
filters in sequence using the centrifuge, a pump, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments,
the fluid sample is flowing through the two or more filters in sequence using the centrifuge, a
pump, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the system further comprises a collection
module in fluid connection with the flow filtration module. In some embodiments, the collection
module is downstream of the centrifuge. In some embodiments, the collection module comprises
the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the system further comprises a sample
loading module operable to introduce the fluid sample into the system. In some embodiments,
the sample loading module is directly or indirectly attached to the blood stream of a subject. In
some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate comprises A2M at a concentration of at least 1.1
times higher than found in the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate
comprises a first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules. In some embodiments, the A2M
enriched retentate comprises a second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules. In some
embodiments, the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having
a molecular weight more than about 10, 50, 100, 300, or 500 kDa, and are present at a
concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the fluid sample. In some embodiments,
the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as having a molecular
weight less than about 500 kDa, and are present at a concentration of less than about 90%, 70%,
50%, 30%, or 10% of a concentration of those proteins in the fluid sample. In some
embodiments, the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are characterized as
having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and are present at a concentration of at least
 1.1 times higher than found in the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the first plurality of non
A2M proteins and molecules comprise cytokines; chemokines; immunomodulatory mediators,
peptides, proteins, DNA, RNA, carbohydrates, small molecules; proteases; degradative proteins;
or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the cytokines comprise interleukins, tumor
necrosis factors (TNFs), monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs), macrophage inflammatory
proteins (MIPs), tumor growth factors (TGFs), matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), or any
combination thereof. In some embodiments, red blood cells have been substantially removed
from the fluid sample. In some embodiments, white blood cells have been substantially removed
from the fluid sample. In some embodiments, platelets have been substantially removed from the
fluid sample. In some embodiments, red blood cells have been substantially removed from the
A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, white blood cells have been substantially
removed from the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, platelets have been
substantially removed from the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the A2M
                                                  14

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
enriched retentate comprises platelets. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate is
obtained in less than about 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, or 3 hours.
[029]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method for enrichment of A2M from a biological
sample obtained from an animal comprising: flowing the biological sample through one or more
filters of a flow filtration module, thereby separating the sample into a permeate and a retentate;
and collecting the retentate; wherein the collected retentate is an A2M enriched retentate,
wherein the concentration of A2M in the A2M enriched retentate is at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5,
2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the concentration of A2M in the sample, and wherein the
concentration in the A2M enriched retentate of proteins having a molecular weight less than
about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is less than 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the
concentration of those proteins in the sample.
[030]    In some embodiments, the method further comprises removing cells and particles with a
diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1 pm from the sample before (a). In some
embodiments, the removing comprises centrifuging the biological sample, and obtaining a
supernatant of the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the removing comprises flowing the
biological sample through a filter. In some embodiments, the flowing comprises flowing the
biological sample through a first filter of the one or more filters, thereby separating the
biological sample into a first permeate and a first retentate, and flowing the first permeate
through a second filter of the one or more filters, thereby separating the biological sample into a
second permeate and a second retentate; wherein the second retentate is the A2M enriched
retentate.
[031]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method of enriching A2M from a biological sample
from an animal comprising: removing cells and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 Pm,
0.2pm, 0.6pm, or Ipm from a biological sample to produce a fluid sample, and flowing the fluid
sample through one or more filters of a flow filtration module, thereby producing a an A2M
enriched retentate.
[032]    In some embodiments, the removing comprises centrifuging the biological sample, and
obtaining a supernatant of the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the removing comprises
flowing the biological sample through a filter. In some embodiments, the method further
comprises discarding or retaining a pellet of the fluid sample. In some embodiments, the flowing
comprises flowing the fluid sample through a first filter of the one or more filters, thereby
separating the fluid sample into a first permeate and a first retentate, and flowing the first
permeate through a second filter of the one or more filters, thereby separating the fluid sample
into a second permeate and a second retentate; wherein the second retentate is the A2M enriched
                                                  15

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
retentate. In some embodiments, a first filter of the one or more filters has a pore size of at least
about 0. 1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm. In some embodiments, a first filter of the one or more
filters has a pore size of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa. In some
embodiments, a retentate from the one or more filters has a concentration of proteins having a
molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa of less than about 99%,
9 5 %, 90%,    80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins in the biological
sample. In some embodiments, a permeate from the one or more filters has a concentration of
proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa of
more than about 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins
in the biological sample. In some embodiments, the one or more filters comprise two or more
filters.
[033]     In one aspect, provided herein is a method for enriching A2M from a biological sample
obtained from an animal comprising: flowing the biological sample through two or more filters
of a flow filtration module, thereby separating the biological sample into two or more permeates
and two or more retentates; and collecting at least one of the two or more retentates; wherein the
collected retentate is an A2M enriched retentate.
[034]     In some embodiments, the flowing comprises flowing the biological sample through a
first filter of the two or more filters, thereby separating the sample into a first permeate and a
first retentate, and flowing the first permeate through a second filter of the two or more filters,
thereby separating the sample into a second permeate and a second retentate; wherein the second
retentate is the collected retentate. In some embodiments, a first filter of the two or more filters
has a pore size of at least about 0. 1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm. In some embodiments, a first
filter of the two or more filters has a pore size of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500
kDa. In some embodiments, a second filter of the two or more filters has a pore size of at least
about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa. In some embodiments, the first filter comprises a
first cross-flow filter. In some embodiments, the second filter comprises a second cross-flow
filter. In some embodiments, the method further comprises filtering a permeate of the first filter
with the second filter. In some embodiments, the method further comprises collecting a retentate
of the second filter. In some embodiments, the retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M
enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the method further comprises storing the A2M
enriched retentate in a second filter retentate reservoir in fluid connection with the second filter.
In some embodiments, the method further comprises storing a retentate of the first filter in a
reservoir in fluid connection with the first filter. In some embodiments, the two or more filters
are fluidly connected in series between an inlet and an outlet of the flow filtration module. In
                                                    16

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
some embodiments, the fluid sample passes through the two or more filters to produce the A2M
enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the two or more filters comprise a first and a second
filter, wherein the second filter is downstream of the first filter. In some embodiments, the first
and the second of the two or more filters comprise a first and a second cross flow filter. In some
embodiments, a retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M enriched retentate. In some
embodiments, a retentate of the first filter comprises cells and particles from the fluid sample
comprising a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm. In some embodiments, in
a retentate of the second filter the concentration of proteins with a molecular weight of at least
about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the
biological sample. In some embodiments, a permeate from the second filter has a concentration
of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa of
more than about 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins
in the s biological ample. In some embodiments, a first permeate from the first filter flows
through the second filter. In some embodiments, the flow filtration module further comprises a
first and a second permeate collection reservoir. In some embodiments, the first permeate
collection reservoir stores a permeate from the first filter and a retentate of the second filter. In
some embodiments, the second permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate from the second
filter. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate remains in the first permeate collection
reservoir. In some embodiments, the flow filtration module comprises and inlet and an outlet,
and wherein the one or more filters are fluidly connected in series between the inlet and the
outlet. In some embodiments, the flow filtration module comprises and inlet and an outlet, and
wherein the two or more filters are fluidly connected in series between the inlet and the outlet. In
some embodiments, the flowing comprises pumping with a pump, wherein the pump is fluidly
connected to the flow filtration module upstream of the inlet or downstream of the outlet. In
some embodiments, the pumping comprises manually actuating the pump. In some
embodiments, the biological sample comprises plasma. In some embodiments, the method
further comprises removing red blood cells from the biological sample. In some embodiments,
the method further comprises removing white blood cells from the biological sample. In some
embodiments, the method further comprises removing platelets from the biological sample. In
some embodiments, the red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, or any combination thereof,
are removed by flowing or passing the sample through the filters. In some embodiments, the
method further comprises adding one or more blood derived components to the biological
sample or the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the one or more blood derived
components comprise platelets. In some embodiments, a filter of the one or more filters is a
                                                  17

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
hollow fiber tangential flow filter. In some embodiments, a filter of the two or more filters is a
hollow fiber tangential flow filter. In some embodiments, a filter of the one or more filters
comprises a charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the
selectivity of the filter. In some embodiments, a filter of the two or more filters comprises a
charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the selectivity of
the filter. In some embodiments, the immobilized molecules comprise antibodies, proteins,
receptors, ligands, carbohydrates, nucleotides, RNA, DNA, or any combination thereof In some
embodiments, enhancing the selectivity comprises enhancing the ability to retain A2M,
enhancing the ability to not retain molecules that are not A2M, or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the flowing comprises applying tangential force filtration, one or more
centrifugation steps, gravitational forces, mechanical forces, or any combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the mechanical force comprises a pump, centrifugal force, or gas pressure, or any
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the method further comprises adding one or more
non-blood derived components, one or more blood derived components, or a combination
thereof, to the biological sample or the A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments, the one
or more additional non-blood derived components comprises an anti-coagulant, preservative,
excipient, diluent, or other additive. In some embodiments, the anti-coagulant comprises EDTA,
tri-sodium citrate, water for injection (WFI), saline, or ACD-A. In some embodiments, the
diluent is a WFI solution or a saline solution. In some embodiments, the one or more additional
blood derived components comprise platelets. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a
mammalian sample. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a human sample. In some
embodiments, the biological sample is collected with the aid of an additional absorbent,
adsorbent, or capillary materials or devices selected from the group of needle-syringe combo,
sponges, wicks, pledgets, sutures, hydrophilic catheters, hydrophobic catheters, hollow-lumen
catheters, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate is
obtained in less than about 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, or 3 hours. In some
embodiments, the concentration of A2M in the A2M enriched retentate is at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3,
 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the concentration of A2M in the sample. In some
embodiments, the concentration in the A2M enriched retentate of proteins having a molecular
weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is less than 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%,
or 10% of the concentration of those proteins in the sample. In some embodiments, the flow
filtration module is a dead end and/or tangential flow filtration module.
[035]     In one aspect, provided herein is a system for manual flow of a biological sample
comprising: a first retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a first end with a first
                                                     18

 WO 2015/031654                                                                    PCT/US2014/053223
inlet and second end with a second inlet; a first permeate chamber comprising a first outlet and
optionally a second outlet; a first semi-permeable membrane oriented between the first retentate
chamber and the first permeate chamber having an average pore size of at least about 10, 50,
 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa that permits liquid flow from the first retentate chamber to the
first permeate chamber; and a first injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection
with the first end, and a second injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with
the second end.
[036]    In some embodiments, the system further comprises a second retentate chamber
comprising a flow path comprising a third end with a third inlet and fourth end with a fourth
inlet; a second permeate chamber comprising a second outlet, wherein the second outlet is
optionally in fluid connection with the first retentate chamber; a second semi-permeable
membrane oriented between the second retentate chamber and the second permeate chamber
having an average pore size of at least about 0.1 ptm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm that permits liquid
flow from the second retentate chamber to the second permeate chamber; and a third injector
comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the third end, and a fourth injector
comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the fourth end.
[037]    In some embodiments, the first injector is connected to the first inlet via an adapter. In
some embodiments, the system further comprises a first vessel connected to the first inlet via the
adapter. In some embodiments, the first vessel comprises sterile air. In some embodiments, the
first vessel comprises a syringe. In some embodiments, the first vessel is disposed below the first
membrane. In some embodiments, the first vessel is disposed above the first membrane. In some
embodiments, the first vessel is oriented perpendicular to a surface of the first membrane. In
some embodiments, the second injector is connected to the second inlet via an adapter. In some
embodiments, the first outlet is connected to a first vessel. In some embodiments, the first vessel
comprises a syringe. In some embodiments, the first vessel comprises a permeate of the
biological sample. In some embodiments, the adapter is a valve. In some embodiments, the valve
is a stopcock. In some embodiments, the first inlet, second inlet, third inlet, fourth inlet, first
outlet, second outlet, or any combination thereof, comprises an adapter. In some embodiments,
the adapter is a Luer-lock adapter, a Hose-Barb adapter, or a sanitary tri-clover adaptor. In some
embodiments, the Luer-lock adapter is closed, capped, or sealed. In some embodiments, the first
inlet, second inlet, third inlet, fourth inlet, first outlet, second outlet, or any combination thereof,
is closed, capped, or sealed. In some embodiments, the third injector is connected to the third
inlet via an adapter. In some embodiments, the system further comprises a second vessel
connected to the third inlet via the adapter. In some embodiments, the second vessel comprises
                                                       19

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
sterile air. In some embodiments, the second vessel comprises a syringe. In some embodiments,
the second vessel is disposed below the second membrane. In some embodiments, the second
vessel is disposed above the second membrane. In some embodiments, the second vessel is
oriented perpendicular to a surface of the second membrane. In some embodiments, the fourth
injector is connected to the fourth inlet via an adapter. In some embodiments, the second outlet is
in fluid connection with the first retentate chamber. In some embodiments, the second outlet is in
fluid communication with a second vessel. In some embodiments, the connection is via a second
outlet flow path. In some embodiments, the second vessel comprises a container or bag. In some
embodiments, the second vessel comprises a permeate of the biological sample. In some
embodiments, the permeate of the biological sample does not comprise cells. In some
embodiments, the adapter is a valve. In some embodiments, the valve is a stopcock. In some
embodiments, the second outlet flow path is in fluid communication with the first retentate
chamber via a connecting flow path. In some embodiments, the second outlet flow path is
connected to the connecting flow path via a valve. In some embodiments, the valve allows fluid
to flow from the second outlet flow path to the second vessel in a first orientation, and wherein
the valve allows fluid to flow from the second vessel to the first retentate chamber in a second
orientation. In some embodiments, the second outlet is in fluid connection with a collection
vessel. In some embodiments, the collection vessel is adapted to fit the first or second inlet. In
some embodiments, the collection vessel is adapted to fit an adapter connected to the first or
second inlet. In some embodiments, the collection vessel is the first or second injector. In some
embodiments, the system further comprises an A2M enriched retentate contained in the first
injector or the second injector, the A2M enriched retentate comprising: A2M isolated from a
biological sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at a concentration of at least 1.1
times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the animal;
and plasma, bone marrow aspirate (BMA), or another body fluid from the biological sample. In
some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate comprises proteins with a molecular weight of
at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa present at a concentration of at least 1.1
times higher than found in the biological sample from the animal. In some embodiments, the
A2M enriched retentate comprises a concentration of molecules with a molecular weight less
than 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is less than 90%, 70%, 50%, 30%, or 10% of the
concentration of those proteins and/or fold concentration of A2M present in the biological
sample from the animal. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a blood sample, BMA,
or other body fluid. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate is substantially free of
cells and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2ptm, 0.6pm, or 1pm, and comprises
                                                  20

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
a reduced concentration of proteins and other molecules with a molecular weight of at least about
 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa compared to the biological sample. In some
embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate is for autologous delivery into or onto one or more
wounds of the animal. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentate is an autologous
composition. In some embodiments, the first inlet is disposed to introduce a biological sample
into the first retentate chamber and parallel to the surface of the first membrane. In some
embodiments, the second inlet is disposed to introduce a biological sample into the first retentate
chamber and parallel to the surface of the first membrane. In some embodiments, the third and/or
fourth inlet is disposed to introduce a biological sample into the second retentate chamber and
parallel to the surface of the second membrane. In some embodiments, the system further
comprises a means for providing the biological sample or permeate of the biological sample to
the first or second inlet of the first retentate chamber, and a means for controlling a filtration rate
of the biological sample through the first membrane and into the first permeate chamber. In some
embodiments, the system further comprises a means for providing a the biological sample to the
third or fourth inlet of the second retentate chamber, and a means for controlling a filtration rate
of the biological sample through the second membrane and into the second permeate chamber. In
some embodiments, the first retentate chamber is cylindrical, and wherein the first outlet is
disposed perpendicular to a surface of the first and/or second membrane. In some embodiments,
the second retentate chamber is cylindrical, and wherein the second outlet is disposed
perpendicular to a surface of the second and/or first membrane. In some embodiments, the
second retentate chamber is disposed above the first retentate chamber. In some embodiments,
the second retentate chamber is parallel to the first retentate chamber. In some embodiments, the
first inlet and/or the second inlet is disposed above the first membrane. In some embodiments,
the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is disposed above the second and/or first membrane. In
some embodiments, the first inlet and/or the second inlet is oriented perpendicular to a surface of
the first membrane. In some embodiments, the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is oriented
perpendicular to a surface of the second and/or first membrane. In some embodiments, the first
inlet and/or the second inlet is oriented parallel to a surface of the first membrane. In some
embodiments, the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is oriented parallel to a surface of the second
and/or first membrane. In some embodiments, the system is portable.
[038]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method for enrichment of A2M from a biological
sample obtained from an animal comprising: flowing a biological sample into a system
comprising: a first retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a first end with a first
inlet and second end with a second inlet; a first permeate chamber comprising a first outlet; a
                                                    21

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
first semi-permeable membrane oriented between the first retentate chamber and the first
permeate chamber that permits liquid flow from the first retentate chamber to the first permeate
chamber; and a first injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the first end,
and a second injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the second end;
through the first inlet, over the first membrane of the first retentate chamber, and through the
second inlet, thereby separating the sample into a permeate and a retentate; and collecting the
retentate in the first or second injector, wherein the retentate is enriched for A2M.
[039]     In some embodiments, the system of the method further comprises: a second retentate
chamber comprising a flow path comprising a third end with a third inlet and fourth end with a
fourth inlet; a second permeate chamber comprising a second outlet, wherein the second outlet is
optionally in fluid connection with the first retentate chamber; a second semi-permeable
membrane oriented between the second retentate chamber and the second permeate chamber that
permits liquid flow from the second retentate chamber to the second permeate chamber; and a
third injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the third end, and a fourth
injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the fourth end; and wherein the
method further comprises: flowing the sample through the third inlet, over the second membrane
of the second retentate chamber, and through the fourth inlet, thereby retaining cells and other
particles with an average diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm in the second
retentate chamber; and flowing the permeate from the second membrane into the first retentate
chamber.
[040]     In some embodiments, the concentration of A2M in the retentate is at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3,
 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the concentration of A2M in the sample. In some
embodiments, the retentate comprises a concentration of proteins with a molecular weight less
than about 10, 50, 100, 300, or 500 kDa of less than 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% the
concentration of those proteins in the biological sample. In some embodiments, the flowing
comprises flowing the permeate from the second membrane through a channel connecting the
second outlet with the first retentate chamber. In some embodiments, the flowing comprises
collecting the permeate from the second membrane in a collection vessel and flowing the
collected permeate from the second membrane through the first or second inlet into the first
retentate chamber. In some embodiments, the collection vessel is adapted to fit the first or second
inlet. In some embodiments, the collection vessel is adapted to fit an adapter connected to the
first or second inlet. In some embodiments, the collection vessel is the first or second injector. In
some embodiments, the flowing comprises actuating the first injector. In some embodiments, the
flowing further comprises actuating the second injector. In some embodiments, the first and
                                                     22

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
second injectors are actuated on or more times. In some embodiments, the first and second
injectors are actuated in sequence. In some embodiments, the biological sample comprises
plasma. In some embodiments, red blood cells and white blood cells have been removed from
the biological sample. In some embodiments, the biological sample or A2M enriched retentate
further comprises one or more blood derived components. In some embodiments, the one or
more blood derived components comprise platelets. In some embodiments, the second membrane
is characterized by having a pore size of at least 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm, or higher. In
some embodiments, the first membrane comprises a hollow fiber tangential flow filter. In some
embodiments, the first membrane has a molecular weight cut-off of at most 10, 50, 100, 200,
300, 400, or 500 kDa. In some embodiments, the first and/or second membranes comprise a
charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the selectivity of
the one or more filters. In some embodiments, the immobilized molecules comprise antibodies,
proteins, receptors, ligands, carbohydrates, nucleotides, RNA, or DNA. In some embodiments,
enhancing the selectivity of the one or more filters comprises enhancing the ability of the one or
more filters to retain A2M, enhancing the ability of the one or more filters to not retain
molecules that are not A2M, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the flowing
comprises actuating on or more of the injectors, applying tangential force filtration, one or more
centrifugation steps, gravitational forces, mechanical forces, or any combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the mechanical force comprises a manual force, a pump, centrifugal force, gas
pressure, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the method further comprises adding
one or more non-blood derived components, one or more blood derived components, or a
combination thereof, to the biological sample or A2M enriched retentate. In some embodiments,
the one or more additional non-blood derived components comprises an anti-coagulant,
preservative, excipient, diluent, or other additive. In some embodiments, the anti-coagulant
comprises EDTA, tri-sodium citrate, water for injection (WFI), saline, or ACD-A. In some
embodiments, the diluent is a WFI solution or a saline solution. In some embodiments, the one or
more additional blood derived components comprise platelets. In some embodiments, the
biological sample is from a human subject. In some embodiments, the human subject has a
disease or condition treatable with the retentate. In some embodiments, the disease or condition
is a wound. In some embodiments, the wound is a chronic wound. In some embodiments, the
biological sample is collected with the aid of an additional absorbent, adsorbent, or capillary
materials or systems selected from the group of needle-syringe combo, sponges, wicks, pledgets,
sutures, hydrophilic catheters, hydrophobic catheters, hollow-lumen catheters, or any
                                                  23

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the method further comprises centrifuging the
sample to remove cells and particles.
[041]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method of manufacture of a medicament comprising
bringing together an amount of a composition comprising A2M isolated from a biological
sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at a concentration of at least 1. 1 times
higher than the concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the animal, and
plasma, BMA, or another body fluid from the biological sample; with a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier, wherein the medicament is effective to promote wound healing.
[042]    In one aspect, provided herein is an article of manufacture comprising package material
containing a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising A2M isolated from a
biological sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at a concentration of at least 1.1
times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the animal,
and plasma, BMA, or another body fluid from the biological sample; together with instructions
for use in the treatment of a wound in or on a subject.
[043]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method of manufacture of a medicament comprising
bringing together an amount of a composition comprising a variant A2M polypeptide or portion
thereof effective to promote wound healing and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
[044]    In one aspect, provided herein is an article of manufacture comprising package material
containing therapeutically effective amounts of a composition comprising a variant A2M
polypeptide or portion thereof together with instructions for use in the treatment of a wound in or
on a subject
[045]    In one aspect, provided herein is a method of manufacture of a medicament comprising
bringing together an amount a composition comprising an agent that inhibits one or more
proteins or cells associated with formation of the FAC effective to promote wound healing and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
[046]    In one aspect, provided herein is an article of manufacture comprising package material
containing therapeutically effective amounts of a composition comprising an agent that inhibits
one or more proteins or cells associated with formation of the FAC together with instructions for
use in the treatment of a wound in or on a subject.
[047]    In some embodiments, the biological sample comprises a first biological sample from a
first subject and a second biological sample from a second subject. In some embodiments, the
first and second biological samples are blood samples or plasma samples. In some embodiments,
the first and second biological samples do not substantially comprise blood cells. In some
embodiments, the animal is a first animal and wherein the method further comprises combining
                                                   24

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
the A2M enriched retentate with another A2M retentate obtained from another biological sample
to form a pooled sample, wherein the another biological sample is from a second animal that is
different from the first animal. In some embodiments, the biological samples are blood samples
or plasma samples. In some embodiments, the A2M enriched retentates do not substantially
comprise blood cells. In some embodiments, the method further comprises treating a subject in
need thereof with the pooled sample. In some embodiments, the pooled sample is not
immunogenic to the subject. In some embodiments, the fluid sample is a biological sample,
wherein the biological sample comprises a first biological sample from a first subject and a
second biological sample from a second subject. In some embodiments, the biological sample
comprises a first biological sample from a first subject and a second biological sample from a
second subject. In some embodiments, the first and second biological samples are blood samples
or plasma samples. In some embodiments, the first and second biological samples do not
substantially comprise blood cells. In some embodiments, the biological sample comprises a first
biological sample from a first subject and a second biological sample from a second subject. In
some embodiments, the first and second biological samples are blood samples or plasma
samples. In some embodiments, the first and second biological samples do not substantially
comprise blood cells. In some embodiments, the animal is a first animal and wherein the article
further comprises an A2M enriched retentate obtained from another biological sample to form a
pooled sample, wherein the another biological sample is from a second animal that is different
from the first animal. In some embodiments, the biological samples are blood samples or plasma
samples. In some embodiments, the article does not substantially comprise blood cells.
                              INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[048]   All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification,
including related International Application No. PCT/US2013/027159, are herein incorporated by
reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent application was
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In the event of a conflict
between a term herein and a term incorporated by reference, the term herein controls.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[049]   The novel features are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A better
understanding of the features and advantages will be obtained by reference to the following
detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in which the principles of devices,
methods, and compositions are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
[050]   Figure 1 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system. comprising one membrane
[051]   Figure 2 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising one membrane.
                                                   25

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
[052]  Figure 3 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising one membrane.
[053]  Figure 4 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising one membrane.
[054]  Figure 5 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising one membrane.
[055]  Figure 6 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising one membrane.
[056]  Figure 7 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising two membranes.
[057]  Figure 8 depicts a schematic of an exemplary system comprising two membranes.
[058]  Figures 9A-9G depict the flow of a sample through an exemplary system comprising two
membranes.
[059]  Figure 10 depicts a graph comparing recovery of various components from a sample
using an automatic system, a manual system, and a system comprising a hemaconcentrator.
[060]  Figure 11 depicts a graph comparing recovery of various components from a sample
using an automatic system, a manual system, and a system comprising a hemaconcentrator.
[061]  Figure 12 depicts a schematic of view of a filtration module of a system.
[062]  Figure 13 depicts a bar graph of the % of the indicated cells compared to whole blood
(WB)) using the indicated methods.
[063]  Figure 14 depicts a bar graph of the concentration of A2M (mg/mL) in blood, plasma,
and concentrated compositions produced using the indicated methods.
[064]  Figures 15A-C depict bar graphs of the concentration of the indicated analytes in plasma
and concentrated compositions produced using the indicated methods.
[065]  Figure 16A depicts a diagram of an exemplary APIC-HL system.
[066]  Figure 16B depicts a diagram of an exemplary APIC-HH system.
[067]  Figure 17 depicts a flow chart of the steps for exemplary methods of preparing
therapeutic compositions described herein.
[068]  Figure 18 depicts a flow chart of the steps for exemplary methods of preparing
therapeutic compositions described herein.
[069]  Figure 19 depicts a flow chart of the steps for exemplary methods of preparing
therapeutic compositions described herein.
[070]  Figure 20A depicts a bar graph of the percent recovery of platelets from whole blood in
concentrated products produced using the indicated method.
[071]  Figure 20B depicts a bar graph of the fold change of platelets in concentrated products
produced using the indicated method compared to whole blood.
[072]  Figure 21A depicts a bar graph of the fold change of white blood cells in concentrated
products produced using the indicated method compared to whole.
                                                26

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
[073]    Figure 21B depicts a bar graph of the fold change of red blood cells in concentrated
products produced using the indicated method compared to whole blood.
[074]    Figure 22 depicts a bar graph of the fold change of A2M in concentrated products
produced using the indicated method compared to whole blood.
[075]    Figure 23 depicts a bar graph of the fold change of platelets in concentrated products
produced using the indicated method compared to whole blood
[076]    Figure 24 depicts a schematic of the steps and signaling pathways associated with
formation of a fibronectin-aggrecan complex (FAC) and the FAC-induced activation of Damage
Associated-Molecular Pattern (DAMP) receptor signaling in cells. The combination of the two
processes creates a cyclic process that continually degrades cartilage.
[077]    Figure 25 depicts a flow chart of the steps for construct or protein expression.
[078]    Figure 26 depicts the A2M structure and various domains of A2M.
[079]    Figure 27 depicts the process of tangential flow filtration using hollow fiber filters.
[080]    Figure 28 depicts a schematic of a system as described herein.
[081]    Figure 29 a picture of the concentration kit/tray of a system described herein showing one
filter, a concentration bag and the filtrate bag.
[082]    Figure 30 depicts a schematic of the components of a concentration bag of a system
described herein.
[083]    Figure 31 depicts the components of a system described herein showing a centrifuge and
a one filter system.
[084]    Figure 32 depicts two different types of custom centrifuge tubes that can be used in the
systems described herein.
[085]    Figure 33 depicts a schematic of a cell free concentration system as described herein with
concentration component utilizing two filters.
[086]    Figure 34 depicts a graph of collagenase digestion of the indicated samples from a wound
at the indicated serial dilutions. The samples depicted refer to the following: 14073 1NL - wound
fluid (WF). 14073 1AW - debridement tissue (DT), 14073 1DMB - DT, and MMP-13 - matrix
metalloprotease-13. Chronic wound fluid had elevated protease activity (EPA). Debridement
tissue contained relatively less collagenase activity.
[087]    Figure 35 depicts a graph of collagenase activity in the indicated samples with and
without treatment of A2M at the indicated volumes (top) and corresponding table (bottom).
Serial dilutions of Autologous Platelet Integrated Concentrate (APIC-PRP) (140224PD, 5.5
mg/ml of A2M) were challenged to inhibit WF digestion of FITC-collagen. 1x means equal
volumes of WF and APIC-PRP. A 1x concentration of APIC was able to inhibit 75% of the
                                                  27

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
collagenases in the first 3 minutes of the digestion. 3x APIC to wound fluid and collagenase
activity was reduced 10-fold. No digestion of collagen was seen in APIC-only controls. A 1:1
mixture of APIC and EPA wound fluid is in the linear range of inhibition. An improperly made
APIC, with less A2M concentration, may perform worse as an inhibitor.
[088]   Figures 36A and B depict graphs of collagenase activity in debridement tissues (A
 14073 1DMB-DT; B - 14073 1AW-DT) with and without A2M treatment. Serial dilutions of
APIC-PRP were challenged to inhibit DT digestion of FITC-collagen. lx means equal volumes
of DT and APIC-PRP. A 1x concentration of APIC was able to inhibit 75% of the collagenases
in the first 3 minutes of the digestion. Collagenase activity was reduced 10-fold when 3x APIC
was added to wound fluid. No digestion of collagen was seen in APIC-only controls. Less
protease activity in DT (compared to WF) was potently inhibited.
[089]   Figures 37A and B depict graphs (A - bar graph; B - line graph) of collagenase activity
in the indicated samples with and without A2M treatment at the indicated amounts. 14073 1NL
WF (1/400) was used to digest FITC-collagen Type I in the presence or absence of a serial
dilution of purified plasma A2M. Note that WF has numerous proteases that are inhibited by
A2M, but only the collagenases would be visible in this experiment. Thus, A2M efficacy is
underrepresented.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE
[090]   The details of one or more inventive embodiments are set forth in the accompanying
drawings, the claims, and in the description herein. Other features, objects, and advantages of
inventive embodiments disclosed and contemplated herein will be apparent from the description
and drawings, and from the claims. As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, the article "a"
means one or more unless explicitly otherwise provided for. As used herein, unless otherwise
indicated, terms such as "contain," "containing," "include," "including," and the like mean
"comprising." As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, the term "or" can be conjunctive or
disjunctive. As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, any embodiment can be combined with
any other embodiment. As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, some inventive embodiments
herein contemplate numerical ranges. When ranges are present, the ranges include the range
endpoints. Additionally, every sub-range and value within the range is present as if explicitly
written out.
Definitions
[091]   The term "substantially non-immunogenic" or "substantially non-antigenic" means that
the composition being administered to a subject does not elicit an immune response to the
composition.
                                                  28

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
[092]   A "subject" refers to a donor, recipient or host of the composition of the present
invention. In some embodiments, the donor and the recipient are the same. In some embodiments
the subject is a human subject.
[093]   A "proteoglycan" refers to a special class of proteins that are heavily glycosylated. A
proteoglycan is made up of a core protein with numerous covalently attached high sulphated
glycosaminoglycan chain(s). Non-limiting example of extracellular matrix proteoglycans include
aggrecan and certain collagens, such as collagen IX.
[094]   A "glycosaminoglycan" or "GAG" as used herein refers to a long unbranched
polysaccharide molecules found on the cell surface or within the extracellular matrix. Non
limiting examples of glycosaminoglycan include heparin, chondroitin sulfate, dextran sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfate, keratan sulfate, hyaluronic acid, hexuronyl hexosaminoglycan
sulfate, and inositol hexasulfate.
[095]   The term "non-autologous" refers to tissue or cells which originate from a donor other
than the recipient. Non-autologous can refer to, for example, allogeneic or xenogeneic. The term
"autologous" as in an autologous composition, refers to a composition in which the donor and
recipient is the same individual. Likewise, "allogeneic" refers to a donor and a recipient of the
same species; "syngeneic" refers to a donor and recipient with identical genetic make-up (e.g.,
identical twins or autogeneic) and "xenogeneic" refers to donor and recipient of different species.
[096]   The term "variant" (or "analog") refers to any molecule differing from the naturally
occurring molecule.
[097]   The term "variant polynucleotide" (or "analog") refers to any polynucleotide differing
from the naturally occurring polynucleotide. For example, "variant A2M polynucleotide" refers
to any A2M polynucleotide differing from naturally occurring A2M polynucleotides. A variant
A2M polynucleotide includes a polynucleotide sequence different from the wild-type A2M
polynucleotide sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1). Variant polynucleotides can be characterized by
nucleic acid insertions, deletions, and substitutions, created using, for example, recombinant
DNA techniques. A variant A2M polynucleotide preferably includes a mutation, insertion,
deletion, or a combination thereof, in the bait region of a wild-type A2M polynucleotide
sequence. As used herein, when referring to polypeptides, the "bait region" includes the region
of an A2M polynucleotide that encodes the region of the A2M polypeptide that binds to
proteases, for example, regions that contain protease recognition sites. A variant A2M
polynucleotide includes an "A2M acceptor sequence" (SEQ ID NO: 2) which includes a
polynucleotide sequence of A2M with point mutations that can aid in creating variant A2M
polynucleotides by recombinant DNA techniques, for example, by creating restriction enzyme
                                                  29

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
cloning sites to aid in inserting various polynucleotide sequences encoding the variant bait
regions. Bait regions include SEQ ID NOs: 5-66 and sequences substantially similar to SEQ ID
NOs: 5-66.
[098]    The term "variant polypeptide" refers to any polypeptide differing from the naturally
occurring polypeptide. For example, "variant A2M polypeptide" refers to any A2M polypeptide
differing from naturally occurring A2M polypeptides. Variant polypeptides can be characterized
by amino acid insertions, deletions, and substitutions, created using, for example, recombinant
DNA techniques. A variant A2M polypeptide includes a polypeptide sequence different from the
wild-type A2M polypeptide sequence. A variant A2M polypeptide preferably includes a
mutation, insertion, deletion, or a combination thereof, in the bait region of a wild-type A2M
protein. When referring to polypeptides, the "bait region" includes the region of an A2M
polypeptide that binds to proteases, for example, a stretch of amino acids that contains one or
more protease recognition sites. A variant A2M polypeptide includes a polypeptide (SEQ ID
NO: 3) encoded by an A2M acceptor sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2). A "variant A2M polypeptide"
can have at least one amino acid sequence alteration in the bait region as compared to the amino
acid sequence of the corresponding wild-type polypeptide. An amino acid sequence alteration
can be, for example, a substitution, a deletion, or an insertion of one or more amino acids. A
variant A2M polypeptide can have any combination of amino acid substitutions, deletions or
insertions.
[099]    Guidance in determining which amino acid residues may be replaced, added or deleted
without abolishing activities of interest, may be found by comparing the sequence of the
particular polypeptide with that of homologous peptides and minimizing the number of amino
acid sequence changes made in regions of high homology (conserved regions) or by replacing
amino acids with consensus sequence. Alternatively, recombinant variants encoding these same
or similar polypeptides may be synthesized or selected by making use of the "redundancy" in the
genetic code. Various codon substitutions, such as the silent changes which produce various
restriction sites, may be introduced to optimize cloning into a plasmid or viral vector or
expression in a particular prokaryotic or eukaryotic system. Mutations in the polynucleotide
sequence may be reflected in the polypeptide or domains of other peptides added to the
polypeptide to modify the properties of any part of the polypeptide, to change characteristics
such as inhibition of proteases, ligand-binding affinities, interchain affinities, or
degradation/turnover rate. Variant nucleotides can also be used to generate polypeptides that are
better suited for expression, scale up and the like in the host cells chosen for expression. For
                                                  30

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
example, cysteine residues can be deleted or substituted with another amino acid residue in order
to eliminate disulfide bridges.
[0100] An amino acid "substitution" includes replacing one amino acid with another amino acid
having similar structural and/or chemical properties, for example, conservative amino acid
replacements. "Conservative" amino acid substitutions can be made on the basis of similarity in
polarity, charge, solubility, hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, the amphipathic nature of the
residues involved, or a combination thereof. Nonpolar (hydrophobic) amino acids include
alanine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and methionine. Polar
neutral amino acids include glycine, serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine, and
glutamine. Positively charged (basic) amino acids include arginine, lysine, and histidine.
Negatively charged (acidic) amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid. "Insertions" or
"deletions" are preferably in the range of about 1 to 50 amino acids, more preferably 1 to 30
amino acids. The variation allowed can be experimentally determined by inserting, deleting, or
substituting amino acids in a polypeptide using recombinant DNA techniques and assaying the
resulting recombinant variants for activity, for example, protease inhibition activity.
[0101] The terms "purified" or "substantially purified" as used herein denotes that the indicated
nucleic acid or polypeptide is present in the substantial absence of other biological
macromolecules, for example, polynucleotides, proteins, and the like. The polynucleotide or
polypeptide can be purified such that it constitutes at least 95% by weight, for example, at least
99% by weight, of the indicated biological macromolecules present. Water, buffers, and other
small molecules with a molecular weight of less than 1000 Daltons, can be present in any
amount. The term "isolated" as used herein refers to a polynucleotide or polypeptide separated
from at least one other component present with the polynucleotide or polypeptide in its natural
source. In some embodiments, the polynucleotide or polypeptide can be found in the presence of
only a solvent, buffer, ion, or other components normally present in a solution of the same. The
terms "isolated" and "purified" do not encompass polynucleotides or polypeptides present in
their natural source.
[0102] As used herein, "recombinant polypeptides" include polypeptides or proteins derived
from recombinant expression systems, for example, microbial, insect, or mammalian expression
systems. Polypeptides or proteins expressed in most bacterial cultures will be free of
glycosylation modifications; polypeptides or proteins expressed in yeast can have a glycosylation
pattern in general different from those expressed in mammalian cells.
[0103] The term "expression vector" refers to a plasmid or phage or virus or vector, for
expressing a polypeptide from a DNA or RNA sequence. An expression vector can include a
                                                  31

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
transcriptional unit comprising an assembly of a genetic element or elements having a regulatory
role in gene expression, for example, promoters or enhancers, a structural or coding sequence
which is transcribed into mRNA and translated into protein, and appropriate transcription
initiation and termination sequences. Structural units intended for use in yeast or eukaryotic
expression systems can include a leader sequence enabling extracellular secretion of translated
protein by a host cell. Alternatively, where recombinant protein is expressed without a leader or
transport sequence, it can include an amino terminal methionine residue. This residue may or
may not be subsequently cleaved from the expressed recombinant protein to provide a final
product.
[0104] The term "recombinant expression system" means host cells which have stably integrated
a recombinant transcriptional unit into chromosomal DNA or carry the recombinant
transcriptional unit extrachromosomally. Recombinant expression systems can be used to
express heterologous polypeptides or proteins upon induction of the regulatory elements linked
to the DNA segment or synthetic gene to be expressed. This term includes host cells which have
stably integrated a recombinant genetic element or elements having a regulatory role in gene
expression, for example, promoters or enhancers. Recombinant expression systems can be used
to express polypeptides or proteins endogenous to the cell upon induction of the regulatory
elements linked to the endogenous DNA segment or gene to be expressed. The cells can be
prokaryotic or eukaryotic.
[0105] The term "secreted" includes a protein that is transported across or through a membrane,
including transport as a result of signal sequences in its amino acid sequence when it is
expressed in a suitable host cell. "Secreted" proteins include without limitation proteins secreted
wholly, for example soluble proteins, or partially, for example receptors, from the cell in which
they are expressed. "Secreted" proteins also include proteins transported across the membrane of
the endoplasmic reticulum. "Secreted" proteins also include proteins containing non-typical
signal sequences.
[0106] An expression vector may be designed to contain a "signal sequence" which will direct
the polypeptide through the membrane of a cell. A signal sequence can be naturally present on
the polypeptides described herein or provided from heterologous protein sources.
[0107] As used herein, "substantially equivalent" or "substantially similar" can refer both to
nucleotide and amino acid sequences, for example a variant sequence, that varies from a
reference sequence by one or more substitutions, deletions, or additions, the net effect of which
does not result in an adverse functional dissimilarity between the reference and subject
sequences. Typically, such a substantially equivalent sequence varies from one of those listed
                                                  32

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
herein by no more than about 35%. For example, the number of individual residue substitutions,
additions, and/or deletions in a substantially equivalent sequence, as compared to the
corresponding reference sequence, divided by the total number of residues in the substantially
equivalent sequence is about 0.35 or less. A substantially equivalent sequence includes
sequences with 65% sequence identity to the reference sequence. A substantially equivalent
sequence of the invention can vary from a reference sequence by no more than 3 0% ( 7 0%
sequence identity), no more than 25% (75% sequence identity), no more than 20% (80%
sequence identity), no more than 10% ( 9 0% sequence identity), or no more that 5% ( 9 5 %
sequence identity). Substantially equivalent amino acid sequences according to the invention
preferably have at least 80% sequence identity with a reference amino acid sequence, at least
85% sequence identity, at least 90% sequence identity, at least 95% sequence identity, at least
98% sequence identity, or at least 99% sequence identity. Substantially equivalent
polynucleotide sequences of the invention can have lower percent sequence identities, taking into
account, for example, the redundancy or degeneracy of the genetic code. Preferably, the
polynucleotide sequence has at least about 65%, at least about 75% , at least about 80%, at least
85%, at least 9 0%, at least 9 5%, at least 98
                                               %, or at least 99% sequence identity. Sequences
having substantially equivalent biological activity and substantially equivalent expression
characteristics are considered substantially equivalent. Identity between sequences can be
determined by methods known in the art, such as by alignment of the sequences or varying
hybridization conditions.
[0108] As used herein the term "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" means a
dosage sufficient to treat, inhibit, or alleviate chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous
ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any
combination thereof in a subject in need thereof.
[0109] By "degenerate variant" can be intended nucleotide fragments which differ from a nucleic
acid fragment of the present invention (e.g., an ORF) by nucleotide sequence but, due to the
degeneracy of the genetic code, encode an identical polypeptide sequence.
[0110] The terms polypeptide, peptide, and protein can be used interchangeably and can refer to
a polymer of amino acid residues or a variant thereof. Amino acid polymers can have one or
more amino acid residues and can be an artificial chemical mimetic of a corresponding naturally
occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers, those containing
modified residues, and non-naturally occurring amino acid polymers. A variant polypeptide can
have at least one amino acid sequence alteration as compared to the amino acid sequence of the
corresponding wild-type polypeptide. An amino acid sequence alteration can be, for example, a
                                                    33

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
substitution, a deletion, or an insertion of one or more amino acids. A variant polypeptide can
have any combination of amino acid substitutions, deletions or insertions. An amino acid
sequence alteration can be formed by altering the nucleotide sequence from which it is derived,
such as a mutation, for example, a frameshift mutation, nonsense mutation, missense mutation,
neutral mutation, or silent mutation. For example, sequence differences, when compared to a
wild-type nucleotide sequence, can include the insertion or deletion of a single nucleotide, or of
more than one nucleotide, resulting in a frame shift; the change of at least one nucleotide,
resulting in a change in the encoded amino acid; the change of at least one nucleotide, resulting
in the generation of a premature stop codon; the deletion of several nucleotides, resulting in a
deletion of one or more amino acids encoded by the nucleotides; the insertion of one or several
nucleotides, such as by unequal recombination or gene conversion, resulting in an interruption of
the coding sequence of a reading frame; duplication of all or a part of a sequence; transposition;
or a rearrangement of a nucleotide sequence. Such sequence changes can alter the polypeptide
encoded by the nucleic acid, for example, if the change in the nucleic acid sequence causes a
frame shift, the frame shift can result in a change in the encoded amino acids, and/or can result in
the generation of a premature stop codon, causing generation of a truncated polypeptide.
[0111] The term "fragment" can refer to any subset of the polypeptide that can be a shorter
polypeptide of the full length protein. Fragments of A2M can include 20, 30, 40, 50 or more
amino acids from A2M that can be detected with anti- A2M antibodies. Other fragments of A2M
include various domains of A2M and combinations thereof.
[0112] "Platelet-rich plasma" ("PRP") can refer to blood plasma that has been enriched with
platelets.
[0113] "Platelet-poor plasma" ("PPP") can refer to blood plasma that has been depleted of
platelets.
Wounds and Wound Classification
[0114] Chronic wounds, slow healing wounds, and incomplete healing wounds often result in
infection and can lead to amputation or death. It has been discovered that use of certain
compounds, including those described or referenced herein, may block, inhibit, or alter cell
communications, which may promote closure and healing in chronic, slow healing, and
incomplete healing wounds.
[0115] By "wound" is meant an injury to any tissue, including, for example, acute, delayed,
slow, or difficult to heal wounds, and chronic wounds. Examples of wounds may include both
open and closed wounds. Wounds include, for example, bums, incisions, excisions, lacerations,
                                                   34

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
abrasions, puncture or penetrating wounds, surgical wounds, contusions, hematomas, crushing
injuries, and ulcers. Also included are wounds that do not heal at expected rates.
[0116] By a "slow healing wound" is meant an injury to any tissue that does not heal in an
expected or typical time frame, including delayed, slow, or difficult to heal wounds (including
delayed or incompletely healing wounds), and chronic wounds. Examples of wounds that do not
heal at the expected rate include diabetic ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, vasculitic ulcers, arterial
ulcers, venous ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, pressure ulcers, decubitus ulcers, infectious ulcers,
trauma-induced ulcers, bum ulcers, ulcerations associated with pyoderma gangrenosum, and
mixed ulcers.
[0117] As described herein, a slow healing wound may include, for example, a wound that is
characterized at least in part by one or more of 1) a prolonged inflammatory phase, 2) a slow
forming extracellular matrix, and 3) a stalled or decreased rate of epithelialization.
[0118] In the art, the term "chronic wound" refers generally to a wound that has not healed
within about three months, but can be wounds that have not healed within about one or two
months. Chronic skin wounds include, for example, pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, venous
ulcers, arterial ulcers, inflammatory ulcers, and mixed ulcers. The chronic wound may be an
arterial ulcer that can include ulcerations resulting from complete or partial arterial blockage.
The chronic wound may be a venous stasis ulcer, which can include ulcerations resulting from a
malfunction of the venous valve and the associated vascular disease. The chronic wound may be
a trauma-induced ulcer.
[0119] As used herein, chronic wound can also include, for example, a wound that is
characterized at least in part by 1) a chronic self-perpetuating state of wound inflammation, 2) a
deficient and defective wound extracellular matrix (ECM), 3) poorly responding (senescent)
wound cells (e.g., fibroblasts), limited ECM production, and 4) failure of re-epithelialization due
in part to lack of the necessary ECM orchestration and lack of scaffold for migration.
[0120] Chronic wounds can also be characterized, for example, by 1) prolonged inflammation
and proteolytic activity, leading to ulcerative lesions, including, for example, diabetic, pressure
(decubitus), venous, and arterial ulcers, 2) prolonged fibrosis in the wound leading to scarring, 3)
progressive deposition of matrix in the affected area, 4) longer repair times, 5) less wound
contraction, 6) slower re-epithelialization, and 7) increased thickness of granulation tissue.
[0121] Exemplary chronic wounds also include "pressure ulcers." Exemplary pressure ulcers
may include all four stages of wound classifications based on AHCPR (Agency for Health Care
Policy and Research, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services) guidelines, including for
example, Stage 1. A Stage 1 pressure ulcer is an observable pressure related alteration of intact
                                                   35

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
skin whose indicators as compared to the adjacent or opposite area on the body may include
changes in one or more of the following: skin temperature (warmth or coolness), tissue
consistency (firm or boggy feel), and/or sensation (pain, itching). The ulcer appears as a defined
area of persistent redness in lightly pigmented skin, whereas in darker skin tones, the ulcer may
appear with persistent red, blue, or purple hues. Stage 1 ulcerations may include non-blanchable
erythema of intact skin and the heralding lesion of skin ulceration. In individuals with darker
skin, discoloration of the skin, warmth, edema, induration, or hardness may also be indicators of
stage 1 ulcerations. Stage 2 ulcerations may be characterized by partial thickness skin loss
involving epidermis, dermis, or both. The ulcer is superficial and presents clinically as an
abrasion, blister, or shallow crater. Stage 3 ulcerations may be characterized by full thickness
skin loss involving damage to or necrosis of subcutaneous tissue that may extend down to, but
not through, underlying fascia. The ulcer presents clinically as a deep crater with or without
undermining of adjacent tissue. Stage 4 ulcerations may be characterized by full thickness skin
loss with extensive destruction, tissue necrosis, or damage to muscle, bone, or supporting
structures (e.g., tendon, joint capsule, etc.).
[0122] Exemplary chronic wounds also include "decubitus ulcers." Exemplary decubitus ulcer
may arise as a result of prolonged and unrelieved pressure over a bony prominence that leads to
ischemia. The wound tends to occur in patients who are unable to reposition themselves to off
load weight, such as paralyzed, unconscious, or severely debilitated persons. As defined by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the major preventive measures include
identification of high-risk patients; frequent assessment; and prophylactic measures such as
scheduled repositioning, appropriate pressure-relief bedding, moisture barriers, and adequate
nutritional status. Treatment options may include, for example, pressure relief, surgical and
enzymatic debridement, moist wound care, and bacterial load control. Certain embodiments of
the invention involve treating a chronic wound characterized by a decubitus ulcer or ulceration
that results from prolonged, unrelieved pressure over a bony prominence that leads to ischemia.
[0123] Exemplary chronic wounds also include "arterial ulcers." Arterial ulcers include those
characterized by complete or partial arterial blockage, which may lead to tissue necrosis and/or
ulceration. Signs of arterial ulcer can include, for example, pulselessness of the extremity;
painful ulceration; small, punctate ulcers that are usually well circumscribed; cool or cold skin;
delayed capillary return time (briefly push on the end of the toe and release, normal color should
return to the toe in about 3 seconds or less); atrophic-appearing skin (for example, shiny, thin,
dry); and loss of digital and pedal hair.
                                                   36

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
[0124] Exemplary chronic wounds also include "venous ulcers." Exemplary venous ulcers
include the most common type of ulcer affecting the lower extremities and may be characterized
by malfunction of the venous valve. The normal vein has valves that prevent the backflow of
blood. When these valves become incompetent, the backflow of venous blood causes venous
congestion. Hemoglobin from the red blood cells escapes and leaks into the extravascular space,
causing the brownish discoloration commonly noted. It has been shown that the transcutaneous
oxygen pressure of the skin surrounding a venous ulcer is decreased, indicating that there are
forces obstructing the normal vascularity of the area. Lymphatic drainage and flow also plays a
role in these ulcers. A venous ulcer can appear near the medial malleolus and usually occurs in
combination with an edematous and indurated lower extremity; it may be shallow, not too
painful, and may present with a weeping discharge from the affected site.
[0125] Exemplary chronic wounds also include "venous stasis ulcers." Exemplary venous stasis
ulcers are characterized by chronic passive venous congestion of the lower extremities that
results in local hypoxia. One possible mechanism of pathogenesis of these wounds includes the
impediment of oxygen diffusion into the tissue across thick perivascular fibrin cuffs. Another
mechanism is that macromolecules leaking into the perivascular tissue trap growth factors
needed for the maintenance of skin integrity. Additionally, the flow of large white blood cells
slows due to venous congestion, occluding capillaries, becoming activated, and damaging the
vascular endothelium to predispose to ulcer formation.
[0126] Exemplary chronic wounds further include "diabetic foot ulcers." Diabetic patients with
exemplary diabetic foot ulcer are prone to foot ulcerations due to both neurologic and vascular
complications. Peripheral neuropathy can cause altered or complete loss of sensation in the foot
and/or leg. Diabetic patients with advanced neuropathy lose all ability for sharp-dull
discrimination. Any cuts or trauma to the foot may go completely unnoticed for days or weeks in
a patient with neuropathy. A patient with advanced neuropathy can lose the ability to sense a
sustained pressure insult and, as a result, tissue ischemia and necrosis may occur leading to, for
example, plantar ulcerations. Additionally, microfractures in the bones of the foot, if unnoticed
and untreated, may result in disfigurement, chronic swelling, and additional bony prominences.
Microvascular disease is one of the significant complications for diabetics that may also lead to
ulcerations.
[0127] Exemplary chronic wounds can include "traumatic ulcers." Formation of exemplary
traumatic ulcers may occur as a result of traumatic injuries to the body. These injuries include,
for example, compromises to the arterial, venous, or lymphatic systems; changes to the bony
                                                   37

 WO 2015/031654                                                                     PCT/US2014/053223
architecture of the skeleton; loss of tissue layers-epidermis, dermis, subcutaneous soft tissue,
muscle or bone; damage to body parts or organs and loss of body parts or organs.
[0128] Exemplary chronic wounds can include "burn ulcers" including, for example, ulceration
that occur as a result of a bum injury, including a first degree bum (i.e., superficial, reddened
area of skin); a second degree bum (a blistered injury site which may heal spontaneously after
the blister fluid has been removed); a third degree burn (burn through the entire skin and usually
require surgical intervention for wound healing); scalding (may occur from scalding hot water,
grease or radiator fluid); a thermal burn (may occur from flames, usually deep burns); a chemical
bum (may come from acid and alkali, usually deep burns); an electrical bum (either low voltage
around a house or high voltage at work); an explosion flash (usually superficial injuries); and
contact bums (usually deep and may occur from muffler tail pipes, hot irons, and stoves).
Compositions for Autologous Treatment of Wounds
[0129] Provided herein are autologous compositions. The autologous compositions can be
prepared from a biological sample from a subject and administered back to the same subject.
[0130] Also provided herein are therapeutic autologous compositions and methods for their
preparation and use. Also provided herein are methods, systems, kits and compositions for the
detection, diagnosis, and treatment of inflammation, ECM degradation, and chronic wounds such
as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial
insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof.
[0131] An autologous composition can comprise alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M) and can be used
to treat a subject with a condition. The A2M can be from a biological sample, such as from a
human subject; or can be any fragment thereof. In preferred embodiments the autologous
compositions of the present invention are substantially non-immunogenic, namely do not elicit
an immune response.
[0132] An autologous composition can comprise an elevated concentration of A2M compared to
the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample, such as the blood of normal subjects, or
the blood from a subject in need of autologous treatment with the autologous composition. The
concentration of A2M in an autologous composition can be at least about 1.1 times higher than
the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample. For example, the concentration of A2M
can be at least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5,
5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45,
50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times
higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample. For example, the
                                                     38

 WO 2015/031654                                                                       PCT/US2014/053223
concentration of A2M can be at least about 2 times higher than the concentration of A2M found
in the biological sample.
[0133] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can further comprise a reduced
concentration of components other than A2M compared to the normal concentration of the other
components, such as the concentration in a sample from which the autologous compositions
were prepared or an endogenous concentration of the other components in a biological sample.
An autologous composition can comprise a reduced concentration of other components isolated
from a biological sample compared to the normal concentration of the other components in the
biological sample. The concentration of other components can be at least about 10% less than the
concentration of the other components normally found in a biological sample. For example, the
concentration of other components can be at least about 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 20%, 25%,
30%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 7 0%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 95%, 100%, 150%,
2 0 0 %, 3 0 0 %, 4 0 0 %, 500%, 6 0 0 %, 7 0 0 %, 8 0 0 %, 9 0 0 %, or 1000% less than the concentration of
the other components normally found in a biological sample. For example, the concentration of
other components can be at least about 20% less than the concentration of the other components
normally found in a biological sample. The concentration of other components can be at least
about 0.1 times less than the concentration of the other components normally found in a
biological sample. For example, the concentration of other components can be at least about 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1, 2, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60,
65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 150, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times less
than the concentration of the other components normally found in a biological sample. For
example, the concentration of other components can be at least about 2 times less than the
concentration of the other components normally found in a biological sample.
[0134] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can comprise a reduced concentration
of one or more proteins with a molecular weight lower than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa. The
concentration of one or more proteins with a molecular weight lower than 500 kDa can be at
least about 1.1 times lower than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular
weight lower than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a normal biological sample, such as blood
from a subject. The concentration of one or more proteins with a molecular weight lower than
50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a normal biological sample can be the concentration of the
endogenous level of the one or more proteins with a molecular weight lower than 50, 100, and/or
500 kDa in a biological sample, such as a normal or control biological sample. For example, the
concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight lower than 100 kDa can be at least
about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5,
                                                          39

 WO 2015/031654                                                                    PCT/US2014/053223
 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85,
90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times lower than the concentration
of the one or more proteins with molecular weight lower than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a
normal biological sample or the endogenous concentration in a normal biological sample, or the
blood from a subject in need of autologous treatment with the autologous composition. For
example, the concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight lower than 50, 100,
and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.5 times lower than the concentration of the one or more
proteins with molecular weight lower than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a normal biological
sample or the endogenous concentration in a normal biological sample.
[0135] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can comprise an elevated
concentration of one or more proteins with a molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500
kDa than normally found in a biological sample. The concentration of one or more proteins with
a molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.1 times higher
than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100,
and/or 500 kDa found in a normal biological sample. The concentration of one or more proteins
with a molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a normal biological
sample can be the concentration of the endogenous level of the one or more proteins with a
molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa in the biological sample. For example, the
concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500
kDa can be at least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7,
7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60,
65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than
the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or
500 kDa found in a normal biological sample or the endogenous concentration in a normal
biological sample. For example, the concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight
higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.5 times higher than the concentration
of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in
a normal biological.
[0136] In some embodiments, proteins with a molecular weight from about 300-500 kDa, 100
500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa, such as fibronectin, fibrinogen, and fibrin monomers or polymers
may be partially concentrated using the methods described herein. In some embodiments, an
autologous composition can comprise an elevated concentration of one or more proteins with a
molecular weight from about 300-500 kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa. In some
embodiments, the concentration of one or more proteins with a molecular weight higher than
                                                    40

 WO 2015/031654                                                                      PCT/US2014/053223
from about 300-500 kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa can be at least about 1.1 times higher
than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight from about 300-500
kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa found in a normal biological sample, such as blood from
a subject. The concentration of one or more proteins with a molecular weight from about 300
500 kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa found in a normal biological sample can be the
concentration of the endogenous level of the one or more proteins with a molecular weight from
about 300-500 kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa in a biological sample, such as a normal or
control biological sample. For example, the concentration of one or more proteins with
molecular weight from about 300-500 kDa, 100-500 kDa, and/or 50-500 kDa can be at least
about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5,
 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85,
90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration
of the one or more proteins with molecular weight from about 300-500 kDa, 100-500 kDa,
and/or 50-500 kDa found in a normal biological sample or the endogenous concentration in a
normal biological sample.
[0137] An autologous composition can comprise an elevated concentration of A2M compared to
the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and a reduced concentration of
components other than A2M compared to the normal concentration of the other components
found in a biological sample. The concentration of A2M in an autologous composition can be at
least about 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the
concentration of other components other than A2M can be at least about 0.1 times less than the
concentration of the other components normally found in a biological sample. For example, the
concentration of A2M can be at least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4,
4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35,
40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or
 1000 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the
concentration of components other than A2M can be at least about 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
0.8, 0.9, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90,
95, 100, 150, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times less than the concentration of
the other components normally found in a biological sample. For example, the concentration of
the concentration of A2M can be at least about 2 times higher than the concentration of A2M
found in a biological sample and the concentration of components other than A2M can be at least
about 2 times less than the concentration of the other components normally found in a biological
sample. As another example, the concentration of A2M can be at least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5,
                                                      41

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300,
400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a
biological sample and the concentration of other components can be at least about 11%, 12%,
 13% , 14%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55% 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%,                          8 0 %,
85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 150%, 200%, 300%, 400%, 500%, 600%, 700%, 800%, 900%, or
 1000% less than the concentration of the other components normally found in a biological
sample. For example, the concentration of A2M can be at least about 2 times higher than the
concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of other components
can be at least about 2 0% less than the concentration of the other components normally found in
a biological sample.
[0138] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can comprise an elevated
concentration of A2M compared to the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and
an elevated concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100,
and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample. The concentration of A2M in an autologous
composition can be at least about 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a
biological sample and the concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher
than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.1 times higher than the concentration of the
one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a
biological sample. For example, the concentration of the concentration of A2M can be at least
about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5,
 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85,
90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration
of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of one or more proteins with
molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6,
 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400,
500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins
with molecular weight higher than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample.
For example, the concentration of A2M can be at least about 2 times higher than the
concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of one or more
proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 2 times
higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than
about 100 kDa found in a biological sample.
                                                        42

 WO 2015/031654                                                                      PCT/US2014/053223
[0139] The concentration of A2M and other proteins with a molecular weight higher than 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at least about 1.1 times higher than their
concentration in a biological sample after retention by one or more filters using the methods or
systems described herein. For example, the concentration of A2M and other proteins with a
molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at
least about 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9,
9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80,
85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than their
concentration in a biological sample after retention by one or more filters using the methods or
systems described herein. For example, the concentration of A2M and other proteins with a
molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at
least about 1.5 times higher than their concentration in a biological sample after retention by one
or more filters using the methods or systems described herein.
[0140] The concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500
kDa can be less than about 10% of the concentrations of those proteins in a biological sample
when retained by the one or more filters using the methods or systems described herein. For
example, the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500
kDa can be less than about 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%,
55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 150%, 200%, 300%, 400%, 500%,
6 0 0 %, 7 0 0 %, 8 0 0 %, 9 0 0 %, or 1000% less than their concentration in a biological sample when
retained by the one or more filters using the methods or systems described herein. For example,
the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can
be less than about 20% less than their concentration in a biological sample when retained by the
one or more filters using the methods or systems described herein.
[0141] In some embodiments, the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than
about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be less than about 10% of the concentrations of those proteins
in a biological sample when retained by the one or more filters. For example, the concentration
of proteins with molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be less than about
 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 2 0%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55% 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 150%, 200%, 300%, 400%, 500%, 600%, 700%, 800%,
900%, or 1000% less than their concentration in a biological sample when retained by the one or
more filters. For example, the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about
50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be less than about 2 0% less than their concentration in a biological
sample when retained by the one or more filters.
                                                      43

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
[0142] The concentration of A2M and other proteins with a molecular weight higher than 50,
100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at least about 1.1 times higher than their
concentration in a biological sample after retention by one or more filters using the methods or
systems described herein and the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about
50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be less than about 10% of the concentrations of those proteins in a
biological sample when retained by the one or more filters using the methods or systems
described herein. For example, the concentration of A2M and other proteins with a molecular
weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at least about
1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10,
10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90,
95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than their concentration in
a biological sample after retention by one or more filters using the methods or systems described
herein, and the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or
500 kDa can be less than about 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,
50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 150%, 200%, 300%, 400%,
        60 0    70 0    80 0    90 0
500%,        %,      %,      %,      %, or 1000% less than their concentration in a biological sample
when retained by the one or more filters using the methods or systems described herein. For
example, the concentration of A2M and other proteins with a molecular weight higher than 50,
100, and/or 500 kDa can be present at a concentration of at least about 1.5 times higher than their
concentration in a biological sample after retention by one or more filters using the methods or
systems described herein, and the concentration of proteins with molecular weight less than
about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be less than about 10% less than their concentration in a
biological sample when retained by the one or more filters.
[0143] Proteins with a molecular weight higher than about 100 kDa can be, for example, proteins
with a molecular weight at least about 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa, 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 200 kDa,
250 kDa, 300 kDa, 350 kDa, 400 kDa, 450 kDa, 500 kDa, 550 kDa, 600 kDa, 650 kDa, 700 kDa,
750 kDa, 800 kDa, 850 kDa, 900 kDa, 950 kDa, 1000 kDa, 1050 kDa, 1100 kDa, 1150 kDa,
1200 kDa, 1250 kDa, 1300 kDa, 1350 kDa, 1400 kDa, 1450 kDa, 1500 kDa, 1550 kDa, 1600
kDa, 1650 kDa, 1700 kDa, 1750 kDa, 1800 kDa, 1850 kDa, 1900 kDa, 1950 kDa, 2000 kDa, or
more.
[0144] Proteins with a molecular weight less than about 100 kDa can be, for example, proteins
with a molecular weight of less than about 95 kDa, 90 kDa, 85 kDa, 80 kDa, 75 kDa, 70 kDa, 65
kDa, 60 kDa, 55 kDa, 50 kDa, 45 kDa, 40 kDa, 35 kDa, 30 kDa, 25 kDa, 20 kDa, 15 kDa, 10
kDa, 5 kDa, or less.
                                                       44

 WO 2015/031654                                                           PCT/US2014/053223
[0145] Proteins with a molecular weight higher than about 500 kDa can be, for example, proteins
with a molecular weight higher than about 550 kDa, 600 kDa, 650 kDa, 700 kDa, 750 kDa, 800
kDa, 850 kDa, 900 kDa, 950 kDa, 1000 kDa, 1050 kDa, 1100 kDa, 1150 kDa, 1200 kDa, 1250
kDa, 1300 kDa, 1350 kDa, 1400 kDa, 1450 kDa, 1500 kDa, 1550 kDa, 1600 kDa, 1650 kDa,
 1700 kDa, 1750 kDa, 1800 kDa, 1850 kDa, 1900 kDa, 1950 kDa, 2000 kDa, or higher. Proteins
with a molecular weight less than about 500 kDa can be, for example, proteins with a molecular
weight less than about 450 kDa, 400 kDa, 350 kDa, 300 kDa, 250 kDa, 200 kDa, 150 kDa, 100
kDa, 50 kDa, 45 kDa, 40 kDa, 35 kDa, 30 kDa, 25 kDa, 20 kDa, 15 kDa, 10 kDa, 5 kDa, or less.
[0146] Proteins with a molecular weight higher than 100 kDa can include, but are not limited to,
immunoglobulin G, immunoglobulin M, fibronectin, fibrinogen and other proteins. Proteins with
a molecular weight less than about 100 kDa can comprise cytokines, chemokines, proteases, pro
proteases, enzymes, pro-enzymes, immune-modulators and other proteins known in the art with a
molecular weight of less than 100 kDa.
[0147] Proteins with a molecular weight higher than 500 kDa include, but are not limited to, IgM
and Complement Component C4 binding proteins. Proteins with a molecular weight less than
about 500 kDa can comprise cytokines, chemokines, proteases, pro-proteases, enzymes, pro
enzymes, immune-modulators and other proteins with a molecular weight of less than 500 kDa.
[0148] The concentration of A2M found in a biological sample, such as a blood sample from a
normal subject, can be between about 0. 1mg/mL to about 6mg/mL. For example, the
concentration of A2M found in a blood sample from a normal subject or a normal biological
sample can be between about 0. 1mg/mL to 5.5mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to 5mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to
4.5mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to 4mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to 3.5mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to 3mg/mL, 0. 1mg/mL to
2.5mg/mL, 0.1mg/mL to 2mg/mL, 0.1mg/mL to 1.5mg/mL, 0.1mg/mL to Img/mL, 0.1mg/mL to
0.75mg/mL, 0.1mg/mL to 0.5mg/mL, 0.1mg/mL to 0.25mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 6mg/mL, 1mg/mL
to 5.5mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 5mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 4.5mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 4mg/mL, 1mg/mL to
3.5mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 3mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 2.5mg/mL, 1mg/mL to 2mg/mL, 1mg/mL to
 1.5mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 6mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 5.5mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 5mg/mL, 2mg/mL to
4.5mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 4mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 3.5mg/mL, 2mg/mL to 3mg/mL, 2mg/mL to
2.5mg/mL, 3mg/mL to 6mg/mL, 3mg/mL to 5.5mg/mL, 3mg/mL to 5mg/mL, 3mg/mL to
4.5mg/mL, 3mg/mL to 4mg/mL, 3mg/mL to 3.5mg/mL, 4mg/mL to 6mg/mL, 4mg/mL to
5.5mg/mL, 4mg/mL to 5mg/mL, 4mg/mL to 4.5mg/mL, 5mg/mL to 6mg/mL, or 5mg/mL to
5.5mg/mL.
[0149] In some embodiments, an autologous composition with an elevated concentration of
A2M can be characterized by a reduction in the concentration of or a change in the ratios of
                                              45

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
cytokines, chemokines, other immunomodulatory mediators, for example, cytokines,
chemokines, other immunomodulatory mediators with a molecular weight less than about 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa. In some embodiments, a retentate with an elevated concentration of A2M
can be characterized by a reduction in the concentration of or a change in the ratios of cytokines,
chemokines, other immunomodulatory mediators, for example, cytokines, chemokines, other
immunomodulatory mediators with a molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa.
Other immunomodulatory mediators can include peptides, proteins, DNA, RNA, carbohydrates,
other small molecules, proteases, and other degradative proteins.
[0150] Cytokines, chemokines and other molecules in a composition with a reduction in
concentration from a sample can be involved in inflammation. Cytokines can be small cell
signaling protein molecules that are secreted by one or more cells and are a category of signaling
molecules that can be used in intercellular communication. Cytokines can be classified as
proteins, peptides, or glycoproteins, chemokines, interleukins, tumor necrosis factors (TNFs),
monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs), IL-I-like cytokines, gamma chain cytokines, beta
chain cytokines, IL-6-like cytokines, IL-O-like cytokines, interferons, tumor necrosis factors,
TGF-beta, macrophage inflammatory proteins (MIPs), tumor growth factors (TGFs), and matrix
metalloproteases (MMPs). For example, cytokines can be interleukins, such as IL-I-like, IL-la
(hematopoietin-1), IL-1I (catabolin), IL-iRA (IL-i receptor antagonist), IL-18 (interferon-7
inducing factor), Common g chain (CD132), IL-2 (T cell growth factor), IL-4 (BSF-1), IL-7, IL
9 (T cell growth factor P40), IL-13 (P600),IL-15, Common b chain (CD13 1), IL-3
(multipotential CSF, MCGF), IL-5 (BCDF-1), GM-CSF (CSF-2), IL-6-like, IL-6 (IFN-32, BSF
2), IL-I1 (AGIF), G-CSF (CSF-3), IL-12 (NK cell stimulatory factor), LIF (leukemia inhibitory
factor), OSM (oncostatin M), IL-O-like, IL-10 (CSIF), IL-20, IL-14 (HMW-BCGF), IL-16
(LCF), and IL-17 (CTLA-8); interferons, such as IFN-a, IFN-3, and IFN-7, tumor necrosis
factors (TNFs), such as CD154 (CD40L, TRAP), LT-3, TNF-a (cachectin), TNF-3 (LT-a), 4
 1BBL, APRIL (TALL-2), CD70 (CD27L), CD153 (CD30L), CD178 (FasL), GITRL, LIGHT,
OX40L, TALL-1, TRAIL (Apo2L), TWEAK (Apo3L), and TRANCE (OPGL); tumor growth
factors, such as TGF-1 I, (TGF-3), TGF-32, and TGF-33; and hematopoietins, such as Epo
(erythropoietin), Tpo (MGDF), Flt-3L, SCF (stem cell factor, c-kit ligand), M-CSF (CSF-1), and
MSP (Macrophage stimulating factor). Other cytokines can include MST-i, CD40LG (TNFSF5),
IFNA2, IL1O, IL13, IL17C, ILIA, ILIB, ILIF1O, IL36RN, IL36A, IL37, IL36B, IL36G, IL22,
IL5, IL8, IL9, LTA, LTB, MIF, AIMP1, SPP1, and TNF. Exemplary, cytokine receptors can be
IFNA2, ILORA, IL1ORB, IL13, IL13RA1, IL5RA, IL9, and IL9R.
                                                46

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
[0151] Chemokines can be a family of small cytokines, or proteins secreted by cells. Some
chemokines can be pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit
cells of an immune system to a site of infection, while others can be homeostatic and can be
involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or
development. For example, chemokines can be XCLI (lymphoactin a, SCM-la, ATAC), XCL2
(lymphoactin b, SCM-Ib, ATAC,) CCL1 (1-309), CCL2 (MCP-1, MCAF), CCL3 (MIP-lIa,
LD78a.), CCL4 (MIP-1, LAG-1, ACT-2), CCL5 (RANTES), CCL7 (MCP-3), CCL8 (MCP-2),
CCLII (eotaxin), CCL13 (MCP-4), CCL14 (HCC-1), CCL15 (HCC-2, Lkn-1, MIP-Id, MIP-5),
CCL16 (HCC-4, LEC, LMC, LCC-i), CCL17 (TARC), CCL18 (DC-CKi, PARC, AMAC-a,
MIP-4), CCL19 (MIP-33, ELC, exodus-3), CCL20 (MIP-3a, LARC, exodus-1), CCL21 (6Ckine,
SLC, exodus-2), CCL22 (MDC, STCP-1), CCL23 (MPIF-1, MIP-3, CKb-8), CCL24 (MPIF-2,
eotaxin-2, CKb-6), CCL25 (TECK, MIP-4a), CCL26 (eotaxin-3), CCL27 (Eskine, CTACK,
ILC), CXCLi (GROa, MGSA-a), CXCL2 (GROb, MGSA-b, MIP-2a), CXCL3 (GROg, MGSA
g, MIP-2b), CXCL4 (PF4, oncostatin A), CXCL5 (ENA-78, CXCL6 (GCP-2), CXCL7 (NAP-2,
PPBP), CXCL8 (IL-8, NAP-1, NAF, MDNCF), CXCL9 (Mig), CXCL10 (IP-10), CXCL I1( I
TAC), CXCL12 (SDF-la/3), CXCL13 (BLC, BCA-i), CXCL14 (BRAK), CX3CLi (fractaline).
Chemokine receptors can be CCL13 (mcp-4), CCRI, CCR2, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6,
CCR7, CCR8, CCR9, CX3CRi, CXCRi, XCRi (CCXCRi). Other proteins involved in
inflammation can be ABCF1, BCL6, C3, C4A, CEBPB, CRP, CARD18, ILIR1, ILIRN,
CXCR2, LTB4R, and TOLLIP.
[0152] Any of the autologous compositions described herein comprising A2M can further
comprise one or more additional non-blood derived components. Non-blood derived components
can be added before, during, or after isolation by any of the methods or using any of the systems
described herein. A non-blood derived component can be obtained from non-blood tissues. A
non-blood derived component can be an anti-coagulant. For example, a non-blood derived
component or an anti-coagulant can be EDTA, tri-sodium citrate, water for injection (WFI),
acid-citrate-dextrose (ACD), citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD), citrate-phosphate-double
dextrose (CP2D), citrate-phosphate-dextrose-adenine (CPDAi), or saline.
[0153] Any of the autologous compositions described herein can comprise one or more
additional blood products or blood-derived components. Blood products or blood-derived
components can be added before, during, or after isolation by any of the methods described
herein. Blood products or blood-derived components can be cells, peptides, proteins, DNA,
RNA, carbohydrates, or other small molecules. For example, blood products or blood-derived
components can be red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, packed red blood cells, platelet
                                                 47

 WO 2015/031654                                                                    PCT/US2014/053223
rich plasma, platelet concentrates, fresh plasma, fresh frozen plasma, frozen plasma,
cryoprecipitate and cryosupernant.
[0154] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can contain PRP. PRP is an autologous
blood product used by orthopedic healthcare providers due to the ability of platelet concentrates
to release growth factors to a surgical site along with a bone graft. Platelets can be prepared by
any means known in the art. The cellular components of PRP products generally include platelets
with concentrations at least about 2 times the concentration of platelets in whole blood. For
example, an autologous composition can contain platelets with a concentration of at least about
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 40, or 50 times the
concentration of platelets in whole blood. PRP products can also comprise variable
concentrations of other growth factors released upon platelet degranulation, including, but not
limited to, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-3), insulin-like growth factor-i (IGF-1),
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), EGF, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and other
factors. The growth factor content in various PRP products can vary between both patients and
the method of preparation.
[0155] In some embodiments, an autologous composition can contain platelets. Typically,
platelets can be prepared by separating platelets in blood from other blood components. In some
embodiments, platelets can be obtained from any of the methods or systems described herein. In
some embodiments, PRP can be separated or prepared from whole blood via centrifugation.
Centrifugation can be used to separate plasma and platelets, which can be retained, from red and
white blood cells, which can be discarded. In some embodiments, centrifugation parameters can
be designed to achieve plasma containing approximately 70 -100% of the platelets contained in
the original blood sample, and to avoid the collection of leukocytes, such as less than 5%, for
further processing. In some embodiments, concentrated platelets in blood plasma can be obtained
by apheresis or pheresis (centrifugal separation during the donor process while other components
are returned to the donor) or by selective removal from whole blood after gravity or centrifugal
sedimentation of blood cells.
[0156] Though PRP preparations contain growth factors, other molecular mediators are also
present, including cytokines, proteases and plasma proteins. Some of these mediators are
potentially pro-inflammatory or catabolic, and are thought to be derived from leukocytes.
Though all PRP preparations contain concentrated platelets, leukocytes and other blood derived
cells may also be present and contribute to the molecular profile of the PRP products.
[0157] The compositions described herein can include one or more anti-oxidants or free radical
scavengers to help minimize free radical damage and promote more rapid healing. When living
                                                     48

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
tissue uses oxygen at the cellular level, unstable molecules termed free radicals are generated.
Free radicals can include reactive oxygen species such as super-oxidants and hydrogen peroxide
(H202) and reactive nitrogen species such as nitric oxide and peroxynitrites. Free radicals are
unstable oxygen molecules that cause damage to cellular components such as DNA, proteins, or
lipids and can induce cell death. The body naturally generates free radicals, which are generally
neutralized in vivo by biochemical reactions. The concentration of free radicals is extremely high
in a wound bed due to damage to the cells in wounded tissue. Immune cells migrating into the
wound bed can induce inflammation and release more free radicals that do further damage to
nearby cells. Inflammation can be directly proportional to the amount of scarring that can occur.
[0158] The anti-oxidants provided in the compositions described herein can include, but not
limited to, vitamins such as vitamin C (ascorbic acid), vitamin E, vitamin A and other retinoids;
and the carotenes such as 13-carotene.
[0159] In addition to its anti-oxidant functions, ascorbic acid can stimulate and organize the
wound healing process due to its stimulatory effects on collagen production. Collagen can
provide strength and structure to skin, cartilage and bone, and is the scaffold upon which the
regenerated cellular and non-cellular elements of the wound can attach and grow. Ascorbic acid
is known to have preservative properties, unless it is broken down such as occurs after exposure
to sunlight or another source of ultraviolet (UV) light. Vitamin E is also known to break down
upon exposure to sunlight or UV light. As such, coverings can be used to shield the components
of the compositions from UV rays upon application.
[0160] The compositions described herein can also include one or more antiseptic, anti-infective,
antibiotic, bacteriocidal, anti-fungal, anti-microbial agent or another agent that sanitizes the
wound. Many wound sites are either already infected with bacteria or are susceptible to such
infection. As such it is desirable that the composition be capable of either killing bacteria or
preventing the mobility or the reproduction of bacteria already present in a wound. In an
embodiment the antiseptic agent includes, but is not limited to, cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC)
and other quaternary ammonium compounds or a combination thereof. In an embodiment, the
composition includes an agent that is bacteriocidal to at least the Pseudomonas and Klebsella
genera of bacteria. The agent can be effective against E. coli, species of Streptococcus, ShigeHa,
Salmonella and most species of Staphylococcus including S. aureus and MRSA as well. The
agent can include neosporin, vancomycin and gentamycin, and combinations thereof. The
compositions described herein can include one or more plant components or plant extracts
including, but not limited to, Aloe vera.
                                                  49

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
[0161] The compositions described herein can also include one or more growth factors,
cytokines or chemokines. In an embodiment, the growth factors for use can include PDGF,
platelet-derived angiogenesis factor (PDAF), VEGF, PDEGF, platelet factor 4 (PF-4),
transforming growth factor 13 (TGF-13), acidic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-A), basic
fibroblast growth factor (FGF-B), transforming growth factor a (TGF-A), insulin-like growth
factors 1 and 2 (IGF-1 and IGF-2), p thromboglobulin-related proteins (f3 TG), thrombospondin
(TSP), fibronectin, von Wallebrand factor (vWF), fibropeptide A, fibrinogen, albumin,
plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), osteonectin, regulated upon activation normal T cell
expressed and presumably secreted (RANTES), gro-a, vitronectin, fibrin D-dimer, factor V,
antithrombin ID, immunoglobulin-G (IgG), immunoglobulin-M (IgM), immunogiobulin-A
(IgA), a2-macroglobulin, angiogenin, Fg-D, elastase, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), EGF,
FGF, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), FGF and interleukin-1 (IL-1), KGF-2 and combinations
thereof. Each of these growth factors is known or believed to enhance cell or tissue growth.
Moreover, said substances, or various combinations thereof, are known or believed to function
together in an unexpected synergistic manner to promote wound healing. It should be
appreciated that the growth factors can be derived from activated platelets, cultured cells, or
from protein expression systems.
[0162] The compositions described herein can include concentrated platelets, or PRP as the
growth factor source. The platelets can be separated from the red blood cells and white blood
cells of whole blood, primarily through differential centrifugation, although any suitable method
for separating platelets from whole blood may be employed. Incidental amounts of white blood
cells can be present due to the fact that the platelets are rarely totally isolated from the other
blood components. In an embodiment, the range of the mean platelet volume of the platelets
being sequestered is in the range of about 6.6 to 8.4 femtoliters, with an average of about 7.7
femtoliters. In another embodiment, the range of the mean platelet volume of the platelets being
sequestered is in the range of about 250 x 1011 per cc blood or greater. In another embodiment,
the range of the mean platelet volume of the platelets being sequestered is in the range of about
450 x 1011 per cc blood. The concentrated platelets or PRP can be frozen or freeze-dried.
[0163] Some of the compositions described herein can include one or more biochemical platelet
activators or agonists including, but not limited to, thrombin, including native thrombin, calcified
thrombin, bovine thrombin (such as in Autologel ), autologous thrombin, allogeneic thrombin, or
recombinant human thrombin, tissue factor, von Willebrand factor, platelet factor 4, collagen,
thromboxane A2, serotonin, adenosine diphosphate (ADP), acetylcholine (ACH), or
combinations thereof to activate the platelets to release the contents of their stored granules into
                                                   50

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
the plasma. Activators and agonists can be mixed with the plasma-containing compositions
immediately prior to application to a patient.
[0164] In addition, the compositions described herein can include one or more activator co
factors including, but not limited to divalent cations such as calcium ions, sodium ions, calcium
salts in order to implement the clotting cascade and activate platelets to release the alpha
granules. Suitable calcium salts include, without limitation, CaCO 3, CaSO 4, CaCl 2, CaCl 2 which
can be available as calcium chloride injection, USP 10% (American Regent Laboratories, Inc.,
Shirley, N.Y., USA).
Systems for Production of Autologous A2M Compositions
[0165] Provided herein are systems that can be used with the methods and can be used to
produce any of the compositions. A system for enrichment of A2M from a sample is provided. A
system can have one or more filters, a centrifuge, a pump, or a combination thereof. A system
can have one or more waste, retentate, or filtrate (used synonymously with permeate) collection
modules.
[0166] One aspect of the invention is directed at a system for concentrating A2M from a fluid
sample, such as a biological sample. Typically, the fluid sample is blood derived from a subject,
such as a patient with a chronic wound, and the system concentrates the A2M from the blood
into a concentrated A2M blood serum or concentrated A2M blood plasma. The concentrated
sample can then be administered back to the same subject to treat the chronic wound.
[0167] The systems described herein offer a number of advantages, including low cost and
minimal parts. In some embodiments, the systems offer the advantage of not requiring the use of
a pump, such as to flow blood through the system. In some embodiments, the systems provide
control over the flow of fluids through the systems beyond that offered by the pump. There is
also a need for faster processing times for preparations of therapeutic autologous blood
compositions while maintaining sterility and/or minimizing foaming of the compositions so they
are suitable for injection into a subject. Furthermore, there is a need for preparing effective
therapeutic compositions for autologous treatment using smaller sample sizes to minimize the
amount of blood drawn from a subject. Importantly, there is also a need in the art for the
minimization of platelet activation and/or degranulation during preparation of autologous
therapeutic compositions, as platelet activation can lead to increased cytokine production and
protease activation, which can lead to degradation of extracellular matrix proteins, a known
cause of arthritis and other inflammatory diseases.
[0168] One advantage of the blood concentrating systems and methods described herein is that
they do not require the use of a pump. Another advantage is that an operator can manually
                                                  51

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
control the flow of fluids through the system through the use of injectors, such as syringes to
move fluids through the system and through the one or more filters, such as Hollow Fiber
Tangential Flow Filters (HFTFs) or polysulfone filters of the systems. Another advantage offered
is that platelet activation and degranulation is minimized. Because the biological samples
concentrated are circulated through the filters employed a minimal number of times, or not at all,
platelet activation and/or degranulation can be minimized. Additionally, because a pump is not
used in some embodiments, there is no crushing of tubing or chambers of the system by a pump
head, which can further minimize platelet activation and/or degranulation. Syringes can be used
to manually move a biological sample, such as plasma, back and forth through the one or more
filters of the systems. Yet another advantage offered is that therapeutic autologous compositions
suitable for injection into a subject can be generated in short amounts of time and from a
minimal sample volume from a subject. The "dead space" of the systems is minimized by
removing long tubing lines, bags, and the like. The systems are also amenable to using various
volumes of biological samples because injectors with varying volumes can be readily used with
the systems. Additionally, biological samples separated via centrifugation can be easily flowed
into the systems, and processed. The systems utilize a minimal number of components, which
minimizes cost as well. As the cost is minimized, the systems can also be made disposable.
Additionally, recovery of desired material can be increased using a manual system. Table 1
depicts data of recovery of various components from samples from various subjects using a
manual system.
[0169] Embodiments of the invention utilize minimal mechanization to concentrate and filter
blood for autologous therapy. These less mechanized systems offer the advantage of easy
handling, less dependency on mechanical and electrical components which may fail, and can be
ultimately less expensive. One embodiment of the invention, for example, uses the force of
gravity and/or pressure generated manually to accomplish concentration and filtration of a
biological sample through a filter, such as a membrane, and to further process filtrate or drain
waste filtrate. Gravity and manual manipulation of positive and negative pressure applied to the
system can effectuates processing of the biological sample and washing fluid through the
membrane for removing air and concentrating and filtering the biological sample.
[0170] By compartmentalization of the tangential flow filtration process, one can produce
systems that may greatly improve processing of blood, convert the system into a disposable
blood concentrator or be used for purification or isolation of certain components from biological
fluids or other fluids. Other processes and uses are also possible as will become apparent.
                                                  52

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
[0171] One aspect of the invention is directed at a system for concentrating A2M from a fluid
sample, such as a biological sample. Typically, the fluid sample is blood derived from a subject,
such as a patient with pain, and the system concentrates the A2M from the blood into a
concentrated A2M blood serum or concentrated A2M blood plasma. The concentrated sample
can then be administered back into the same subject to treat the pain
[0172] A system for purifying a blood component can comprise a filtration membrane. In some
embodiments, the filtration membrane can be formed as a flat, elongated, sheet having a first
surface and a second surface. The filtration membrane can have a preferred pore size to allow the
selected blood components to traverse the membrane. The pore size of the filtration membrane
can simultaneously prevent the passage of other blood components that exceed the size of the
selected blood components.
                                                53

WO 2015/031654                                                                                                          PCT/US2014/053223
                                                                              Table 1
     x'-                                                                              immn
                                                      4ae
                  $24        ci                     'i                                       -in-mc                                         C
                                                   >5,;
                                                             '-"       int                                   $    $2                     911'
           IN                                                                                               C1
         ?    N
             mc     mm4
                          4,    <cc
                                m    r
                                        mt-mm
                                                       -       ,em-C-*m-'-
                                                                                      n ),.        --
                                                                                                             c    --
                                                                                                                          mm
                                                                                                                        i'.~
                                                                                                                                m'   a
                                                                                                                                     ni       m c
                                                                                                                                          3
                                                    m-c       -m
                                                    mmC        -'Sn'                                               'mCm
                                 ... ....           .......                                        '
                                   YC(-      M  ''                           -"m      M--icc
                                                                                      xC-                   in-         e mi       m  c  m
               zSm-m----M              Rm           -m'--                    c.-imC             --   '        -2-         -cM         2       c
           242     4              4    2                                      m-      4       2    4?'A                        c-     "
                  m
                  cmc
                    -   r
                          4
                                       m!-                                   i-n
                                                                                    54
                                                                                     --      n!    i-i      cc    mm        '-  C'a  r      '
             $24  $4     k<     2>                  82         c-            22     24-      3               4$ 4424                 P    m      m
                                           'Sm-    "-N        cm-       in;!  c-in kmC
                                                                                     c-,   "-.     ctmC'-                      24    c
                                                                                                                                     la
                                                                                            IN         N                                          A
                                                                  -            -    <mm                     mm
                                                              mca              e      e4c              ccjc i'4   CM!
                                                                                                                                      cm
                                                                                                                                         < -    -Mt
              4                    4                .:2e22                                                                       .   -C
                                  -C
                                t-cc   2--                                          emm                m;a
                      mm-n               'c~m   ~'C        '         '                        ~
                                                                                           -"n-                                C54

 WO 2015/031654                                                                    PCT/US2014/053223
[0173] An exemplary embodiment of the systems comprises a filtration module comprising two
or more inlets and one or more filters. A volume of a biological sample flows into the filtration
module and through at least the inlet and one or more filters of the filtration module. The flow
may also pass through another inlet of the module after passing through the first inlet and one or
more filters. The one or more filters can be connected in series between the inlet and the outlet of
the filter module. The inlets can have selectively closed valves to control flow of the fluid
sample therein and the module may comprise multiple inlets or multiple outlets or any
combination thereof. The filtration module may be a dead-end filtration module. Preferably, the
filtration module may be a tangential flow filtration module.
[0174] In general, a biological sample, or separated components thereof, can be applied to the
retentate side of a filter, or two or more filters in series. A pressure gradient can be applied
across the filter wherein the pressure on the retentate side of the filter is greater than the pressure
on the filtrate side of the filter. The difference in pressure can force certain blood components
through the filter while other blood components, such as cells and high molecular weight
molecules, which do not fit through the filter pores, can be retained. A pressure gradient can be
provided by manually injecting fluid onto a retentate side of a filter. In one embodiment, a
pressure gradient can be generated by applying a lower pressure or a vacuum, to a filtrate side of
a filter. The filter of the invention can be a tangential flow filter, e.g., a hollow fiber filter. The
filter of the invention can be a polysulfone filter. In some embodiments, the filter of the
invention is not a polysulfone filter. The concentrator can have an ultrafiltration membrane with
a molecular weight cut off of 50-500. 100-500, 50, 100, or 500 kDa. A pressure gradient across
the membrane can be provided by a manual injector on the retentate side of the filter or from a
manual injector on the filtrate side of the filter.
[0175] In one aspect, a system can comprise a first filtration module for removing a first blood
component from a biological sample connected to a second filtration module for removing a
second blood component and/or retaining a third blood component from the biological sample
after processing through the first filtration module. The second filtration module can also be used
to remove a third blood component from the biological sample. In some embodiments, a system
can comprise a first filtration module comprising a first filter 30, a first channel 10 (first retentate
chamber), and a second channel 20 (first filtrate chamber). The first channel 10 and the second
channel 20 can be separated by a first filter 30, such as a membrane. The first channel 10 can
comprise a first inlet end 11 and a second inlet end 12. The first channel 10 can have any suitable
overall length. The first channel 10 can have a first suitable cross-sectional area measured at the
first inlet end 11. The first channel 10 can have a second suitable cross-sectional area measured
                                                    55

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
at the second inlet end 12. The first channel 10 can have a third suitable cross-sectional area
measured between the first inlet end 11 and the second inlet end 12. The second channel 20 (first
filtrate chamber) can receive blood components that flow within the first channel 10 (first
retentate chamber) through the first filter 30. The first filter can have a preferred pore size chosen
to allow the selected blood components, such as proteins, to traverse the membrane. The pore
size of the first filter 30 can prevent the passage of other blood components, such as cells, that
exceed the size of the selected blood components.
[0176] In some embodiments, a hollow fiber filter is used to separate the first channel 10 (first
retentate chamber) and the second channel 20 (first filtrate chamber). In a preferred embodiment,
the first filtrate chamber 20 can at least partially enclose the first retentate chamber 10. At least a
portion of the first retentate chamber 10 wall can be the first membrane portion 30. The first
filtrate chamber 20 can comprise an inner wall and an outer wall. At least a portion of the inner
wall can be the first membrane portion 30 of the first retentate chamber 10 wall. The first filtrate
chamber 20 outer wall can comprise an outer barrier impermeable to fluid. The first membrane
portion 30 can comprise a hollow fiber filter, which can comprise multiple hollow fibers that run
the length of the first channel 10 and/or second channel 20 in parallel. Hollow fibers can be
embedded at each end of the channels. The hollow fiber's lumens can be retained open and can
form a continuous passage through each of the lumens from one end of the channel to the other.
The hollow fibers can be enclosed by the outer wall of the channels in the filtration modules. As
a result, there can be a chamber bounded by the second channel 20 wall and the outer walls of
the hollow fibers. That chamber can be used as the first filtrate chamber 20. The internal spaces
of the hollow fibers can constitute part of the first retentate chamber 10 in the system described
herein. The outer walls of the channels can have one or more ports from which the filtrate can be
collected, flowed, and/or removed.
[0177] The first channel can be extended further than the internal spaces of the hollow fibers by
a first adaptor 41 and/or a second adaptor 42 that fit to the first inlet 11 and second inlet 12,
respectively, of the first channel 10. One or more adapters in conjunction with an inlet of the
channel can be part of the retentate chamber. One or more adapters in conjunction with an inlet
of the channel can be in fluid connection with the retentate chamber. Depending on the direction
of fluid flow through the fibers, the retentate channel can collect fluid as it exits the hollow fibers
Depending on the direction of fluid flow through the fibers, the retentate channel can allow fluid
arriving through an inlet to interface with the hollow fiber's open ends and distribute through the
fibers and flow towards the other end of the channel. Each adapter can comprise a first and a
second end. The first end can be fitted to the channel and the second end can comprise an
                                                    56

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
opening connectable to an injector, vessel, or a pump. In one embodiment, the injector can be
connected to the adapter via a line to allow for fluid flow. In one embodiment, the injector can be
connected directly to the adapter. In some embodiments, the adapter may form part of the
injector where part or the entire content of the injector may be contained within the adapter. The
adapter can be connected directly to a manual injector but, if desired, a pump may be connected
to the adaptor. When a connecting line is added to an adapter, the retentate chamber can include
the space inside the connecting line. When a connecting line is connected at one end to an
adapter and at its other end to a vessel, the interior of the vessel can be included as part of the
first retentate chamber 10.
[0178] A first injector 51 can be connected to the first inlet end 11 of the first channel 10,
optionally through an adaptor. A second injector 52 can be connected to the second inlet 12 of
the first channel 10, optionally through an adaptor. The first injector 51 and/or the second
injector 52 can hold, collect, or be used to inject fluid at various stages of the systems operation.
The first injector 51 can comprise a biological sample, such as blood. Activation of the first
injector 51 can cause the biological sample to flow through the first inlet 11, through the first
channel 10 and over the first membrane 30. The injected biological sample can flow through the
second inlet 12 into the second injector 52. Activation of the second injector 52 can cause the
biological sample to flow back through the second inlet 12, through the first channel 10 and over
the first membrane 30. The biological sample can flow back through the first inlet 11 and back
into the first injector 51. This process can be repeated until a sufficient amount of the filtered
blood sample has passed through the first filter 30 and into the second channel 20.
[0179] In some embodiments, the system comprises a first filtrate reservoir 75 connected to the
first filtrate chamber 20. Fluid can flow between the first filtrate reservoir 75 and the first filtrate
chamber 20. The reservoir can enclose the portion of the first filtrate chamber 20 that opens into
the first filtrate reservoir 75 (e.g., a port). In some embodiments, the system comprises a second
filtration module connected to the first filtrate reservoir 75. Flow of fluid from the first filtrate
chamber 20 to the filtrate reservoir 75 and flow of fluid between the filtrate reservoir 75 and the
second filtration module can be closed, open, or controlled through the use of a valve, such as a
stop cock.
[0180] The second channel 20 can have any suitable overall length. The second channel 20 can
have a cross-sectional area. The second channel 20 can have a port 70 connected thereto. The
port 70 can be optionally fluidly connected to a third inlet 71 of a third channel 72. The third
channel 72 can have any suitable overall length. The port 70 can be optionally fluidly connected
to a collection vessel 300. The collection vessel 300 can be the third injector 53 or the fourth
                                                     57

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
injector 54. The collection vessel 300 can be adapted to fit a first inlet end 11 and/or a second
inlet end 12. The collection vessel 300 can be adapted to fit a first adaptor 41 and/or a second
adaptor 42. The collection vessel 300 can be a syringe.
[0181] The third channel 72 can have a suitable cross-sectional area. In some embodiments, the
third channel can be arranged substantially perpendicular to the first channel 10, second channel
20, or both. The third channel 72 can comprise a first outlet 74 connected to a vessel 75 (e.g., a
filtrate reservoir). The third channel 72 can comprise a valve 76 situated between the first outlet
74 and third inlet 71 of the third channel. A fourth channel 80 can be connected to the valve 76
via a fourth inlet 81.
[0182] Blood components that flow from the first channel 10 through the first filter 30 into the
second channel 20 and through the port 70 can flow through the third inlet of the third channel
71, the third channel 72, and the first outlet of the third channel 74 into the vessel 75 when the
valve 76 is in a first open configuration. The fourth channel 80 can be in fluid connection with a
third injector 53. In some embodiments, when the valve 76 is in the first open configuration,
fluid is prevented from flowing into the fourth channel 80.
[0183] Blood components in the vessel 80 can flow through the third channel 72 and through the
fourth channel 80 when the valve 76 is in a second open configuration. In some embodiments,
this can be caused by activation of the third injector 53. The second open configuration can
prevent flow of blood components from the vessel 75 through a portion of the third channel 72
upstream of the valve 76.
[0184] The system can have a fifth channel 90 (second retentate chamber) and a sixth channel
100 (second filtrate chamber). The fourth channel 80 can be connected to a fifth channel 90. The
fifth channel can be connected to a third injector 53, such as through an adaptor 43. The fifth
channel 90 and the sixth channel 100 can be separated by a second filter 110, such as a
membrane. The fifth channel 90 can comprise a fifth inlet 13 and a sixth inlet 14.
[0185] A third injector 53 can be connected to the fifth inlet end 13, such as through an adaptor
43. A fourth injector 54 can be connected to the sixth inlet 14, such as through an adaptor 44.The
third injector 53 and/or fourth injector 54 can hold, collect, or be used to inject fluid at various
stages of the system's operation. The third injector 53 can comprise the filtered biological
sample from the vessel 75. Activation of the third injector 53 can cause the filtered biological
sample to flow through the fifth inlet 13, through the fifth channel 90 and over the second
membrane 110. The injected biological sample can flow through the sixth inlet 14 into the fourth
injector 54. Activation of the fourth injector 54 can cause the biological sample to flow back
through the sixth inlet 14, through the fifth channel 90 and over the second membrane 110. The
                                                   58

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
biological sample can flow back through the fifth inlet 13 and back into the third injector 53.
This process can be repeated until a sufficient amount of the filtered blood sample has passed
through the second filter 110 and into the sixth channel 100. This process can result in the
formation of a concentrated biological sample in the fifth channel 90. The concentrated
biological sample can be collected in the third injector 53 or the fourth injector 54.
[0186] The fifth channel 90 can have any suitable overall length. The fifth channel 90 can have a
first cross-sectional area measured at the fifth inlet 13. The fifth channel 90 can have a second
cross-sectional area measured at the sixth inlet 14. The fifth channel 90 can have a third cross
sectional area measured between the fifth inlet 13 and the sixth inlet 14. The sixth channel 100
can receive blood components that flow from the fifth channel 90 through the second filter 110.
The second filter 110 can have a preferred pore size chosen to prevent desired blood
components, such as high molecular weight proteins, to traverse the membrane. The pore size of
the second filter 110 can simultaneously allow the passage of other blood components, such as
smaller molecular weight proteins that do not exceed the size of the desired blood components
into the sixth channel 100.
[0187] The sixth channel 100 can have any suitable overall length. The sixth channel 100 can
have a suitable cross-sectional area. The sixth channel 100 can have a port 120 connected
thereto. The port 120 can be fluidly connected to a seventh inlet of a seventh channel 121. The
seventh channel 122 can have any suitable overall length. The seventh channel 122 can have a
suitable cross-sectional area. In some embodiments, the seventh channel can be arranged
substantially perpendicular to the fifth channel 90, sixth channel 100, or both. The seventh
channel 122 can comprise a second outlet 123 connected to a second vessel 124. Blood
components that flow from the fifth channel 90 through the second filter 110 into the sixth
channel 100 and through the second port 120 can flow through the seventh inlet of the seventh
channel 121, the seventh channel 122, and the outlet of the seventh channel 123 into the vessel
124. In some embodiments, the seventh vessel 124 is a waste collection vessel.
[0188] In a preferred embodiment, a hollow fiber filter is used to separate the fifth channel 90
(second retentate chamber) and the sixth channel 100 (second filtrate chamber). In a preferred
embodiment, the second filtrate chamber 100 can at least partially enclose the second retentate
chamber 90. At least a portion of the second retentate chamber 90 wall can be the second
membrane portion 110. The second filtrate chamber 100 can comprise an inner wall and an outer
wall. At least a portion of the inner wall can be the second membrane portion 100 of the second
filtrate chamber 90 wall. The second filtrate chamber 90 outer wall can comprise an outer barrier
impermeable to fluid. The second membrane 110 portion can comprise a hollow fiber filter,
                                                   59

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
which can comprise multiple hollow fibers that run the length of the fifth channel 90 and/or sixth
channel 100 in parallel. Hollow fibers can be embedded at each end of the channels. The hollow
fiber's lumens can be retained open and can form a continuous passage through each of the
lumens from one end of the channel to the other. The hollow fibers can be enclosed by the outer
wall of the channels in the filtration modules. As a result, there can be a chamber bounded by the
sixth channel 100 wall and the outer walls of the hollow fibers. That chamber can be used as the
second filtrate chamber 100. The internal spaces of the hollow fibers can constitute part of the
second retentate chamber 90 in the system described herein. The outer walls of the channels can
have one or more ports from which filtrate can be collected, flowed, and/or removed.
[0189] The fifth channel 90 can be extended further than the internal spaces of the hollow fibers
by a third adapter 43 and/or fourth adapter 44 that fit to the third inlet 13 and/or fourth inlet 14 of
the fifth channel 90, respectively. Each adapter in conjunction with an inlet of the channel can be
part of the second retentate chamber 90. Depending on the direction of fluid flow through the
fibers, the second retentate channel 90 can collect fluid as it exits the hollow fibers and/or allow
fluid arriving through an inlet to interface with the hollow fiber's open ends and distribute itself
among those hollow fibers for purposes of continuing its path towards the other end of the
channel. Each adapter can comprise a first and a second end. The first end can be fitted to the
channel 90 and the second end can comprise an opening connectable to an injector, vessel, or a
pump. In one embodiment, the injector can be connected to the adapter via a line to allow for
fluid flow but. In one embodiment, the injector can be connected directly to the adapter. In some
embodiments, the adapter may form part of the injector where part or the entire content of the
injector may be contained within the adapter. Normally the adapter is connected directly to a
manual injector but, if desired, a pump mat be connected to the adaptor. When a connecting line
is added to an adapter, the second retentate chamber 90 can include the space inside the
connecting line. When a connecting line is connected at one end to an adapter and at its other end
to a vessel, the interior of the vessel can be included as part of the second retentate chamber 90.
[0190] In some embodiments, a sample that flows through the first filter 30 can flow through
port 70 and into a collection vessel 300. The collection vessel 300 can be the third injector 53 or
the fourth injector 54. The collection vessel 300 can be adapted to fit a first inlet end 11 and/or a
second inlet end 12. The collection vessel 300 can be adapted to fit a first adaptor 41 and/or a
second adaptor 42. The collection vessel 300 can be a syringe. The collection vessel 300 can
then be removed from the port, such as after collecting the first filtrate, and the collection vessel
300 can be connected to the first inlet end 11 or a second inlet end 12. The collected sample can
then be flowed from the collection vessel 300 through the first inlet end 11 or a second inlet end
                                                   60

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
12 and into the first retentate chamber 10 and processed as described above. In such
embodiments, there is no need for the second filtrate chamber 100 and first retentate chamber 10
to be in fluid connection.
[0191] In another aspect, a system can comprise a centrifuge and a device for removing a first
blood component and/or retaining a second blood component from a portion of a biological
sample after centrifugation. In some embodiments, a system can comprise a first filtration
module for removing a first blood component from a portion of a centrifuged biological sample
connected to a second filtration module for removing a second blood component and/or retaining
a third blood component from a portion of a centrifuged biological sample after processing
through the first filtration module. The second filtration module can also be used to remove a
third blood component from a portion of a centrifuged biological sample. In some embodiments,
a system can comprise a first filtration module comprising a first filter 230, a first channel 210
(first retentate chamber), and a second channel 220 (first filtrate chamber). The first channel 210
and the second channel 220 can be separated by a first filter 230, such as a membrane. The first
channel 210 can comprise a first inlet end 211 and a second inlet end 212. The first channel 210
can have any suitable overall length. The first channel 210 can have a first suitable cross
sectional area measured at the first inlet end 211. The first channel 210 can have a second
suitable cross-sectional area measured at the second inlet end 212. The first channel 210 can
have a third suitable cross-sectional area measured between the first inlet end 211 and the second
inlet end 212. The second channel 220 (first filtrate chamber) can receive blood components that
flow within the first channel 210 (first retentate chamber) through the first filter 230. The first
filter can have a preferred pore size chosen to allow the selected blood components, such as
proteins, to traverse the membrane. The pore size of the first filter 230 can prevent the passage of
other blood components, such as cells, that exceed the size of the selected blood components.
[0192] In a preferred embodiment, a hollow fiber filter is used to separate the first channel 210
(first retentate chamber) and the second channel 220 (first filtrate chamber). In a preferred
embodiment, the first filtrate chamber 220 can at least partially enclose the first retentate
chamber 210. At least a portion of the first retentate chamber 210 wall can be the first membrane
portion 230. The first filtrate chamber 220 can comprise an inner wall and an outer wall. At least
a portion of the inner wall can be the first membrane portion 230 of the first retentate chamber
210 wall. The first filtrate chamber 220 outer wall can comprise an outer barrier impermeable to
fluid. The first membrane portion 230 can comprise a hollow fiber filter, which can comprise
multiple hollow fibers that run the length of the first channel 210 and/or second channel 220 in
parallel. Hollow fibers can be embedded at each end of the channels. The hollow fiber's lumens
                                                  61

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
can be retained open and can form a continuous passage through each of the lumens from one
end of the channel to the other. The hollow fibers can be enclosed by the outer wall of the
channels in the filtration modules. As a result, there can be a chamber bounded by the second
channel 220 wall and the outer walls of the hollow fibers. That chamber can be used as the first
filtrate chamber 220. The internal spaces of the hollow fibers can constitute part of the first
retentate chamber 210 in the system described herein. The outer walls of the channels can have
one or more ports from which the filtrate can be collected, flowed, and/or removed.
[0193] The first channel can be extended further than the internal spaces of the hollow fibers by
a first adaptor 241 and/or a second adaptor 242 that fit to the first inlet 211 and second inlet 212
respectively of the first channel 210. Each adapter in conjunction with an inlet of the channel can
be part of the retentate chamber. Depending on the direction of fluid flow through the fibers, the
retentate channel can collect fluid as it exits the hollow fibers and/or allow fluid arriving through
an inlet to interface with the hollow fiber's open ends and distribute itself among those hollow
fibers for purposes of continuing its path towards the other end of the channel. Each adapter can
comprise a first and a second end. The first end can be fitted to the channel and the second end
can comprise an opening connectable to an injector, vessel, or a pump. In one embodiment, the
injector can be connected to the adapter via a line to allow for fluid flow but. In one
embodiment, the injector can be connected directly to the adapter. In some embodiments, the
adapter may form part of the injector where part or the entire content of the injector may be
contained within the adapter. Normally the adapter is connected directly to a manual injector but,
if desired, a pump mat be connected to the adaptor. When a connecting line is added to an
adapter, the retentate chamber can include the space inside the connecting line. When a
connecting line is connected at one end to an adapter and at its other end to a vessel, the interior
of the vessel can be included as part of the first retentate chamber 210.
[0194] A first injector 251 can be connected to the first inlet end 211 of the first channel 210,
optionally through an adaptor. A second injector 252 can be connected to the second inlet 212 of
the first channel 210, optionally through an adaptor. The first injector 251 and/or the second
injector 252 can hold, collect, or be used to inject fluid at various stages of the systems
operation. The first injector 251 can comprise a biological sample, such as blood. Activation of
the first injector 251 can cause the biological sample to flow through the first inlet 211, through
the first channel 210 and over the first membrane 230. The injected biological sample can flow
through the second inlet 212 into the second injector 252. Activation of the second injector 252
can cause the biological sample to flow back through the second inlet 212, through the first
channel 210 and over the first membrane 230. The biological sample can flow back through the
                                                   62

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
first inlet 211 and back into the first injector 251. This process can be repeated until a sufficient
amount of the filtered blood sample has passed through the first filter 230 and into the second
channel 220.
[0195] In some embodiments, the system comprises a first filtrate reservoir 275 connected to the
first filtrate chamber 220. Fluid can flow between the first filtrate reservoir 275 and the first
filtrate chamber 220. The reservoir can enclose the portion of the first filtrate chamber 220 that
opens into the first filtrate reservoir 275 (e.g., a port). In some embodiments, the system
comprises a second filtration module connected to the first filtrate reservoir 275. Flow of fluid
from the first filtrate chamber 220 to the filtrate reservoir 275 and flow of fluid between the
filtrate reservoir 275 and the second filtration module can be closed, open, or controlled through
the use of a valve, such as a stop cock.
[0196] The second channel 220 can have any suitable overall length. The second channel 220
can have a cross-sectional area. The second channel 220 can have a port 270 connected thereto.
The port 270 can be fluidly connected to a third inlet 271 of a third channel 272. The third
channel 272 can have any suitable overall length. The third channel 272 can have a suitable
cross-sectional area. In some embodiments, the third channel can be arranged substantially
perpendicular to the first channel 210, second channel 220, or both. The third channel 272 can
comprise a first outlet 274 connected to a vessel 275 (e.g., a filtrate reservoir).
[0197] Blood components that flow from the first channel 210 through the first filter 230 into the
second channel 220 and through the port 270 can flow through the third inlet of the third channel
271, the third channel 272, and the first outlet of the third channel 274 into the vessel 275 when
the system is in use. In some embodiments, the vessel 275 is a waste collection vessel
[0198] Any of the injectors described herein can be used for injecting a biological sample into
the systems described herein. Any of the injectors described herein can be used to apply pressure
to the systems described herein and to cause fluid to flow through the system. Any of the
injectors described herein can be manually operated. Exemplary injectors include syringes. Any
of the injectors described herein can also function as sample collection modules as the sample
passes through various stages of the systems.
[0199] In some embodiments, a system can comprise one or more Luer-lock adapters. In some
embodiments a Luer lock adapter can be capped or closed. In some embodiments, a system can
comprise one or more dead-end filters. In some embodiments, one or more of the inlets can be
closed or sealed.
[0200] In some embodiments, the sample can be processed through the system manually. For
example, a sample can be processed through the system without the use of a pump. In some
                                                     63

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
embodiments, the sample can be processed through the system by pushing or pulling the sample
through the system using a pressure generating device, such as a syringe. Injectors can also be
used as flow control devices to control the flow of the biological sample through one or more
portions of the systems described herein. In some embodiments, other suitable flow control
devices include actuators, clamps, ball valves, diaphragm valves, needle valves, and pumps.
Flow control devices can be variable flow, i.e., capable of providing varying flow rates, and
binary on/off that open to permit flow and close to block flow. Suitable pumps include, but are
not limited to, vane pumps, tubing pumps, rotary pumps, and diaphragm pumps, and may be
chosen based upon, for example, the desired flow rate.
[0201] In any of the systems described herein, a filtration membrane is positioned between, and
separates, a retentate chamber and a filtrate chamber. Many configurations are possible for the
retentate chamber and the filtrate chamber. For example the retentate chamber and the filtrate
chamber can be configured in a side-by-side relationship. Alternatively, the retentate chamber
and filtrate chamber can be configured to be coaxially disposed with either the retentate chamber
or filtrate chamber positioned inside of the other. Any configuration of the retentate chamber and
filtrate chamber that forces the biological sample to flow tangentially over opposite sides of a
filtration membrane can be adapted for use in the present invention.
[0202] Changing pressure gradients and both axial flow and perpendicular flow to the membrane
surface occur in the alternating tangential flow process. Upon activation of the injector on one
side of the retentate chamber, the pressure in the injector is greater than the pressure in the
retentate chamber. The retentate flows forward from the injector, i.e., through the retentate
chamber and over the filter element. Also, some of the liquid is forced across the filter
membrane into the filtrate chamber. When the filtrate chamber is enclosed, the entry of filtrate
can pressurize the filtrate chamber. Conversely, upon activation of the injector on the opposite
side of the retentate chamber, the pressure in the injector is greater than the pressure in the
retentate chamber, so that sample flows in reverse, from the injector on one side of the retentate
chamber to the injector on the other side of the retentate chamber. This reversal in flow
maintains the membrane and inhibits clogging. This effect is further enhanced by another kind of
transmembrane flow, one which forms when the resistance to axial flow inside the hollow fiber,
or lumen side, is greater than in the external, shell, side of the hollow fiber. Therefore, during the
flow of the sample onto the filter, pressurized sample is forced into the hollow fibers and will
take the path of least resistance and the sample will not only flow through the lumens, but also
across the membrane, into the filtrate chamber. An axial pressure gradient forms on both sides of
the filter causing fluid flow towards the exit end of the filter. As a result, the sample flow has the
                                                  64

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
capacity to exchange fluids from the retentate chamber to the filtrate chamber. Such exchange
can be highly beneficial for processing biological samples for generation of the composition
described herein.
[0203] Another aspect of the invention reduces, eliminates, or substantially eliminates the
introduction of air and/or generation of foam in the compositions produced using the methods or
systems described herein.
[0204] Some of the key features of the system can utilize a fluid, such as sterile saline, to load
the filter and purge air out of the systems and their various components before introduction and
processing of the biological sample. This purging step can substantially eliminate introduction of
air or bubbles (foaming) into the biological sample during the filtration and concentration
process. Thus, the systems and methods are amenable to generate therapeutic compositions that
can be readily administered into the blood stream of a subject.
[0205] In some embodiments, a pressure differential across a filter is not achieved by a vacuum
applied to the system. In some embodiments, a system does not comprise a stopcock. In some
embodiments, a system does not comprise an adaptor to an injector with a Luer lock fitting.
[0206] In some embodiments, the systems do not produce a composition comprising fibrinogen
or concentrated fibrinogen. In some embodiments, a composition does not comprise fibrinogen
or concentrated fibrinogen, such as at least about 1.1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 fold concentrated
fibrinogen. In some embodiments, a composition comprises concentrated fibrinogen at most
about 1.1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 fold concentrated fibrinogen. In some embodiments, the
systems do not produce a composition comprising clotting factors or concentrated clotting
factors such as Factor V and Factor X, and other undesired constituents, such as growth factors.
In some embodiments, a composition does not comprise clotting factors or concentrated clotting
factors such as Factor V and Factor X, and other undesired constituents, such as growth factors.
Injectors
[0207] Any of the injectors described herein can be used for injecting a biological sample into
the systems described herein. Any of the injectors described herein can be used to apply pressure
to the systems described herein and to cause fluid to flow through the system. Any of the
injectors described herein can be manually operated. Exemplary injectors include syringes. Any
of the injectors described herein can also function as sample collection modules as the sample
passes through various stages of the systems.
[0208] According to one embodiment, the injector comprises a syringe. A typical syringe
comprises a generally cylindrical barrel having opposed proximal and distal ends with at least
one chamber formed between the ends for receiving a substance such as a biological sample. A
                                                   65

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
plunger is typically sealably disposed within the barrel and movable with respect thereto, and
sealing means may be sealably disposed approximate to the distal end of the barrel. A syringe
can include an elongate barrel or cylinder having an open, proximal end and a distal end with at
least one hollow chamber formed between the proximal and distal ends for receiving a biological
sample. A plunger may be situated at the open, proximal end. A plunger can be moved by means
of a plunger rod, which can be secured to the plunger, for example, by screwing or gluing. At the
same end where the plunger is situated, the barrel may have a finger grip, which is secured to the
barrel. A finger grip preferably consists of slightly resilient material, for example plastics. In
another embodiment, the finger grip is a flange-like part of the barrel projecting radially
outwards. Of course, other constructions known to those skilled in the art are possible. A stopper,
which closes the barrel, may be situated in the end of the barrel remote from the plunger. The
plunger and the stopper are preferably manufactured from an elastic material and, most
preferably, from rubber of a pharmaceutical quality.
[0209] In preferred embodiments, an injection needle is not secured to the barrel. In further
embodiments, the syringe is not stored with a needle in position, e.g., a needleless syringe.
Although the syringe barrel can include a locking Luer-type collar, it is within the purview of the
present invention to include syringe barrels without a collar, syringe barrels having an
eccentrically positioned nozzle and various other nozzle-like structures. It is only required that
there is an aperture on the distal end of the syringe barrel in fluid communication with the
interior of the syringe barrel.
 Vessels
[0210] Any of the reservoirs described herein can be any suitable vessel. Suitable vessels include
any collection device including, but not limited to, tubes such as test tubes and centrifuge tubes;
closed system blood collection devices, such as collection bags; syringes, catheters, such as
central lines; microtiter and other multi-well plates; arrays; tubing; laboratory vessels such as
flasks, spinner flasks, roller bottles, vials, microscope slides, microscope slide assemblies,
coverslips, films and porous substrates and assemblies; pipettes and pipette tips, etc.; tissue and
other biological sample collection containers; and any other container suitable for holding a
biological sample, as well as containers and elements involved in transferring samples. In one
aspect of the invention, a sample collection tube having a separating member (e.g., a mechanical
separating element, a gel or a filter mechanism) for separating blood components is used. The
vessel may also comprise a collection bag suitable for holding a biological sample such as, for
example, a blood collecting bag, a blood plasma bag, a buffy coat bag, a platelet bag or the like.
                                                    66

 WO 2015/031654                                                                    PCT/US2014/053223
[0211] Plastic or glass can be used to manufacture the reservoirs and vessels used in the present
invention. Some preferred materials used to manufacture the vessels include polypropylene,
polyethylene, polyethyleneterephthalate, polystyrene, polycarbonate and cellulosics. More
expensive plastics such as polytetrafluoroethylene and other fluorinated polymers may also be
used. In addition to the materials mentioned above, examples of other suitable materials for the
vessels used in the present invention include polyolefins, polyamides, polyesters, silicones,
polyurethanes, epoxies, acrylics, polyacrylates, polysulfones, polymethacrylates, PEEK,
polyimide and fluoropolymers such as PTFE Teflon@, FEP Teflon, Tefzel@, poly(vinylidene
fluoride), PVDF and perfluoroalkoxy resins. Glass products including silica glass are also used
to manufacture the vessels. One exemplary glass product is PYREX (available from Coming
Glass, Coming, New York). Ceramic collection devices can be used according to embodiments
of the invention. Cellulosic products such as paper and reinforced paper containers can also be
used to form vessels according to the invention.
Filters/membranes
[0212] TFF is a filtration process whereby the solution is constantly flowing over the membrane
to prevent pores from becoming clogged by cells and proteins. As used in the systems and
methods described herein, TFF can discourage unwanted particles, cells and/or other large
proteins from blocking the membrane pores and allowing the flow of small molecules and
proteins. The use of hollow fiber membranes can increase the surface area that is available for
filtration. The 50, 100, or 500 kDa molecular weight cutoff of the membrane permits small
molecules and proteins such as cytokines, chemokines, and proteases to pass through, eventually
leading to waste, but retaining larger particles (>50, 100, or 500 kDa) such as platelets.
[0213] In some embodiments the one or more filters of the filtration module(s) comprise at least
a first and a second filter. The first filter screens out cells, particles, and other molecules larger
than 1 or 2 microns. The second filter screens out molecules having a weight less than about 50,
 100, or 500 kDa. The second filter may also retain molecules having a weight of more than about
50, 100, or 500 kDa. In some embodiments the first and the second filters comprise cross-flow
filters, such as hollow fiber filters.
[0214] Some embodiments of the invention further comprise a pump adapted to be fluidly
coupled with the filtration module either upstream of the inlet of the filtration module or
downstream of the outlet of the filtration module. The pump is further adapted to produce a flow
of the fluid sample that passes through the one or more filters of the filter module. In some
embodiments of the invention, the filter module further comprises at least one reservoir.
                                                     67

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
[0215] In an exemplary embodiment of the invention wherein the first filter comprises a cross
flow filter that screens out cells particles and other molecules lager than 1 or 2 microns. A
retentate of this filter containing the cells, particles, and other molecules larger than 1 or 2
microns of the fluid sample is stored in a first retentate reservoir. Alternatively, the retentate of
the first filter is discarded. A filtrate of the first filter is directed to a first filtrate reservoir, the
first filtrate reservoir is then typically connected to the second filter. The filtrate of the first filter
flows through the second filter. The second filter may typically be a cross flow filter adapted to
retain molecules of weight more than about 50, 100, or 500 kDa. A retentate of the second filter
comprises these molecules of weight more than about 50, 100, or 500 kDa may be retained in the
first filtrate collection reservoir. The retentate of the second filter typically comprises the
concentrated A2M of the fluid sample. A filtrate of the second filter can be directed to a separate
second filter filtrate reservoir. Alternatively, the filtrate of the second reservoir may be redirected
through the outlet of the filtration module and circulated back to the inlet of the filtration module
such that the fluid sample is processed by the filtration module multiple times or continuously.
[0216] In some embodiments a system further comprises a centrifuge. A fluid sample can be
centrifuged to produce a supernatant and a pellet, the supernatant containing small molecules and
A2M but not large particles such as cells. The pellet contains the large particles such as cells
present in the fluid sample. The supernatant can then be directed through a filtration module. The
filtration module can comprise at least one filter adapted to retain molecules of weight more than
about 50, 100, or 500 kDa. The at least one filter typically can comprise a 50, 100, or 500 kDa
cross flow filter as describe above. The retentate of the 50, 100, or 500 kDa cross flow filter
comprising the A2M of the supernatant can be retained in a retentate reservoir. The filtrate of the
at least one filter can be directed to a waste reservoir or discarded. Alternatively, the filtrate of
the at least one filter may be directed to the filter module outlet where can be redirected to the
filter module inlet such that the supernatant of the fluid sample passes through the filter module
on or more times.
[0217] A system can comprise a filtration module. The filtration module can comprise an inlet,
an outlet and one or more filters fluidly connected in series between the inlet and the outlet. The
filtration module can be enclosed in a housing, such as a column or jacket. A method employing
a system can comprise removing cells from a sample. The method can further comprise manually
pushing the fluid sample through the filtration module inlet and the one or more filters to
produce a concentrated A2M serum or plasma. The fluid sample may also be manually pushed
through the outlet. Pushing the fluid sample can be accomplished via use of an injector, such as a
syringe, fluidly connected to the filtration module upstream of the inlet and/or downstream of the
                                                       68

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
outlet. The one or more filters of the filtration module can comprise at least one 50, 100, or 500
kDa filter configured to retain molecules with a weight more than about 50, 100, or 500 kDa.
[0218] In some embodiments, removing cells from the fluid sample can comprise providing a
centrifuge, centrifuging the fluid sample, and obtaining a resultant supernatant of the fluid
sample. A resultant pellet of the fluid sample comprising cells and large molecules may be
retained. The resultant supernatant of the fluid sample typically comprises A2M and small
molecules but not cells and large molecules. The supernatant of the fluid sample can then be
manually flowed through the filtration module to concentrate the A2M. The 50, 100, or 500 kDa
filter of the filtration module can be a 50, 100, or 500 kDa cross-flow filter; a retentate of the 50,
 100, or 500 kDa cross-flow filter can be retained and can comprise a concentrated A2M serum.
[0219] In some embodiments, removing cells from the fluid sample comprises filtering the fluid
sample with a first filter of the filtration module adapted to screen out cells, particles, and
molecules larger than at least about 1 or 2 microns, for example, at least about 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
or 10 microns. The first filter can be a cross-flow filter and a filtrate of the first filter can be
directed to the at least one 50, 100, or 500 kDa filter of the filtration module. The filtrate of the
first filter may be stored in a first filtrate reservoir. The 500 kDa filter of the filtration module
can be a 50, 100, or 500 kDa cross-flow filter; a retentate of the 500 kDa cross-flow filter can be
retained in the first filtrate reservoir and can comprise the concentrated A2M serum. A filtrate of
the 50, 100, or 500 kDa cross flow filter may be stored, discarded, or directed to the inlet of the
filtration module such that it can be further filtered.
[0220] A system can comprise one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most
about 5 kDa, 10 kDa, 15 kDa, 20 kDa, 25 kDa, 30 kDa, 35 kDa, 40 kDa, 45 kDa, 50 kDa, 55
kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70 kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 90 kDa, 100 kDa, 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa,
 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 160 kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200 kDa, 210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa,
240 kDa, 250 kDa, 260 kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300 kDa, 310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa,
340 kDa, 350 kDa, 360 kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400 kDa, 410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa,
440 kDa, 450 kDa, 460 kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa or lower to obtain one or more filtrates
and retentates, such as an A2M enriched retentate or A2M concentrated retentate.
[0221] A system can comprise one or more filters with a pore size of at most about 0.6pm,
0.7m, 0.8pm, 0.9pm, 1pm, 2pm, 3pm, 4pm, 5pm, 6pm, 7pm, 8pm, 9pm, or 10pm, for
example, to remove or collect cells and/or particles.
[0222] It should be understood that features of the above described method and system
embodiments may be combined and interchanged with one another.
                                                     69

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
[0223] Cells and particles with a size of 0.6pm or more, and other molecules with a molecular
weight of 50, 100, or 500 kDa or less can be removed from the sample by flowing or passing a
sample through one or more filters contained within the system in sequence. Removed cells and
particles can be disposed of or collected in a waste module. For example, cells and particles of
0.6pm, 0.7pm, 0.8pm, 0.9pm, 1pm, 2pm, or 3pm or more, and other molecules with a molecular
weight of 5 kDa, 10 kDa, 15 kDa, 20 kDa, 25 kDa, 30 kDa, 35 kDa, 40 kDa, 45 kDa, 50 kDa, 55
kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70 kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 90 kDa, 100 kDa, 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa,
 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 160 kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200 kDa, 210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa,
240 kDa, 250 kDa, 260 kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300 kDa, 310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa,
340 kDa, 350 kDa, 360 kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400 kDa, 410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa,
440 kDa, 450 kDa, 460 kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa, or less can be removed by the one or
more filters of the systems and can be further processed or deposited into one or more waste
modules. A sample can be flowed through one or more filters by applying a pressure manually,
such as by pushing and or pulling an injector of the system. In some embodiments, a sample can
be flowed through one or more filters by applying centrifugal force using a centrifuge of the
system, using a pump of the system, or a combination thereof A system can further comprise a
collection module or reservoir. A retentate or filtrate can be collected or isolated in the collection
module, for example a retentate with an A2M enriched sample can be isolated in a collection
module, after passing a sample through one or more filters. A system can further comprise a
sample loading module. A sample loading module can be operable to introduce the sample into
the system. A sample loading module can be directly or indirectly attached to the blood stream of
a subject.
[0224] The first step in the system can be either a centrifugation step or filtration step. The
collected blood can be centrifuged at a particular centrifugal force that allows the precipitation of
the red blood cells and white blood cells and other particles and debris, allowing plasma proteins
and platelets in the supernatant. This process can also be achieved by filtration using a hollow
fiber membrane that will allow the plasma proteins and platelets to go through the membrane
into the filtrate and prevent the red blood cells and white blood cells and other particles and
debris to remain in the retentate. In some embodiments, the supernatant from the centrifugation
step or the filtrate from the filtration step can be filtered on the second filter where proteins 50,
 100, or 500 kDa or larger can be retained by the filter and smaller proteins than 50, 100, or 500
kDa and other molecules can pass through the membrane into the filtrate. The concentrated
retentate can then be collected and injected into the patient.
                                                    70

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
[0225] In some embodiments, a collection receptacle with platelets and plasma can be connected
to any of the systems described herein, such as with hematologic tubing, and manually passed
through a filter, such as hollow fiber tangential flow filter (HFTFF), that uses a molecular weight
cutoff membrane, such as a 50, 100, or 500 kDa molecular weight cutoff membrane, of modified
polyethersulfone. In some embodiments, a pump, such as a peristaltic pump, can be used. In
some embodiments, the flow-through port of the filter can be connected using hematologic
tubing back to the collection bottle in a closed-loop. In some embodiments, the filtrate port of the
filter can also be connected using tubing connected to waste. In some embodiments, no priming
of the flow-circuit is necessary. In preferred embodiments, priming of the flow-circuit is
accomplished by flowing a fluid through the system to remove air from the system. In some
embodiments, priming of a system substantially prevents foaming of the compositions
administered therapeutically, such as to a joint.
[0226] As a non-limiting example, a system, such as an APIC system (Autologous Platelet
Integrated Concentrate system) can be run until the plasma reaches between 2-10 times the
concentrations as found in whole blood. For example, a system can be run until the plasma
reaches between 2-10, 1-9, 2-8, 2-7, 2-6, 2-5, 2-4, 2-3, 3-10, 1-9, 3-8, 3-7, 3-6, 3-5, 3-4, 4-10, 1
9, 4-8, 4-7, 4-6, 4-5, 5-10, 1-9, 5-8, 5-7, 5-6, 6-10, 1-9, 6-8, 6-7, 7-10, 7-9, 7-8, 8-10, 8-9, or 9-10
times the concentrations as found in whole blood. In some embodiments, the starting volume of
the biological sample injected in to the systems described herein can be from about 10mL to
about 1OOmL. For example, the starting volume of the biological sample injected in to the
systems described herein can be from about 10-90 mL, 10-80 mL, 10-70 mL, 10-60 mL, 10-50
mL, 10-40 mL, 10-30 mL, 10-20 mL, 20-100 mL, 20-90 mL, 20-80 mL, 20-70 mL, 20-60 mL,
20-50 mL, 20-40 mL, 20-30 mL, 30-100 mL, 30-90 mL, 30-80 mL, 30-70 mL, 30-60 mL, 30-50
mL, 30-40 mL, 40-100 mL, 40-90 mL, 40-80 mL, 40-70 mL, 40-60 mL, 40-50 mL, 50-100 mL,
50-90 mL, 50-80 mL, 50-70 mL, 50-60 mL, 60-100 mL, 60-90 mL, 60-80 mL, 60-70 mL, 70
 100 mL, 70-90 mL, 70-80 mL, 80-100 mL, 80-90 mL, or 90-100 mL. In some embodiments, this
process or a similar process can be performed in approximately 1 to 5 minutes, 2 to 5 minutes, 3
to 6 minutes, 4 to 5 minutes, 5 to 10 minutes, 6 to 10 minutes, 7 to 10 minutes, 8 to 10 minutes, 9
to 10 minutes, 10 to 15 minutes, 15 to 20 minutes, 10 to 30 minutes, 15 to 35 minutes, 20 to 40
minutes, or 30 to 45 minutes. The waste volume, containing low molecular weight proteins,
including potentially pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteases, can be discarded. The resulting
autologous platelet concentrate can be drawn into a syringe and provided for mixing as needed
for clinical administration, such as to a chronic wound.
Channels and Modules
                                                   71

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
[0227] The channels and modules and housings described herein can be made of any suitable
material. Suitable materials include both liquid permeable and non-permeable materials, such as
polyolefins, polyamides, polyesters, silicones, polyurethanes, epoxies, acrylics, polyacrylates,
polysulfones, polymethacrylates, PEEK, polyimide and fluoropolymers such as PTFE Teflon@,
FEP Teflon@, Tefzel@, poly(vinylidene fluoride), PVDF and perfluoroalkoxy resins. Glass
products including silica glass can be used. Ceramic can be used according to embodiments of
the invention. Cellulosic products such as paper and reinforced paper containers can also be used
to form channels and modules according to the invention.
[0228] The size of the various modules and channels can be suitable for holding the volumes of
samples described above. For example, the channels and modules can be from about 2-2000cm,
2-1000cm, 2-500cm, 2-100cm, 2-50cm, 2-25cm, 2-10cm, 2-5cm, 2-4cm, 2-3cm in length. For
example, the channels and modules can be from about 0.1-200cm, 0.1-100cm, 0.1-50cm, 0.1
 10cm, 0.1-5cm, 0.1-2.5cm, 0.1-1cm, 0.1-0.5cm, 0.1-0.4cm, 0.1-0.3cm, or 0.1-0.2cm in width.
For example, the channels and modules can have a diameter of from about 0.1-200cm, 0.1
 100cm, 0.1-50cm, 0.1-10cm, 0.1-5cm, 0.1-2.5cm, 0.1-1cm, 0.1-0.5cm, 0.1-0.4cm, 0.1-0.3cm, or
0.1-0.2cm.
[0229] Some embodiments of the invention further comprise a pump adapted to be fluidly
coupled with the filtration module either upstream of the inlet of the filtration module or
downstream of the outlet of the filtration module. The pump is further adapted to produce a flow
of the fluid sample that passes through the one or more filters of the filter module. In some
embodiments of the invention, the filter module further comprises at least one reservoir
[0230] A particular embodiment of the filtration module is well suited to receive a supernatant
2409 of a fluid sample such as blood (not shown) that has been centrifuged (FIG. 34). The filter
module 2401 has a first filter 2410 coupled to the filter module inlet 2402. The supernatant is
2409 received and pumped from a receiving reservoir 2405 into the first filter. The first filter
2410 is typically a cross-flow filter configured to retain molecules larger than about 5OOkDa in a
retentate reservoir 2406. The retentate reservoir 2406 may also be the same as the receiving
reservoir 2405 for receiving the supernatant 2409 of the fluid sample. The permeate 2420 of the
first filter 2410 containing molecules smaller than about 500kDa is directed to a permeate
reservoir 2430 which may be a waste bag 2431. A2M is concentrated in this retentate reservoir
2406. A filter module outlet 2450 maybe coupled to the retentate reservoir 2406 such that the
concentrated A2M 2460 may be extracted from the retentate reservoir 2406 or pumped back
through the first filter 2410.
                                                  72

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0231] An embodiment of the system for concentrating A2M is shown in FIGs. 35-37. A blood
bag 2801 is shown containing the fluid sample 2802, which typically comprises blood. (FIG.
37).The fluid sample 2802 is extracted via syringe(s) 2803 and centrifuged with centrifuge 2804.
The resultant supernatant 2805 containing A2M and other small molecules but not cells or large
molecules is then directed to the filtration module 3209, where in the A2M is concentrated in to
a serum 2810 or a plasma 2811 with at least one filter 2808 selected to retain molecules of larger
in size than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa. The filtration module 3209 may be similar to the
examples described herein.
[0232] An embodiment of the system for concentrating A2M is shown in (FIG. 39). A blood bag
3201 is shown containing the fluid sample 3202. The fluid sample 3202 is pumped via pump
3203 to the first filter 3210 of the filtration module 3204. The first filter 3210 shown here is a
cross-flow filter configured to screen out cells, particles, and other molecules larger than 1
micron. The permeate 3212 of the first filter comprising components of the fluid sample smaller
than 1 micron is directed to a first permeate reservoir 3215. The retentate 3216 of the first filter
is directed to a first retentate reservoir 3216, in this particular embodiment the first retentate
reservoir is also blood bag 3201. The permeate 3212 of the first filter is then directed via pump
3203 to the second filter 3220. The second filter is typically a cross-flow filter configured to
retain molecules of weight more than about 500kDa. Molecules of weight more than about 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa are retained as a second retentate 3223 in a second retentate reservoir 3225.
The second retentate reservoir 3225 may be the same as the first permeate reservoir 3215.
Permeate of the second filter 3224 is typically directed to a second permeate reservoir 3226 in
some embodiments the second permeate reservoir 3226 is a waste bag 3230. The retentate of the
second filter 3223 comprises the concentrated A2M. The pump 3203 may be fluidly connected to
the filtration module up stream of the filtration module inlet 3206 or down-stream of the
filtration module outlet 3207 or in-between inlet the filtration module 3206 and the filtration
module outlet 3207 or any combination thereof. The second retentate reservoir 3225 has an
access port 3229 for directing flow of the concentrated A2M (which is also the retentate of the
second filter) back to the pump. Such port may be used to access the concentrated A2M, or the
permeate of the first filter, or the retentate of the second filter for subsequent processing or
harvesting of the concentrated A2M.
Methods of A2M Enrichment and Preparation of Autologous Compositions
                                                     73

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
[0233] Methods of enrichment of A2M from a subject are provided herein. The methods can be
used to produce any of the autologous compositions. The systems can be used with any of the
methods described herein.
[0234] A method for enrichment of A2M from a biological sample, such as a mammalian
biological sample, can comprise flowing or passing a biological sample through one or more
filters or membranes, such as one or more hollow fiber filters and/or membranes with a
particular pore size. Flowing or passing a sample through one or more filters can comprise
flowing the sample through 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more filters. A sample can be separated
into one or more filtrates and one or more retentates, for example a first filtrate and a first
retentate. For example, a sample can be separated into 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more filtrates
and 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more retentates upon flowing or passing the sample through one
or more filters. For example, a sample can be separated into 2 or more filtrates and 2 or more
retentates upon flowing or passing the sample through two or more filters. An A2M enriched
sample can be a first, second, third, fourth, fifth, or more retentate upon flowing or passing a
biological sample through one or more filters. One or more A2M enriched samples or retentates
can be diluted, such as with a diluent. A diluent can be a liquid or a solution, such as a
hypotonic, hypertonic, or isotonic solution. For example, a diluent can be a WFI solution or a
saline solution.
[0235] A method for enrichment of A2M from a biological sample, such as a mammalian
biological sample can comprise separating cells from a cellular biological sample, such as blood.
In some embodiments, red blood cells can be separated from white blood cells and platelets by
performing one or more centrifugation steps or by flowing a sample through a filter. White blood
cells can be separated from platelets by performing one or more centrifugation steps. One or
more centrifugation cycles can be used or applied to provide centrifugal force to flow or push a
biological sample through one or more filters. Gravitational, centrifugal or mechanical force can
also be used or applied to provide force to flow or push a biological by flowing a sample through
one or more filters. Mechanical force can be a pump, centrifugal force, gas pressure, or any other
force that is operable to provide enough force to flow a sample through one or more filters as
described herein. A supernatant of a centrifuged or filtered blood sample can contain A2M. In
some embodiments, the supernatant can contain A2M and platelets. In some embodiments, the
supernatant can contain A2M and not contain platelets.
[0236] It is an object of the current invention to concentrate platelets and, in some embodiments,
allow for the retention of platelet-released growth factors, while, in some embodiments, using a
molecular weight cutoff of a filter and a tangential flow ultrafiltration (TFF) step to avoid the
                                                    74

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
concentration of potentially proinflammatory cytokines and catabolic proteases. After obtaining
PRP, tangential flow ultrafiltration (TFF) can be used to concentrate platelets to a desired
concentration range using the methods described herein, resulting in an autologous platelet
integrated concentrate in which low molecular weight proteins, such as cytokines and proteases,
such as those less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa in mass, have not been substantially
concentrated. In some embodiments, filter parameters can be chosen to concentrate platelets and
to avoid concentration of cytokines, proteases, and potentially undesirable plasma proteins.
[0237] In some embodiments, it is preferable to separate red blood cells and white blood cells
from the biological sample and retain platelets within the biological sample prior to flowing the
sample through one or more filters by performing one or more centrifugation steps. In some
embodiments, it is preferable to separate red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets from the
biological sample prior to flowing or passing the sample through the one or more filter by
performing one or more centrifugation steps.
[0238] In some embodiments, it is preferable to separate red blood cells and white blood cells
from the biological sample and retain platelets within the biological sample by flowing or
passing the biological sample through one or more filters or membranes. In some embodiments,
it is preferable to separate red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets from the biological
sample by flowing or passing the biological sample through one or more filters. The one or more
filters used to remove the cells and other large particles from the biological sample can have a
pore size of at least about 0.1 pm. For example, the one or more filters used to remove the cells
and other large particles from the biological sample can have a pore size of at least about 0.2pm,
0.3pm, 0.4pm, 0.5pm, 0.6pm, 0.7pm, 0.7pm, 0.8pm, 0.9pm, 1pm, 1.1Ipm, 1.2pm, 1.3pm,
 1.4pm, 1.5pm, 1.6pm, 1.7pm, 1.8pm, 1.9pm, 2pm, 2.1pm, 2.2pm, 2.3pm, 2.4pm, 2.5pm,
2.6pm, 2.7pm, 2.8pm, 2.9pm, or 3pm, or higher. As a non-limiting example, a biological
sample, such as blood, can be flowed through one or more filters with a pore size of at least
about 0.2pm wherein the red blood cells and white blood cells are retained by the filter and are
in the retentate and non-cellular components and platelets are not retained by the filter and are in
the filtrate. As another non-limiting example, a biological sample, such as blood, can be flowed
through one or more filters with a pore size of at least about 0.2pm wherein the red blood cells,
white blood cells, and platelets are retained by the filter in the retentate and non-cellular
components are not retained by the filter and are in the filtrate.
[0239] In some embodiments, one or more of the filters can have a charge, immobilized
molecules, or a combination thereof and can thereby enhance the selectivity of the filters.
Immobilized molecules can be antibodies, proteins, receptors, ligands, carbohydrates,
                                                   75

 WO 2015/031654                                                                     PCT/US2014/053223
nucleotides, RNA, DNA or any combination thereof. For example, enhancing the selectivity of
filters can enhance the ability of a filter to retain A2M in the retentate upon flowing or passing a
biological sample through the filter or, as another example, enhance the ability of a filter to not
retain molecules that are not A2M upon flowing a biological sample through the filter.
[0240] Additionally, one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off can be used and can
allow a percentage of particles in the biological sample, such as cells and proteins, with a
molecular weight higher than the molecular weight cut-off of the filter to be retained by the
filter. The retained sample can be a retentate and the sample that flows through the filter can be a
filtrate. A filter with a molecular weight cut-off can allow more than about 10%, 15%, 20%,
2 5 %, 3 0%,  35%, 4 0%, 45%, 50%,     55 %, 6 0%,  65%, 70%, 7 5 %, 8 0%,     8 5 %, 9 0%, 95%, or 100%
of particles in a biological sample with a molecular weight higher than the molecular weight cut
off of the filter to be retained by the filter. For example, one or more filters can retain about
 100% of cells, cellular debris, or a combination thereof, from a blood sample and can retain less
than about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 25%, 3 0%, 35%, 4 0%,          4 5 %, 5 0%, 5 5
                                                                           %, 6 0%, 65%, 7 0%,  7 5 %,
8 %
  0 , 8 5%, 9 0%,    95
                        %, or 100% of the proteins with a molecular weight less than about 50, 100,
and/or 500 kDa from a biological sample containing A2M.
[0241] One or more filtrates can be passed through one or more other filters by applying a
gravitational, centrifugal, or mechanical force to the one or more filtrates. A sample can be
separated into one or more other filtrates and one or more other retentates, for example a second
filtrate and a second retentate. For example, a sample can be separated into 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
 10, or more other filtrates and 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more other retentates upon flowing the
sample through 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more other filters. For example, a sample can be
separated into 2 other filtrates and 2 other retentates upon flowing or passing the sample through
one or more other filters. An A2M enriched sample can be a first, second, third, fourth, fifth, or
more other retentate upon flowing a biological sample through one or more other filters. One or
more other retentates, filtrates, or A2M enriched samples can be diluted, such as with a diluent.
For example, a diluent can be a liquid, such as a WFI solution or a saline solution.
[0242] In some embodiments, after separating the cells from a biological sample the resulting
composition lacking red blood cells and white blood cells, and either lacking or containing a
same, reduced or elevated platelet level, can be flowed or passed through one or more filters to
obtain one or more filtrates and retentates, such as an A2M enriched retentate or A2M
concentrated retentate. The resulting one or more filtrates can be flowed through one or more
other filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50, 100, and/ or 500 kDa to obtain
one or more other filtrates and retentates, such as an A2M enriched or concentrated retentate. For
                                                     76

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
example, a filtrate lacking red blood cells and white blood cells, and either lacking or containing
a same, reduced or elevated platelet level, can be flowed through one or more filters with a
molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70 kDa, 75 kDa, 80
kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95 kDa, 100 kDa, 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa, 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 160
kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200 kDa, 210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa, 240 kDa, 250 kDa, 260
kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300 kDa, 310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa, 340 kDa, 350 kDa, 360
kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400 kDa, 410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa, 440 kDa, 450 kDa, 460
kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa or lower to obtain one or more filtrates and retentates, such as
an A2M enriched retentate or A2M concentrated retentate.
[0243] In some embodiments, a filtrate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%,
30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,        5 0 %, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 95%, or 100% of the
red blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a filtrate can comprise less than
about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 2 5%,        3 0%, 35%,%4 0 , 45%,
                                                          50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%,      8 0 %,
85%, 9 0%, 95%, or 100% of the white blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments,
a filtrate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 2 5%,      3
                                                                     0%, 35%, 4 0%, 45%, 50%, 55%,
6 0 % , 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 95%, or 100% of the red and white blood cells in a
biological sample. In some embodiments, a filtrate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%,
20%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or
 100% of the platelets in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a filtrate can comprise more
than about or about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%,
75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%,     9
                             5%, or 100% of the platelets in a biological sample.
[0244] In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise more than about or about 10%, 15%,
20%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or
 100% of the red blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a retentate can
comprise more than about or about 10%, 15%, 2 0%,         2
                                                            5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55%,
60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100% of the white blood cells in a biological
sample. In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise more than about or about 10%, 15%,
20%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%      4 0%, 4 5%,   50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or
 100% of the red and white blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a retentate
                                              2
can comprise less than about 10%, 15%,          0%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 3
                                                                  5%, 4
                                                                        0%, 4 5%, 50
                                                                                     %, 55%,  60
                                                                                                   %,
                    8      8      9      9
65%, 70%, 75%, 0%,           5%, 0%, 5%, or 100% of the platelets in a biological sample. In some
                                                                                   2
embodiments, a retentate can comprise more than about or about 10%, 15%,             0%, 2 5%,  30
                                                                                                   %,
35%, 4 0%, 4 5%,    5 0 %, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 70%, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or 100% of the
platelets in a biological sample.
                                                     77

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0245] A retentate can be or comprise any of the compositions described, such as an autologous
A2M composition. For example, a retentate can comprise an elevated concentration of A2M
compared to the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample. For example, a retentate
can comprise an elevated concentration of A2M compared to the concentration of A2M found in
a biological sample and an elevated concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight
higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample. For example, a retentate can
comprise a reduced concentration of a protein with a molecular weight greater than about 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa compared to the concentration of the protein found in a biological sample
and an elevated concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample. For example, a retentate can comprise an
elevated concentration of A2M compared to the concentration of A2M found in a biological
sample and a reduced concentration of a protein with a molecular weight greater than about 50,
 100, and/or 500 kDa compared to the concentration of the protein found in a biological sample.
[0246] In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%,
30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,       5 0 %, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 7 0 %, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or 100% of the
red blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise less than
about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 25%, 30%, 3 5% 4 0%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 65%, 70%, 75%,                8 0 %,
85%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or 100% of the white blood cells in a biological sample. In some embodiments,
                                                        2
a retentate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%,        0%, 2 5%, 30%,  3
                                                                            5%, 4
                                                                                  0%, 4
                                                                                        5%, 50%,
55%, 6 0%, 6 5%,   7 0 %, 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%,   or 100% of the red and white blood cells in
a biological sample. In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise less than about 10%, 15%,
20%, 2 5%,   3 0%, 3%, %  4 0 , 45%, 50%, 55%     6 0%, 6 5%, 7 0% , 75%, 8 0%, %8   ,%9 0 , 95%, or
 100% of the platelets in a biological sample. In some embodiments, a retentate can comprise
more than about or about 10%, 15%, 2 0%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 35%,        4
                                                                   0%, 45%, 50%, 55%,     6
                                                                                            0%, 6 5%,
7 0% , 75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 95%, or 100% of the platelets in a biological sample.
[0247] For example, a concentration of A2M in a retentate obtained by flowing a biological
sample lacking red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets through one or more filters with a
molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.1 times
higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of one
or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about
 1.1 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher
than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample. For example, the concentration of
A2M in a retentate obtained by flowing a biological sample lacking red blood cells, white blood
cells and platelets through one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most about
                                                   78

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70 kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95 kDa, 100 kDa,
 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa, 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 160 kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200 kDa,
210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa, 240 kDa, 250 kDa, 260 kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300 kDa,
310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa, 340 kDa, 350 kDa, 360 kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400 kDa,
410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa, 440 kDa, 450 kDa, 460 kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa, 500 kDa,
or lower, can be at least about 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5,
9,9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75,
80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the
concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of one or more
proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 1.6,
 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400,
500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins
with molecular weight higher than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample.
For example, the concentration of A2M in a retentate obtained by flowing a biological sample
lacking red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets through one or more filters with a
molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about 2 times
higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the concentration of one
or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be at least about
2 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher
than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample.
[0248] As another example, a retentate, such as an A2M enriched or concentrated retentate
obtained by flowing or passing a composition, such as a filtrate lacking red blood cells and white
blood cells, but not lacking platelets, through one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off
of at most about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa, can comprise an elevated concentration of A2M
compared to the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and an elevated
concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500
kDa found in a biological sample. The concentration of A2M in a retentate obtained by flowing a
biological sample lacking red blood cells and white blood cells, but not lacking platelets, through
one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can
be at least about 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample
and the concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or
500 kDa can be at least about 1.1 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins
with molecular weight higher than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa found in a biological sample. For
                                                        79

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
example, The concentration of A2M in a retentate obtained by flowing a biological sample
lacking red blood cells and white blood cells, but not lacking platelets, through one or more
filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most about 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70
kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95 kDa, 100 kDa, 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa, 140 kDa,
 150 kDa, 160 kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200 kDa, 210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa, 240 kDa,
250 kDa, 260 kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300 kDa, 310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa, 340 kDa,
350 kDa, 360 kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400 kDa, 410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa, 440 kDa,
450 kDa, 460 kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa, 500 kDa, or lower, can be at least about 1.6, 1.7,
 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500,
600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological
sample and the concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 500
kDa can be at least about 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9,
9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80,
85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times higher than the
concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than about 500 kDa
found in a biological sample. For example, the concentration of A2M in a retentate obtained by
flowing a biological sample lacking red blood cells, white blood cells, but not lacking platelets,
through one or more filters with a molecular weight cut-off of at most about 500 kDa can be at
least about 2 times higher than the concentration of A2M found in a biological sample and the
concentration of one or more proteins with molecular weight higher than 500 kDa can be at least
about 2 times higher than the concentration of the one or more proteins with molecular weight
higher than about 500 kDa found in a biological sample.
[0249] In some embodiments, after passing a sample, such as a biological sample or one or more
filtrates, through one or more filters, at least about 10% of particles, and proteins with a
molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be removed from the sample. For
                                                              2
example, at least about 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%,                0%, 2 5%, 3 0%, 35%,    4
                                                                                          0%, 45%, 50%,
55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%,        7
                              5%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100% of cells, particles, and small
proteins with a molecular weight less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be removed from
the sample. For example, at least about 20% of particles and proteins with a molecular weight
less than about 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa can be removed from the sample. At least about 110%,
 12 % , 13%, 14%, 15%,      2
                              0%,  2
                                     5%,  3
                                            0%, 3
                                                  5%,  4
                                                         0%,  4
                                                                5%, 50%, 55%,     6
                                                                                    0%, 6
                                                                                          5%, 70%, 75%,
8 %
  0   , 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or 100% of cells, particles, and proteins with a molecular weight less than
about 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60 kDa, 65 kDa, 70 kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95 kDa, 100
                                                         80

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
kDa, 110 kDa, 120 kDa, 130 kDa, 140 kDa, 150 kDa, 160 kDa, 170 kDa, 180 kDa, 190 kDa, 200
kDa, 210 kDa, 220 kDa, 230 kDa, 240 kDa, 250 kDa, 260 kDa, 270 kDa, 280 kDa, 290 kDa, 300
kDa, 310 kDa, 320 kDa, 330 kDa, 340 kDa, 350 kDa, 360 kDa, 370 kDa, 380 kDa, 390 kDa, 400
kDa, 410 kDa, 420 kDa, 430 kDa, 440 kDa, 450 kDa, 460 kDa, 470 kDa, 480 kDa, 490 kDa, or
less can be removed from the sample. For example, at least about 20% of particles and small
proteins with a molecular weight less than 50, 100, and/or 500 kDa, can be removed from the
sample. An autologous composition described herein can be isolated after passing a sample
through one or more filters.
[0250] One or more additional non-blood derived components can be added to the one or more
filtrates or retentates. Non-blood derived components can be added before, during, or after
isolation. A non-blood derived component can be an anti-coagulant. For example, an anti
coagulant can be EDTA, tri-sodium citrate, water for injection (WFI), or saline.
[0251] One or more additional blood products or blood-derived components can be added to the
one or more filtrates or retentates. Blood products or blood-derived components can be added
before, during, or after isolation. Blood products or blood derived components can be cells,
peptides, proteins, DNA, RNA, carbohydrates, or other small molecules. For example, blood
products or blood-derived components can be red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets.
[0252] Platelets can be isolated from a biological sample according to any method known in the
art, such as by centrifugation of a blood sample. Red blood cells and white blood cells can be
sedimented by centrifugation at relatively low centrifugal force, for example, less than 1000g.
Platelets can be isolated by centrifugation of the platelet containing plasma obtained from a first
centrifugation. A platelet containing plasma can be centrifuged, for example, between about
3000g to 5000g, to sediment platelets. The above procedure can also be performed in one or
more centrifugation steps.
[0253] In some embodiments, one or more other filtrates or retentates, for example a second
filtrate or second retentate can be collected. One or more additional non-blood derived
components can be added to the one or more other filtrates or other retentates. Non-blood
derived components can be added before, during, or after isolation. A non-blood derived
component can be an anti-coagulant. For example, an anti-coagulant can be EDTA, tri-sodium
citrate, water for injection (WFI), or saline.
[0254] One or more additional blood products or blood-derived components can be added to the
one or more other filtrates or other retentates. Blood products or blood-derived components can
be added before, during, or after flowing or passing the biological sample through one or more
filters. Blood products or blood-derived components can be cells, peptides, proteins, DNA,
                                                  81

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
RNA, carbohydrates, or other small molecules. For example, blood products or blood-derived
components can be red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets.
[0255] In some embodiments, an autologous composition produced from use of a system as
described herein can have minimal foaming, and thus be suitable for injection into a subject. In
some embodiments, a composition can have substantially no foaming. In some embodiments, a
composition can have a volume wherein less than 20%, 19%, 18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13%,
 12 % , 11 %,10%, 9%, 8 %, 7%,    6
                                    %, 5%,  4
                                              %, 3 %, 2
                                                        %, 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, 0.05%, 0.01%, 0.005%,
0.001%, 0.0005%, 0.0001%, 0.00005%, 0.00001%, or less of the total volume of the
composition is foam. Methods of measuring the amount of foam are known in the art. Examples
include measuring specific conductivity, volume changes after removing foam, foam volumes,
rate of foam degeneration over time, viscosity, optical absorption, specific surface, and other
measurements. For example, in some embodiments, determining the amount of foam in a
composition can comprise measuring the viscosity of the composition. In some embodiments,
foaming measurements can be compared to foaming measurements taken from a reference
sample. The reference sample can comprise a known amount of foaming.
Variant A2M Polypeptides Compositions for Treatment of Chronic Wounds
[0256] A2M is a general inhibitor of metalloproteases and other proteases such as ADAMTS 4
and ADAMTS 5. These proteases and others produced as a result of a wound, such as a chronic
wound can be responsible for slow healing of the wound or persistence of the wound. Any of the
recombinant compositions described herein can be used for treatment of a subject with a
condition, disease, or chronic wound according to any of the methods described herein.
[0257] A2M is able to inactivate an enormous variety of proteases (including serine-, cysteine-,
and aspartic-metalloproteases). A2M can function as an inhibitor of fibrinolysis by inhibiting
plasmin and kallikrein. A2M can function as an inhibitor of coagulation by inhibiting thrombin.
Human A2M has in its structure a 38 amino acid "bait" region. The bait region varies widely in
the amino acid number (27 - 52 amino acids) and sequence between animal species. Proteases
binding and cleaving of the bait region can become bound to A2M. The protease-A2M complex
can be recognized by macrophage receptors and cleared from the organism's system. A2M is
able to inhibit all four classes of proteases by a unique 'trapping' mechanism. When a protease
cleaves the bait region, a conformational change can be induced in the protein which can trap the
protease. The entrapped enzyme can remain active against low molecular weight substrates
(activity against high molecular weight substrates can be greatly reduced). Following cleavage in
                                                    82

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
the bait region a thioester bond can be hydrolyzed and can mediate the covalent binding of the
protein to the protease.
[0258] In one aspect, provided herein is a composition that can be a variant A2M polypeptide. A
variant A2M polypeptide can be a recombinant protein, or fragments thereof, and can be
produced in a host cell and purified for use in treatment of chronic wounds. A variant A2M
composition can be more efficient in inhibiting proteases, have longer half-life, have a slower
clearance factor, or any combination thereof compared to a wild-type A2M. A variant A2M can
be a recombinant protein, or a fragment thereof, and can be produced in a host cell and purified.
For example, a variant A2M recombinant protein can be produced in a host comprising bacteria,
yeast, fungi, insect, or mammalian cells, or a cell free system.
[0259] Variant A2M polypeptides or fragments thereof, can also be variants or
posttranslationally modified variants of A2M. A2M variant polypeptides can have an integer
number of amino acid alterations such that their amino acid sequence shares at least about 60%,
70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or 100% identity with an amino acid
sequence of a wild type A2M polypeptide. In some embodiments, A2M variant polypeptides can
have an amino acid sequence sharing at least about 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%,
98%, 99%, 99.5% or 100% identity with the amino acid sequence of a wild type A2M
polypeptide.
[0260] Percent sequence identity can be calculated using computer programs or direct sequence
comparison. Preferred computer program methods to determine identity between two sequences
include, but are not limited to, the GCG program package, FASTA, BLASTP, and TBLASTN
(see, e.g., D. W. Mount, 2001, Bioinformatics: Sequence and Genome Analysis, Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.). The BLASTP and TBLASTN programs
are publicly available from NCBI and other sources. The Smith Waterman algorithm can also be
used to determine percent identity. Exemplary parameters for amino acid sequence comparison
include the following: 1) algorithm from Needleman and Wunsch (J. Mol. Biol., 48:443-453
(1970)); 2) BLOSSUM62 comparison matrix from Hentikoff and Hentikoff (Proc. Nat. Acad.
Sci. USA., 89:10915-10919 (1992)) 3) gap penalty=12; and 4) gap length penalty=4. A program
useful with these parameters can be publicly available as the "gap" program (Genetics Computer
Group, Madison, Wis.). The aforementioned parameters are the default parameters for
polypeptide comparisons (with no penalty for end gaps). Alternatively, polypeptide sequence
identity can be calculated using the following equation: % identity-(the number of identical
residues)/(alignment length in amino acid residues)* 100. For this calculation, alignment length
includes internal gaps but does not include terminal gaps
                                                  83

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
[0261] Variant A2M polypeptides, or fragments thereof, include but are not limited to, those
containing as a primary amino acid sequence all or part of the amino acid sequence encoded by
SEQ ID NOs: 5-66, and fragments of these proteins, including altered sequences in which
functionally equivalent amino acid residues are substituted for residues within the sequence
resulting in a silent change. The variant A2M polypeptides can include all or part of the amino
acid sequence encoded by SEQ ID NO: 3. The variant A2M polypeptides can be, for example,
any number of between 4-20, 20-50, 50-100, 100-300, 300-600, 600-1000, 1000-1450
consecutive amino acids containing the amino acids sequences of SEQ. ID NOs. 5-66. The
variant A2M polypeptide can be less than or equal to 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43,
44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69,
70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95,
96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, and
 1450 amino acids in length and contain, as part of the sequence: SEQ ID NOs: 5-66. Variant
A2M polypeptides includes polypeptide sequences having at least 95%, 94%, 93%, 92%, 91%,
90%, 89%, 88%, 87%, 86%, 85%, 84%, 83%, 82%, 81%, 80%, 79%, 78%, 77%, 76%, 75%,
74%, 73%, 72%, 71%, 70%, 69%, 68%, 67%, 66%, 65%, 64%, 63%, 62%, 61%, or 60%
sequence identity or similarity to any variant A2M polypeptide containing one of SEQ ID NOs:
5-66.
[0262] The variant A2M polypeptides provided herein also include proteins characterized by
amino acid sequences similar to those of purified proteins but into which modification are
naturally provided or deliberately engineered. For example, modifications, in the variant A2M
peptide or variant A2M DNA sequence, can be made by those skilled in the art using known
techniques. Modifications of interest in the protein sequences can include the alteration,
substitution, replacement, insertion or deletion of a selected amino acid residue in the coding
sequence. For example, one or more of the cysteine residues can be deleted or replaced with
another amino acid to alter the conformation of the molecule. Techniques for such alteration,
substitution, replacement, insertion or deletion are well known to those skilled in the art (see,
e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,518,584). Preferably, such alteration, substitution, replacement, insertion or
deletion retains the desired activity of the protein. Regions of the protein that are important for
the protein function can be determined by various methods known in the art including the
alanine-scanning method which involves systematic substitution of single or multiple amino
acids with alanine, followed by testing the resulting alanine-containing variant for biological
                                                   84

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
activity. This type of analysis can be used to determine the importance of the substituted amino
acid(s) in biological activity.
[0263] The bait region of A2M is a segment that is susceptible to proteolytic cleavage, and
which, upon cleavage, initiates a conformational change in the A2M molecule resulting in the
collapse of the structure around the protease. For the exemplary A2M sequences set forth in SEQ
ID NO: 3, the bait region corresponds to amino acids 690-728. For the exemplary A2M
sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 and 2, the bait region corresponds to the nucleotides
encoding amino acids 690-728.
[0264] A variant A2M polypeptide can comprise a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide. For
example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can be a mutant bait region, fragment of a
bait region, a bait region from another species, an isoform of a bait region, or a bait region
containing multiple copies of one or more bait regions described herein, or any combination
thereof. A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can include a plurality of protease
recognition sites arranged in series and can be arranged in any order.
[0265] A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more protease recognition
sites. For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, or 10 or more protease recognition sites. Protease recognition sites or substrate bait
regions can be consensus sequences for serine proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine proteases,
aspartate proteases, metalloproteases, glutamic acid proteases, or any combination thereof
compared to a wild type A2M protein. A variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by an
enhanced specific inhibition of serine proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine proteases,
aspartate proteases, metalloproteases, glutamic acid proteases, or any combination thereof. A
variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by an enhanced nonspecific inhibition of serine
proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine proteases, aspartate proteases, metalloproteases, glutamic
acid proteases, or any combination thereof compared to a wild type A2M protein.
[0266] A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more mutant base regions.
For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
or 10 or more mutant base regions. A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or
more bait region fragments. For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2
or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more bait region fragments. A fragment of a bait region of
a variant A2M polypeptide can be a fragment of any of SEQ ID NOs: 5-66.
[0267] A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more mutant amino acids
that are different than those amino acids in a wild-type A2M polypeptide. For example, a bait
region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more
                                                   85

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
mutant amino acids that are different than those amino acids in a wild-type A2M polypeptide. A
bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more mutant amino acid regions that
are different than those regions in a wild-type A2M polypeptide. For example, a bait region of a
variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more mutant amino
acid regions that are different than those regions in a wild-type A2M polypeptide. A mutant bait
region of a variant A2M polypeptide can replace or substitute a bait region in a wild-type A2M
polypeptide. A mutant bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can be any of SEQ ID NOs: 5
66.
[0268] The A2M variant polypeptides provided herein also include A2M variant proteins
characterized by amino acid sequences similar to those of purified A2M variant. Isolated or
purified variant A2M polypeptides can have one or more amino acid residues within the
polypeptide that are substituted by another amino acid of a similar polarity that acts as a
functional equivalent, resulting in a silent alteration. Substitutes for an amino acid within the
sequence can be selected from other members of the class to which the amino acid belongs. For
example, the non-polar (hydrophobic) amino acids include alanine, leucine, isoleucine, valine,
proline, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and methionine. The polar neutral amino acids include
glycine, serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine, asparagine and glutamine. The positively charged
(basic) amino acids include arginine, lysine, and histidine. The negatively charged (acidic) amino
acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid. The aromatic amino acids include phenylalanine,
tryptophan, and tyrosine.
[0269] A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more bait region isoforms.
For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
or 10 or more bait region isoforms. A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or
more mutant or engineered bait regions. For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide
can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more mutant or engineered bait regions.
[0270] A bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide can have one or more copies of one or more
bait regions. The one or more bait regions can be the same bait regions (repeats), different bait
regions, or any combination thereof. For example, a bait region of a variant A2M polypeptide
can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more copies of one or more bait regions,
wherein the one or more bait regions can be the same bait regions (repeats), different bait
regions, or any combination thereof.
[0271] A variant A2M polypeptide can comprise one or more bait regions derived from different
organisms, different species of an organism, or a combination thereof. For example, a variant
A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more bait regions derived
                                                   86

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
from different organisms, different species of an organism, or a combination thereof. One or
more bait regions derived from different organisms can be derived from one or more different
organisms and not from different species of an organism. For example, one or more modified
bait regions can be derived from 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more different
organisms and not contain 2 or more bait regions derived from different species of an organism.
One or more bait regions derived from different species of an organism can be derived from one
or more different species of an organism and not from different organisms. For example, one or
more modified bait regions can be derived from 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 or more
different species of an organism and not contain 2 or more bait regions derived from different
organism. The modified bait regions can be derived from any animal, insect, plant, bacteria,
viral, yeast, fish, reptile, amphibian, or fungi. The modified bait regions can be derived from any
animal with A2M or homologous protein, such as pig, mouse, rat, rabbit, cat, dog, frog, monkey,
horse or goat.
[0272] A variant A2M polypeptide can comprise one or more bait regions of variant A2M
polypeptides. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
or 10 or more bait region of variant A2M polypeptides. One or more bait region of a variant
A2M polypeptides can be derived from one or more different species. For example, one or more
bait regions of variant A2M polypeptides can be derived from 2 or more, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
10 or more different species. The bait region of variant A2M polypeptides can be derived from
any animal, insect, plant, bacteria, viral, yeast, fish, reptile, amphibian, or fungi species.
[0273] A variant A2M polypeptide can have a plurality of protease recognition sites that can be
one or more protease substrate bait regions from one or more proteins other than A2M.
[0274] A variant A2M polypeptide can have a plurality of protease recognition sites that can be
one or more protease substrate bait regions from A2M. A variant A2M polypeptide can have a
plurality of protease recognition sites that can be one or more protease substrate bait regions
from one or more non-natural protein sequences. The non-natural protein sequences can
comprise one or more protease recognition sites in series and can function as bait for proteases.
A variant A2M polypeptide can have a plurality of protease recognition sites that can be one or
more protease substrate bait regions from or any of the combination of bait regions described
herein. A variant A2M polypeptide can have any number of protease bait regions arranged in
series. A variant A2M polypeptide can have any number of protease bait regions from any
species and can be arranged in series. One or more protease substrate bait regions from one or
more proteins other than A2M or from the one or more non-natural protein sequences can be a
suicide inhibitor. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
                                                    87

 WO 2015/031654                                                                         PCT/US2014/053223
 12, 13, 14, 15, or more suicide inhibitor bait regions. A suicide inhibitor can be operable to
covalently attach a protease to A2M.
[0275] A variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by at least about a 10% increase in
protease inhibitory effectiveness compared to the protease inhibitory effectiveness of a wild type
A2M protein. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by at least about a
20, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or
 100% increase in protease inhibitory effectiveness when compared to the protease inhibitory
effectiveness of a wild type A2M protein. A variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by an
increase in protease inhibitory effectiveness compared to the protease inhibitory effectiveness of
a wild type A2M protein. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized by an
 1.2, 1.2, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10,
 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90,
95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times increase in protease inhibitory
effectiveness compared to the protease inhibitory effectiveness of a wild type A2M protein.
[0276] A variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized as having an increased ability to inhibit
one or more proteases compared to a wild-type A2M polypeptide. A variant A2M polypeptide
can have an ability to inhibit one or more proteases that is at least 1.5 times higher than the
ability of a wild-type A2M polypeptide to inhibit the one or more proteases. For example, a
variant A2M polypeptide can have an ability to inhibit one or more proteases that is at least 1.5,
 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7,
3.8, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70,
80, 90, or 100 times higher than the ability of a wild-type A2M polypeptide to inhibit the one or
more proteases. A variant A2M polypeptide can have an ability to inhibit one or more proteases
that is from 1.5-100 times higher than the ability of a wild-type A2M polypeptide to inhibit the
one or more proteases. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can have an ability to inhibit
one or more proteases that is from 1.6-100, 1.7-100, 1.8-100, 1.9-100, 2-100, 2.1-100, 2.2-100,
2.3-100, 2.4-100, 2.5-100, 2.6-100, 2.7-100, 2.8-100, 2.9-100, 3.0-100, 3.1-100, 3.2-100, 3.3
 100, 3.4-100, 3.5-100, 3.6-100, 3.7-100, 3.8-100, 3.9-100, 4-100, 5-100, 6-100, 7-100, 8-100, 9
 100, 10-100, 11-100, 12-100, 13-100, 14-100, 15-100, 16-100, 17-100, 18-100, 19-100, 20-100,
25-100, 30-100, 35-100, 40-100, 45-100, 50-100, 60-100, 70-100, 80-100, 90-100, 1.5-90, 1.6
90, 1.7-90, 1.8-90, 1.9-90, 2-90, 2.1-90, 2.2-90, 2.3-90, 2.4-90, 2.5-90, 2.6-90, 2.7-90, 2.8-90,
2.9-90, 3.0-90, 3.1-90, 3.2-90, 3.3-90, 3.4-90, 3.5-90, 3.6-90, 3.7-90, 3.8-90, 3.9-90, 4-90, 5-90,
6-90, 7-90, 8-90, 9-90, 10-90, 11-90, 12-90, 13-90, 14-90, 15-90, 16-90, 17-90, 18-90, 19-90,
20-90, 25-90, 30-90, 35-90, 40-90, 45-90, 50-90, 60-90, 70-90, 80-90, 1.5-80, 1.6-80, 1.7-80,
                                                        88

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
1.8-80, 1.9-80, 2-80, 2.1-80, 2.2-80, 2.3-80, 2.4-80, 2.5-80, 2.6-80, 2.7-80, 2.8-80, 2.9-80, 3.0
80, 3.1-80, 3.2-80, 3.3-80, 3.4-80, 3.5-80, 3.6-80, 3.7-80, 3.8-80, 3.9-80, 4-80, 5-80, 6-80, 7-80,
8-80, 9-80, 10-80, 11-80, 12-80, 13-80, 14-80, 15-80, 16-80, 17-80, 18-80, 19-80, 20-80, 25-80,
30-80, 35-80, 40-80, 45-80, 50-80, 60-80, 70-80, 1.5-70, 1.6-70, 1.7-70, 1.8-70, 1.9-70, 2-70,
2.1-70, 2.2-70, 2.3-70, 2.4-70, 2.5-70, 2.6-70, 2.7-70, 2.8-70, 2.9-70, 3.0-70, 3.1-70, 3.2-70, 3.3
70, 3.4-70, 3.5-70, 3.6-70, 3.7-70, 3.8-70, 3.9-70, 4-70, 5-70, 6-70, 7-70, 8-70, 9-70, 10-70, 11
70, 12-70, 13-70, 14-70, 15-70, 16-70, 17-70, 18-70, 19-70, 20-70, 25-70, 30-70, 35-70, 40-70,
45-70, 50-70, 60-70, 1.5-60, 1.6-60, 1.7-60, 1.8-60, 1.9-60, 2-60, 2.1-60, 2.2-60, 2.3-60, 2.4-60,
2.5-60, 2.6-60, 2.7-60, 2.8-60, 2.9-60, 3.0-60, 3.1-60, 3.2-60, 3.3-60, 3.4-60, 3.5-60, 3.6-60, 3.7
60, 3.8-60, 3.9-60, 4-60, 5-60, 6-60, 7-60, 8-60, 9-60, 10-60, 11-60, 12-60, 13-60, 14-60, 15-60,
16-60, 17-60, 18-60, 19-60, 20-60, 25-60, 30-60, 35-60, 40-60, 45-60, 50-60, 1.5-50, 1.6-50, 1.7
50, 1.8-50, 1.9-50, 2-50, 2.1-50, 2.2-50, 2.3-50, 2.4-50, 2.5-50, 2.6-50, 2.7-50, 2.8-50, 2.9-50,
3.0-50, 3.1-50, 3.2-50, 3.3-50, 3.4-50, 3.5-50, 3.6-50, 3.7-50, 3.8-50, 3.9-50, 4-50, 5-50, 6-50, 7
50, 8-50, 9-50, 10-50, 11-50, 12-50, 13-50, 14-50, 15-50, 16-50, 17-50, 18-50, 19-50, 20-50, 25
50, 30-50, 35-50, 40-50, 1.5-40, 1.6-40, 1.7-40, 1.8-40, 1.9-40, 2-40, 2.1-40, 2.2-40, 2.3-40, 2.4
40, 2.5-40, 2.6-40, 2.7-40, 2.8-40, 2.9-40, 3.0-40, 3.1-40, 3.2-40, 3.3-40, 3.4-40, 3.5-40, 3.6-40,
3.7-40, 3.8-40, 3.9-40, 4-40, 5-40, 6-40, 7-40, 8-40, 9-40, 10-40, 11-40, 12-40, 13-40, 14-40, 15
40, 16-40, 17-40, 18-40, 19-40, 20-40, 25-40, 30-40, 1.5-30, 1.6-30, 1.7-30, 1.8-30, 1.9-30, 2-30,
2.1-30, 2.2-30, 2.3-30, 2.4-30, 2.5-30, 2.6-30, 2.7-30, 2.8-30, 2.9-30, 3.0-30, 3.1-30, 3.2-30, 3.3
30, 3.4-30, 3.5-30, 3.6-30, 3.7-30, 3.8-30, 3.9-30, 4-30, 5-30, 6-30, 7-30, 8-30, 9-30, 10-30, 11
30, 12-30, 13-30, 14-30, 15-30, 16-30, 17-30, 18-30, 19-30, 20-30, 1.5-20, 1.6-20, 1.7-20, 1.8
20, 1.9-20, 2-20, 2.1-20, 2.2-20, 2.3-20, 2.4-20, 2.5-20, 2.6-20, 2.7-20, 2.8-20, 2.9-20, 3.0-20,
3.1-20, 3.2-20, 3.3-20, 3.4-20, 3.5-20, 3.6-20, 3.7-20, 3.8-20, 3.9-20, 4-20, 5-20, 6-20, 7-20, 8
20, 9-20, 10-20, 11-20, 12-20, 13-20, 14-20, 15-20, 1.5-15, 1.6-15, 1.7-15, 1.8-15, 1.9-15, 2-15,
2.1-15, 2.2-15, 2.3-15, 2.4-15, 2.5-15, 2.6-15, 2.7-15, 2.8-15, 2.9-15, 3.0-15, 3.1-15, 3.2-15, 3.3
15, 3.4-15, 3.5-15, 3.6-15, 3.7-15, 3.8-15, 3.9-15, 4-15, 5-15, 6-15, 7-15, 8-15, 9-15, 10-15, 11
15, 12-15, 13-15, 14-15, 1.5-10, 1.6-10, 1.7-10, 1.8-10, 1.9-10, 2-10, 2.1-10, 2.2-10, 2.3-10, 2.4
10, 2.5-10, 2.6-10, 2.7-10, 2.8-10, 2.9-10, 3.0-10, 3.1-10, 3.2-10, 3.3-10, 3.4-10, 3.5-10, 3.6-10,
3.7-10, 3.8-10, 3.9-10, 4-10, 5-10, 6-10, 7-10, 8-10, 9-10, 1.5-9, 1.6-9, 1.7-9, 1.8-9, 1.9-9, 2-9,
2.1-9, 2.2-9, 2.3-9, 2.4-9, 2.5-9, 2.6-9, 2.7-9, 2.8-9, 2.9-9, 3.0-9, 3.1-9, 3.2-9, 3.3-9, 3.4-9, 3.5-9,
3.6-9, 3.7-9, 3.8-9, 3.9-9, 4-9, 5-9, 6-9, 7-9, 8-9, 1.5-8, 1.6-8, 1.7-8, 1.8-8, 1.9-8, 2-8, 2.1-8, 2.2
8, 2.3-8, 2.4-8, 2.5-8, 2.6-8, 2.7-8, 2.8-8, 2.9-8, 3.0-8, 3.1-8, 3.2-8, 3.3-8, 3.4-8, 3.5-8, 3.6-8, 3.7
8, 3.8-8, 3.9-8, 4-8, 5-8, 6-8, 7-8, 1.5-7, 1.6-7, 1.7-7, 1.8-7, 1.9-7, 2-7, 2.1-7, 2.2-7, 2.3-7, 2.4-7,
2.5-7, 2.6-7, 2.7-7, 2.8-7, 2.9-7, 3.0-7, 3.1-7, 3.2-7, 3.3-7, 3.4-7, 3.5-7, 3.6-7, 3.7-7, 3.8-7, 3.9-7,
                                                    89

 WO 2015/031654                                                                       PCT/US2014/053223
4-7, 5-7, 6-7, 1.5-6, 1.6-6, 1.7-6, 1.8-6, 1.9-6, 2-6, 2.1-6, 2.2-6, 2.3-6, 2.4-6, 2.5-6, 2.6-6, 2.7-6,
2.8-6, 2.9-6, 3.0-6, 3.1-6, 3.2-6, 3.3-6, 3.4-6, 3.5-6, 3.6-6, 3.7-6, 3.8-6, 3.9-6, 4-6, 5-6, 1.5-5, 1.6
5, 1.7-5, 1.8-5, 1.9-5, 2-5, 2.1-5, 2.2-5, 2.3-5, 2.4-5, 2.5-5, 2.6-5, 2.7-5, 2.8-5, 2.9-5, 3.0-5, 3.1-5,
3.2-5, 3.3-5, 3.4-5, 3.5-5, 3.6-5, 3.7-5, 3.8-5, 3.9-5, 4-5, 1.5-4, 1.6-4, 1.7-4, 1.8-4, 1.9-4, 2-4, 2.1
4, 2.2-4, 2.3-4, 2.4-4, 2.5-4, 2.6-4, 2.7-4, 2.8-4, 2.9-4, 3.0-4, 3.1-4, 3.2-4, 3.3-4, 3.4-4, 3.5-4, 3.6
4, 3.7-4, 3.8-4, 3.9-4, 1.5-3, 1.6-3, 1.7-3, 1.8-3, 1.9-3, 2-3, 2.1-3, 2.2-3, 2.3-3, 2.4-3, 2.5-3, 2.6-3,
2.7-3, 2.8-3, 2.9-3, 1.5-2, 1.6-2, 1.7-2, 1.8-2, or 1.9-2 times higher than the ability of a wild-type
A2M polypeptide to inhibit the one or more proteases.
[0277] The one or more proteases can include a matrix metalloprotease, such as MMP 1
(Interstitial collagenase), MMP2 (Gelatinase-A), MMP3 (Stromelysin 1), MMP7 (Matrilysin,
PUMP 1), MMP8 (Neutrophil collagenase), MMP9 (Gelatinase-B), MMP10 (Stromelysin 2),
MMP1 1 ),Stromelysin 3), MMP12 (Macrophage metalloelastase), MMP13 (Collagenase 3),
MMP14 (MT1-MMP), MMP15 (MT2-MMP), MMP16 (MT3-MMP), MMP17 (MT4-MMP),
MMP 18 (Collagenase 4, xcol4, xenopus collagenase), MMP 19 (RASI- 1, stromelysin-4),
MMP20 (Enamelysin), MMP21 (X-MMP), MMP23A (CA-MMP), MMP23B MMP24 (MT5
MMP), MMP25 (MT6-MMP), MMP26 (Matrilysin-2, endometase), MMP27 (MMP-22, C
MMP), MMP28 (Epilysin); A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs
protease, such as ADAMTS1, ADAMTS2, ADAMTS3, ADAMTS4, ADAMTS5
(ADAMTS 11), ADAMTS6, ADAMTS7, ADAMTS8 (METH-2), ADAMTS9, ADAMTS 10,
ADAMTS12, ADAMTS13, ADAMTS14, ADAMTS15, ADAMTS16, ADAMTS17,
ADAMTS 18, ADAMTS 19, ADAMTS20; chymotrypsin; trypsin; elastase; compliment factors;
clotting factors; thrombin; plasmin; subtilisin; Neprilysin; Procollagen peptidase; Thermolysin;
Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A; Bone morphogenetic protein 1; Lysostaphin; Insulin
degrading enzyme; ZMPSTE2; and acetylcholinesterase.
[0278] A variant A2M polypeptide can be characterized as having an increased ability to prevent
FAC formation compared to a wild-type A2M polypeptide. A variant A2M polypeptide can have
an ability to prevent FAC formation that is at least 1.5 times higher than the ability of a wild-type
A2M polypeptide to prevent FAC formation. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can have
an ability to prevent FAC formation that is at least 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5,
2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 times higher than the ability
of a wild-type A2M polypeptide to prevent FAC formation. A variant A2M polypeptide can have
an ability to prevent FAC formation that is from 1.5-100 times higher than the ability of a wild
type A2M polypeptide to prevent FAC formation. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can
                                                      90

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
have an ability to prevent FAC formation that is from 1.6-100, 1.7-100, 1.8-100, 1.9-100, 2-100,
2.1-100, 2.2-100, 2.3-100, 2.4-100, 2.5-100, 2.6-100, 2.7-100, 2.8-100, 2.9-100, 3.0-100, 3.1
100, 3.2-100, 3.3-100, 3.4-100, 3.5-100, 3.6-100, 3.7-100, 3.8-100, 3.9-100, 4-100, 5-100, 6-100,
7-100, 8-100, 9-100, 10-100, 11-100, 12-100, 13-100, 14-100, 15-100, 16-100, 17-100, 18-100,
19-100, 20-100, 25-100, 30-100, 35-100, 40-100, 45-100, 50-100, 60-100, 70-100, 80-100, 90
100, 1.5-90, 1.6-90, 1.7-90, 1.8-90, 1.9-90, 2-90, 2.1-90, 2.2-90, 2.3-90, 2.4-90, 2.5-90, 2.6-90,
2.7-90, 2.8-90, 2.9-90, 3.0-90, 3.1-90, 3.2-90, 3.3-90, 3.4-90, 3.5-90, 3.6-90, 3.7-90, 3.8-90, 3.9
90, 4-90, 5-90, 6-90, 7-90, 8-90, 9-90, 10-90, 11-90, 12-90, 13-90, 14-90, 15-90, 16-90, 17-90,
18-90, 19-90, 20-90, 25-90, 30-90, 35-90, 40-90, 45-90, 50-90, 60-90, 70-90, 80-90, 1.5-80, 1.6
80, 1.7-80, 1.8-80, 1.9-80, 2-80, 2.1-80, 2.2-80, 2.3-80, 2.4-80, 2.5-80, 2.6-80, 2.7-80, 2.8-80,
2.9-80, 3.0-80, 3.1-80, 3.2-80, 3.3-80, 3.4-80, 3.5-80, 3.6-80, 3.7-80, 3.8-80, 3.9-80, 4-80, 5-80,
6-80, 7-80, 8-80, 9-80, 10-80, 11-80, 12-80, 13-80, 14-80, 15-80, 16-80, 17-80, 18-80, 19-80,
20-80, 25-80, 30-80, 35-80, 40-80, 45-80, 50-80, 60-80, 70-80, 1.5-70, 1.6-70, 1.7-70, 1.8-70,
1.9-70, 2-70, 2.1-70, 2.2-70, 2.3-70, 2.4-70, 2.5-70, 2.6-70, 2.7-70, 2.8-70, 2.9-70, 3.0-70, 3.1
70, 3.2-70, 3.3-70, 3.4-70, 3.5-70, 3.6-70, 3.7-70, 3.8-70, 3.9-70, 4-70, 5-70, 6-70, 7-70, 8-70, 9
70, 10-70, 11-70, 12-70, 13-70, 14-70, 15-70, 16-70, 17-70, 18-70, 19-70, 20-70, 25-70, 30-70,
35-70, 40-70, 45-70, 50-70, 60-70, 1.5-60, 1.6-60, 1.7-60, 1.8-60, 1.9-60, 2-60, 2.1-60, 2.2-60,
2.3-60, 2.4-60, 2.5-60, 2.6-60, 2.7-60, 2.8-60, 2.9-60, 3.0-60, 3.1-60, 3.2-60, 3.3-60, 3.4-60, 3.5
60, 3.6-60, 3.7-60, 3.8-60, 3.9-60, 4-60, 5-60, 6-60, 7-60, 8-60, 9-60, 10-60, 11-60, 12-60, 13-60,
14-60, 15-60, 16-60, 17-60, 18-60, 19-60, 20-60, 25-60, 30-60, 35-60, 40-60, 45-60, 50-60, 1.5
50, 1.6-50, 1.7-50, 1.8-50, 1.9-50, 2-50, 2.1-50, 2.2-50, 2.3-50, 2.4-50, 2.5-50, 2.6-50, 2.7-50,
2.8-50, 2.9-50, 3.0-50, 3.1-50, 3.2-50, 3.3-50, 3.4-50, 3.5-50, 3.6-50, 3.7-50, 3.8-50, 3.9-50, 4
50, 5-50, 6-50, 7-50, 8-50, 9-50, 10-50, 11-50, 12-50, 13-50, 14-50, 15-50, 16-50, 17-50, 18-50,
19-50, 20-50, 25-50, 30-50, 35-50, 40-50, 1.5-40, 1.6-40, 1.7-40, 1.8-40, 1.9-40, 2-40, 2.1-40,
2.2-40, 2.3-40, 2.4-40, 2.5-40, 2.6-40, 2.7-40, 2.8-40, 2.9-40, 3.0-40, 3.1-40, 3.2-40, 3.3-40, 3.4
40, 3.5-40, 3.6-40, 3.7-40, 3.8-40, 3.9-40, 4-40, 5-40, 6-40, 7-40, 8-40, 9-40, 10-40, 11-40, 12
40, 13-40, 14-40, 15-40, 16-40, 17-40, 18-40, 19-40, 20-40, 25-40, 30-40, 1.5-30, 1.6-30, 1.7-30,
1.8-30, 1.9-30, 2-30, 2.1-30, 2.2-30, 2.3-30, 2.4-30, 2.5-30, 2.6-30, 2.7-30, 2.8-30, 2.9-30, 3.0
30, 3.1-30, 3.2-30, 3.3-30, 3.4-30, 3.5-30, 3.6-30, 3.7-30, 3.8-30, 3.9-30, 4-30, 5-30, 6-30, 7-30,
8-30, 9-30, 10-30, 11-30, 12-30, 13-30, 14-30, 15-30, 16-30, 17-30, 18-30, 19-30, 20-30, 1.5-20,
1.6-20, 1.7-20, 1.8-20, 1.9-20, 2-20, 2.1-20, 2.2-20, 2.3-20, 2.4-20, 2.5-20, 2.6-20, 2.7-20, 2.8
20, 2.9-20, 3.0-20, 3.1-20, 3.2-20, 3.3-20, 3.4-20, 3.5-20, 3.6-20, 3.7-20, 3.8-20, 3.9-20, 4-20, 5
20, 6-20, 7-20, 8-20, 9-20, 10-20, 11-20, 12-20, 13-20, 14-20, 15-20, 1.5-15, 1.6-15, 1.7-15, 1.8
15, 1.9-15, 2-15, 2.1-15, 2.2-15, 2.3-15, 2.4-15, 2.5-15, 2.6-15, 2.7-15, 2.8-15, 2.9-15, 3.0-15,
                                                 91

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
3.1-15, 3.2-15, 3.3-15, 3.4-15, 3.5-15, 3.6-15, 3.7-15, 3.8-15, 3.9-15, 4-15, 5-15, 6-15, 7-15, 8
 15, 9-15, 10-15, 11-15, 12-15, 13-15, 14-15, 1.5-10, 1.6-10, 1.7-10, 1.8-10, 1.9-10, 2-10, 2.1-10,
2.2-10, 2.3-10, 2.4-10, 2.5-10, 2.6-10, 2.7-10, 2.8-10, 2.9-10, 3.0-10, 3.1-10, 3.2-10, 3.3-10, 3.4
 10, 3.5-10, 3.6-10, 3.7-10, 3.8-10, 3.9-10, 4-10, 5-10, 6-10, 7-10, 8-10, 9-10, 1.5-9, 1.6-9, 1.7-9,
 1.8-9, 1.9-9, 2-9, 2.1-9, 2.2-9, 2.3-9, 2.4-9, 2.5-9, 2.6-9, 2.7-9, 2.8-9, 2.9-9, 3.0-9, 3.1-9, 3.2-9,
3.3-9, 3.4-9, 3.5-9, 3.6-9, 3.7-9, 3.8-9, 3.9-9, 4-9, 5-9, 6-9, 7-9, 8-9, 1.5-8, 1.6-8, 1.7-8, 1.8-8,
 1.9-8, 2-8, 2.1-8, 2.2-8, 2.3-8, 2.4-8, 2.5-8, 2.6-8, 2.7-8, 2.8-8, 2.9-8, 3.0-8, 3.1-8, 3.2-8, 3.3-8,
3.4-8, 3.5-8, 3.6-8, 3.7-8, 3.8-8, 3.9-8, 4-8, 5-8, 6-8, 7-8, 1.5-7, 1.6-7, 1.7-7, 1.8-7, 1.9-7, 2-7,
2.1-7, 2.2-7, 2.3-7, 2.4-7, 2.5-7, 2.6-7, 2.7-7, 2.8-7, 2.9-7, 3.0-7, 3.1-7, 3.2-7, 3.3-7, 3.4-7, 3.5-7,
3.6-7, 3.7-7, 3.8-7, 3.9-7, 4-7, 5-7, 6-7, 1.5-6, 1.6-6, 1.7-6, 1.8-6, 1.9-6, 2-6, 2.1-6, 2.2-6, 2.3-6,
2.4-6, 2.5-6, 2.6-6, 2.7-6, 2.8-6, 2.9-6, 3.0-6, 3.1-6, 3.2-6, 3.3-6, 3.4-6, 3.5-6, 3.6-6, 3.7-6, 3.8-6,
3.9-6, 4-6, 5-6, 1.5-5, 1.6-5, 1.7-5, 1.8-5, 1.9-5, 2-5, 2.1-5, 2.2-5, 2.3-5, 2.4-5, 2.5-5, 2.6-5, 2.7-5,
2.8-5, 2.9-5, 3.0-5, 3.1-5, 3.2-5, 3.3-5, 3.4-5, 3.5-5, 3.6-5, 3.7-5, 3.8-5, 3.9-5, 4-5, 1.5-4, 1.6-4,
 1.7-4, 1.8-4, 1.9-4, 2-4, 2.1-4, 2.2-4, 2.3-4, 2.4-4, 2.5-4, 2.6-4, 2.7-4, 2.8-4, 2.9-4, 3.0-4, 3.1-4,
3.2-4, 3.3-4, 3.4-4, 3.5-4, 3.6-4, 3.7-4, 3.8-4, 3.9-4, 1.5-3, 1.6-3, 1.7-3, 1.8-3, 1.9-3, 2-3, 2.1-3,
2.2-3, 2.3-3, 2.4-3, 2.5-3, 2.6-3, 2.7-3, 2.8-3, 2.9-3, 1.5-2, 1.6-2, 1.7-2, 1.8-2, or 1.9-2 times
higher than the ability of a wild-type A2M polypeptide to prevent FAC formation.
[0279] One aspect of the invention is a method for determining the enhanced inhibition of a
protease by a variant A2M polypeptide comprising: a) providing a variant A2M polypeptide
comprising a sequence of one or more of SEQ ID NOs 5-66; b) contacting the variant A2M
polypeptide with the protease and a substrate cleaved by the protease; c) contacting a wild-type
A2M polypeptide with the protease and the substrate cleaved by the protease; and d) comparing
the amount of cleavage of the substrate from step b) to the amount of cleavage of the substrate
from step c), thereby determining the enhanced inhibition of the protease by the variant A2M
polypeptide.
[0280] Enzymatic glycoconjugation reactions can be targeted to glycosylation sites and to
residues that are attached to glycosylation sites. The targeted glycosylation sites can be sites
native to a wild-type A2M protein, native to a variant A2M polypeptide or, alternatively, they
can be introduced into a wild-type A2M or variant A2M polypeptide by mutation. Thus, a
method for increasing the in vivo half-life of a variant A2M polypeptide is provided by the
methods of the invention.
[0281] A variant A2M polypeptide can include an amino acid sequence that mutated to insert,
remove or relocate one or more glycosylation site in the protein. When a site is added or
relocated, it is not present or not present in a selected location in the wild-type A2M peptide. The
                                                     92

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
mutant glycosylation site can be a point of attachment for a modified glycosyl residue that can be
enzymatically conjugated to the glycosylation site. Using the methods of the invention, the
glycosylation site can be shifted to any efficacious position on the peptide. For example, if the
native glycosylation site is sufficiently proximate or within the bait region of variant A2M
polypeptide peptide that conjugation interferes with the ability to bind a protease, inhibit a
protease, or a combination thereof, it is within the scope of the invention to engineer a variant
A2M polypeptide that includes a glycosylation site as modified or removed from the bait as
necessary to provide a biologically active variant A2M polypeptide.
[0282] Any glycosyltransferase or method of their use known in the art can be used for in vitro
enzymatic synthesis of variant A2M polypeptides with custom designed glycosylation patterns,
various glycosyl structures, or a combination thereof possible. See, for example, U.S. Patent
Nos. 5,876,980; 6,030,815; 5,728,554; 5,922,577; and WO/9831826; US2003180835; and WO
03/031464.
[0283] The present invention provides methods of improving or lengthening the in vivo half
lives of variant A2M polypeptides by conjugating a water-soluble polymer to the variant A2M
polypeptides through an intact glycosyl linking group. In an exemplary embodiment, covalent
attachment of polymers, such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), to such variant A2M polypeptides
affords variant A2M polypeptides having in vivo residence times, and pharmacokinetic and
pharmacodynamic properties, enhanced relative to the unconjugated variant A2M polypeptide.
[0284] The polymer backbone of the water-soluble polymer can be poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG).
However, it should be understood that other related polymers are also suitable for use in the
practice of this invention and that the use of the term PEG or poly(ethylene glycol) is intended to
be inclusive and not exclusive in this respect. The term PEG includes poly(ethylene glycol) in
any of its forms, including alkoxy PEG, difunctional PEG, multiarmed PEG, forked PEG,
branched PEG, pendent PEG (i.e. PEG or related polymers having one or more functional groups
pendent to the polymer backbone), or PEG with degradable linkages therein. The polymer
backbone can be linear or branched. Branched polymer backbones are generally known in the
art. Typically, a branched polymer has a central branch core moiety and a plurality of linear
polymer chains linked to the central branch core. PEG is commonly used in branched forms that
can be prepared by addition of ethylene oxide to various polyols, such as glycerol,
pentaerythritol and sorbitol. The central branch moiety can also be derived from several amino
acids, such as lysine. The branched poly(ethylene glycol) can be represented in general form as
R(-PEG-OH)n in which R represents the core moiety, such as glycerol or pentaerythritol, and n
represents the number of arms. Many other polymers are also suitable for the invention.
                                                  93

 WO 2015/031654                                                                        PCT/US2014/053223
Examples of suitable polymers include, but are not limited to, other poly(alkylene glycols), such
as poly(propylene glycol) ("PPG"), copolymers of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol and the
like, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol), polyvinylpyrrolidone),
poly(hydroxypropylmethacrylamide), poly(a.-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol),
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, poly(N-acryloylmorpholine) and copolymers, terpolymers, and
mixtures thereof. Although the molecular weight of each chain of the polymer backbone can
vary, it is typically in the range of from about 100 Da to about 100,000 Da often from about
6,000 Da to about 80,000 Da.
[0285] A variant A2M polypeptide can further comprise PEG. A variant A2M polypeptide can
have one or more mutant or modified glycosylation sites. The modified glycosylation sites can
comprise PEG. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide can have 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
 13, 14, 15, or more mutant or modified glycosylation sites. The conjugation or addition of PEG
to a variant A2M polypeptide with one or more modified or abnormal glycosylation sites can
result in a variant A2M polypeptide with a longer half-life than the half-life of a wild-type A2M
protein without PEG when disposed within or on a wound of a subject, such as a chronic wound
of a subject. The conjugation or addition of PEG to a variant A2M polypeptide with one or more
modified or abnormal glycosylation sites can result in a variant A2M polypeptide with a longer
half-life than the half-life of a variant A2M polypeptide without one or more modified
glycosylation sites without PEG when disposed w within or on a wound of a subject, such as a
chronic wound of a subject. The conjugation or addition of PEG to a variant A2M polypeptide
with one or more modified or abnormal glycosylation sites can result in a variant A2M
polypeptide with a longer half-life than the half-life of a variant A2M polypeptide with one or
more modified glycosylation sites without PEG when within or on a wound of a subject, such as
a chronic wound of a subject. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide with one or more
modified or abnormal glycosylation sites with PEG can have half-life that is 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,
 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500,
600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 times the half-life of a wild type A2M protein without PEG, a
variant A2M polypeptide with one or more modified glycosylation sites without PEG, or a
variant A2M polypeptide without one or more modified glycosylation sites without PEG. For
example, a variant A2M polypeptide with one or more modified or abnormal glycosylation sites
with PEG can have half-life that is 2 times the half-life of a wild type A2M protein composition
with one or more modified or abnormal glycosylation sites without PEG when disposed within
or on a wound of a subject, such as a chronic wound of a subject.
                                                        94

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
[0286] The present invention further provides isolated polypeptides encoded by the nucleic acid
fragments of the present invention or by degenerate variants of the nucleic acid fragments of the
present invention. By "degenerate variant" can be intended nucleotide fragments which differ
from a nucleic acid fragment of the present invention (e.g., an ORF) by nucleotide sequence but,
due to the degeneracy of the genetic code, encode an identical polypeptide sequence. Preferred
nucleic acid fragments of the present invention are the ORFs that encode proteins.
[0287] Fragments of the A2M variants of the present invention which are capable of exhibiting
biological activity are also encompassed by the present invention. Fragments of the A2M
variants can be in linear form or they can be cyclized using known methods, for example, as
described in H. U. Saragovi, et al., Bio/Technology 10, 773-778 (1992) and in R. S. McDowell,
et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 114, 9245-9253 (1992), both of which are incorporated herein by
reference. Such fragments can be fused to carrier molecules such as immunoglobulins for many
purposes, including increasing the valency of protein binding sites. The present invention also
provides both full-length and mature forms (for example, without a signal sequence or precursor
sequence) of the disclosed A2M variants. The protein coding sequence can be identified in the
sequence listing by translation of the disclosed nucleotide sequences. The mature form of such
A2M variants can be obtained by expression of a full-length polynucleotide in a suitable
mammalian cell or other host cell. The sequence of the mature form of the A2M variants can be
also determinable from the amino acid sequence of the full-length form. Where A2M variants of
the present invention are membrane bound, soluble forms of the A2M variants are also provided.
In such forms, part or all of the regions causing the A2M variants to be membrane bound are
deleted so that the A2M variants are fully secreted from the cell in which it can be expressed.
A2M variant compositions of the present invention can further comprise an acceptable carrier,
such as a hydrophilic, e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable, carrier.
Variant A2M Polynucleotide Compositions
[0288] As used herein, "A2M polynucleotide," when used with reference to SEQ ID NOs: 1 or 2,
means the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2, or fragments thereof, as well as any
nucleic acid variants which include one or more insertions, deletions, mutations, or a
combination thereof. The insertions, deletions, and mutations are preferably within the
polynucleotide sequence encoding the bait region of the A2M protein. Similarly, "A2M cDNA",
"A2M coding sequence" or "A2M coding nucleic acid", when used with reference to SEQ ID
NOs: 1 or 2, means the nucleic acid sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 1 or 2, or fragments thereof, as
well as nucleic acid variants which include one or more mutations, insertions, deletions, or a
combination thereof. The A2M polynucleotides, or fragments thereof, can be manipulated using
                                                 95

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
conventional techniques in molecular biology so as to create variant A2M recombinant
polynucleotide constructs, encoding the variant A2M polypeptides that express variant A2M
polypeptides. Variant A2M polynucleotides include nucleotide sequences having at least 99%,
98%, 97%, 96%, 95%, 94%, 93%, 92%, 91%, 90%, 89%, 88%, 87%, 86%, or 85% sequence
identity to SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2. A2M coding sequences includes nucleotide sequences having
at least 99%, 98%, 97%, 96%, 95%, 94%, 93%, 92%, 91%, 90%, 89%, 88%, 87%, 86%, or 85%
sequence identity to any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2.
[0289] In one aspect, provided herein is a variant A2M polynucleotide nucleotide composition.
Numerous polynucleotide sequences encoding wild-type A2M proteins from various organisms
have been determined. Any A2M DNA sequence identified can be subsequently obtained by
chemical synthesis and/or a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique such as overlap
extension method. For a short sequence, completely de novo synthesis may be sufficient;
whereas further isolation of full length coding sequence from a human cDNA or genomic library
using a synthetic probe may be necessary to obtain a larger gene. Alternatively, a nucleic acid
sequence encoding an A2M polypeptide can be isolated from a human cDNA or genomic DNA
library using standard cloning techniques such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), where
homology-based primers can often be derived from a known nucleic acid sequence encoding an
A2M polypeptide.
[0290] cDNA libraries suitable for obtaining a coding sequence for a wild-type A2M
polypeptide can be obtained commercially or can be constructed. The general methods of
isolating mRNA, making cDNA by reverse transcription, ligating cDNA into a recombinant
vector, transfecting into a recombinant host for propagation, screening, and cloning are well
known. Upon obtaining an amplified segment of nucleotide sequence by PCR, the segment can
be further used as a probe to isolate the full-length polynucleotide sequence encoding the wild
type A2M protein from the cDNA library. A similar procedure can be followed to obtain a full
length sequence encoding a wild-type A2M protein from a human genomic library. Human
genomic libraries are commercially available or can be constructed according to various art
recognized methods. In general, to construct a genomic library, the DNA is first extracted from a
tissue where a peptide is likely found. The DNA is then either mechanically sheared or
enzymatically digested to yield fragments of about 12-20 kb in length. The fragments are
subsequently separated by gradient centrifugation from polynucleotide fragments of undesired
sizes and are inserted in bacteriophage a vectors. These vectors and phages are packaged in vitro.
Recombinant phages are analyzed by plaque hybridization.
                                                   96

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
[0291] Based on sequence homology, degenerate oligonucleotides can be designed as primer sets
and PCR can be performed under suitable conditions to amplify a segment of nucleotide
sequence from a cDNA or genomic library. Using the amplified segment as a probe, the full
length nucleic acid encoding a wild- type A2M protein can be obtained
[0292] Upon acquiring a nucleic acid sequence encoding a wild-type A2M protein, the coding
sequence can be subcloned into a vector, for instance, an expression vector, so that a
recombinant wild-type A2M protein can be expressed mutated into a variant A2M polypeptide of
the invention produced from the resulting construct. Further modifications to the wild-type A2M
protein coding sequence, for example, nucleotide substitutions, may be subsequently made to
alter the bait region of the A2M protein.
[0293] The present invention further provides isolated polypeptides encoded by the
polynucleotides, or fragments thereof, of the present invention or by degenerate variants of the
polynucleotides, or fragments thereof, of the present invention. Preferred polynucleotides, or
fragments thereof, of the present invention are the ORFs that encode A2M variants.
[0294] A variant A2M polynucleotide can be made by mutating the polynucleotide sequence
encoding a wild-type A2M protein. This can be achieved by using any known mutagenesis
methods. Exemplary modifications to a wild-type A2M polynucleotide for accepting variant bait
regions described herein include those in SEQ ID NO 2. Exemplary modifications to an A2M
nucleotide include inserting or substituting a nucleotide sequence encoding a variant bait region
of SEQ ID NO 5-66 into the wild-type A2M polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and the
variant A2M acceptor polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 2. Mutagenesis procedures can be
used separately or in combination to produce variants of a set of nucleic acids, and hence
variants of encoded polypeptides. Kits for mutagenesis are commercially available.
[0295] In one aspect, provided herein are methods of making any of the variant A2M
polynucleotides. A method of making a variant A2M polynucleotide can comprise inserting or
substituting a variant bait region into a wild-type A2M polynucleotide sequence or substantially
similar sequence. The substantially similar sequence can be SEQ ID NO 2. One aspect of the
invention is a method for making a variant A2M polynucleotide comprising: a) providing a
vector containing a variant A2M polynucleotide comprising a sequence of SEQ ID NO 2; b)
digesting the vector containing a variant A2M polynucleotide with restriction endonucleases to
form a linear vector; c) ligating one end of the one or more polynucleotides encoding one or
more of the non-natural bait regions of SEQ ID NOs 5-66 to one end of the linear vector; and d)
ligating the other end of the one or more polynucleotides encoding one or more of the non
natural bait regions of SEQ ID NOs 5-66 to the other end of the linear vector, thereby forming a
                                                  97

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
vector containing a variant A2M polynucleotide comprising the non-natural bait regions of SEQ
ID NOs 5-66.
Protein Production
[0296] A variety of methodologies known in the art can be utilized to obtain any one of the
isolated A2M variant proteins of the present invention. At the simplest level, the amino acid
sequence can be synthesized using commercially available peptide synthesizers. Such
polypeptides can be synthesized with or without a methionine on the amino terminus.
Chemically synthesized polypeptides can be oxidized using methods set forth in these references
to form disulfide bridges. The synthetically constructed A2M variant sequences, by virtue of
sharing primary, secondary or tertiary structural and/or conformational characteristics with A2M
variants can possess biological properties in common therewith, including protease inhibitory
activity. This technique can be particularly useful in producing small peptides and fragments of
larger polypeptides. Fragments are useful, for example, in generating antibodies against the A2M
variants. Thus, they can be employed as biologically active or immunological substitutes for
natural, purified A2M variants in screening of therapeutic compounds and in immunological
processes for the development of antibodies.
[0297] The A2M variant polypeptides of the present invention can alternatively be purified from
cells which have been altered to express the desired A2M variant. As used herein, a cell can be
said to be altered to express a desired A2M variant polypeptide or protein when the cell, through
genetic manipulation, can be made to produce a A2M variant polypeptide which it normally does
not produce or which the cell normally produces at a lower level. One skilled in the art can
readily adapt procedures for introducing and expressing either recombinant or synthetic
sequences into eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells in order to generate a cell which produces one of
the A2M variant polypeptides of the present invention.
[0298] A variant A2M polypeptide can be a recombinant protein, or fragments thereof, and can
be produced in a host cell or in vitro system. Recombinant polypeptides and protein promoters
can be inserted in such a manner that it can be operatively produced in a host cell, for example, a
bacterial culture or lower eukaryotes such as yeast or insects or in prokaryotes or any host know
in the art. A variant A2M recombinant protein can be produced in a bacterium, yeast, fungi,
insect, or mammalian host cell, or a cell free system. For example, a variant A2M polypeptide
can be produced in Escherichiacoli, Bacillus subtilis, Salmonella typhimurium,
Corynebacterium,Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomycespombe Kluyveromyces
strains, Candida, Pichiapastoris,baculovirus-infected insect cells, or mammalian cells such as
COS cells, BHK cells, 293 cells, 3T3 cells, NSO hybridoma cells, baby hamster kidney (BHK)
                                                 98

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
cells, PER.C6TM human cells, HEK293 cells or Cricetulus griseus (CHO) cells. A variant A2M
polypeptide can be produced by transient expression, stable cell lines, BacMam-mediated
transient transduction, or cell-free protein production.
[0299] The variant A2M polypeptides can also be produced by operably linking the isolated
variant A2M polynucleotides to suitable control sequences in one or more insect expression
vectors, and employing an insect expression system. Materials and methods for
baculovirus/insect cell expression systems are commercially available in kit form from, e.g.,
Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif., U.S.A. (the MaxBatm kit), and such methods are well known in
the art, as described in Summers and Smith, Texas Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No.
 1555 (1987), incorporated herein by reference.
[0300] In mammalian host cells, a number of viral-based expression systems can be utilized. In
cases where an adenovirus is used as an expression vector, the variant A2M nucleotide sequence
of interest can be ligated to an adenovirus transcription/translation control complex, for example,
the late promoter and tripartite leader sequence. This chimeric gene can then be inserted in the
adenovirus genome by in vitro or in vivo recombination. Insertion in a non-essential region of
the viral genome can result in a recombinant virus that is viable and capable of expressing the
variant A2M gene product in infected hosts. Specific initiation signals can also be required for
efficient translation of inserted nucleotide sequences. These signals include the ATG initiation
codon and adjacent sequences. In cases where an entire variant A2M gene or cDNA, including
its own initiation codon and adjacent sequences, is inserted into the appropriate expression
vector, for example, a pJ608 mammalian expression vector no additional translational control
signals are needed. Exogenous translational control signals, such as the ATG initiation codon,
can be provided.
[0301] Host cells can be genetically engineered to contain the variant A2M polynucleotides of
the invention. For example, such host cells can contain variant A2M polynucleotides introduced
into the host cell using known transformation, transfection or infection methods. As used herein,
a cell capable of expressing a variant A2M polynucleotide can be "transformed." The variant
A2M polypeptides of the invention can be prepared by culturing transformed host cells under
culture conditions suitable to express the recombinant protein. Any procedure for introducing
foreign nucleotide sequences into host cells may be used. Non-limiting examples include the use
of calcium phosphate transfection, transfection, DEAE, dextran-mediated transfection,
microinjection, lipofection, polybrene, protoplast fusion, electroporation (Davis, L. et al., Basic
Methods in Molecular Biology (1986)), liposomes, microinjection, plasma vectors, viral vectors,
and any other well-known methods for introducing cloned genomic DNA, cDNA, synthetic
                                                  99

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
DNA, or other foreign genetic material into a host cell. A genetic engineering procedure capable
of successfully introducing at least one gene into the host cell capable of expressing the variant
A2M polynucleotide can be used.
[0302] The present invention still further provides host cells engineered to express the variant
A2M polynucleotides of the invention, wherein the variant A2M polynucleotides are operative
with a regulatory sequence heterologous to the host cell which drives expression of the variant
A2M polynucleotides in the cell. Knowledge of A2M-like DNA allows for modification of cells
to permit, or increase, expression of A2M-like polypeptide. Cells can be modified, for example,
by homologous recombination, to provide increased variant A2M polypeptide expression by
replacing, in whole or in part, the naturally occurring A2M derived from the SV40 viral genome,
for example, SV40 macroglobulin-like promoter with all or part of a heterologous promoter so
that the cells' variant A2M sites can be used to provide the required non-transcribed polypeptide
and can be expressed at higher levels.
[0303] For long-term, high-yield production of recombinant variant A2M polypeptides, stable
expression is preferred. For example, cell lines that stably express the variant A2M sequences
described herein can be engineered. Rather than using expression vectors that contain viral
origins of replication, host cells can be transformed with DNA controlled by appropriate
expression control elements (e.g., promoter, enhancer sequences, transcription terminators,
polyadenylation sites, etc.), and a selectable marker. Following the introduction of the foreign
DNA, engineered cells are allowed to grow for 1-2 days in an enriched media, and then are
switched to a selective media. The selectable marker in the recombinant plasmid confers
resistance to the selection and allows cells to stably integrate the plasmid into their chromosomes
and grow to form foci which in turn are cloned and expanded into cell lines. This method is
advantageously used to engineer cell lines which express the variant A2M gene product. Such
engineered cell lines are particularly useful in screening and evaluation of compounds that affect
the endogenous activity of the variant A2M gene product. A number of selection systems can be
used, including but not limited to the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase, hypoxanthine
guanine phosphoribosyltransferase, and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase genes can be
employed in tk-, hgprt- or aprt- cells, respectively. Also, antimetabolite resistance can be used as
the basis of selection for the following genes: dhfr, which confers resistance to methotrexate;
gpt, which confers resistance to mycophenolic acid; neo, which confers resistance to the
aminoglycoside G-418; and hygro, which confers resistance to hygromycin.
[0304] Variant A2M polynucleotide sequences can be engineered so as to modify processing or
expression of the protein. For example, and not by way of limitation, the variant A2M
                                                   100

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
polynucleotides can be combined with a promoter sequence and/or ribosome binding site, or a
signal sequence can be inserted upstream of variant A2M polynucleotide sequences to permit
secretion of the variant A2M polypeptide and thereby facilitate harvesting or bioavailability.
Additionally, a variant A2M polynucleotide can be mutated in vitro or in vivo, to create and/or
destroy translation, initiation, and/or termination sequences, or to create variations in coding
regions and/or form new restriction sites or destroy preexisting ones, or to facilitate further in
vitro modification. Any technique for mutagenesis known in the art can be used, including but
not limited to, in vitro site-directed mutagenesis.
[0305] Further, nucleic acids encoding other proteins or domains of other proteins can be joined
to nucleic acids encoding variant A2M polypeptides or fragments thereof so as to create a fusion
protein. Nucleotides encoding fusion proteins can include, but are not limited to, a full length
variant or wild-type A2M protein, a truncated variant or wild-type A2M protein or a peptide
fragment of a variant or wild type A2M protein fused to an unrelated protein or peptide, such as
for example, a transmembrane sequence, which anchors the A2M peptide fragment to the cell
membrane; an Ig Fc domain which increases the stability and half-life of the resulting fusion
protein; maltose binding protein (MBP), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) or thioredoxin (TRX),
a His tag, an enzyme, fluorescent protein, luminescent protein which can be used as a marker, for
example, an A2M-Green Fluorescent Protein fusion protein. The fusion proteins can be used for
affinity purification.
[0306] The variant A2M nucleic acids and polypeptides can also be expressed in organisms so as
to create a transgenic organism. Desirable transgenic plant systems having one or more of these
sequences include Arabadopsis, Maize, and Chlamydomonas. Desirable insect systems having
one or more of the variant A2M polynucleotides and/or polypeptides include, for example, D.
melanogaster and C. elegans. Animals of any species, including, but not limited to, amphibians,
reptiles, birds, mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, pigs, micro-pigs, goats, dogs, cats, and non-human
primates, e.g., baboons, monkeys, and chimpanzees can be used to generate variant A2M
containing transgenic animals. Transgenic organisms desirably exhibit germline transfer of
variant A2M nucleic acids and polypeptides described herein.
[0307] A variety of methodologies known in the art can be utilized to obtain any one of the
isolated polypeptides or proteins of the present invention. At the simplest level, the amino acid
sequence can be synthesized using commercially available peptide synthesizers. The
synthetically constructed protein sequences, by virtue of sharing primary, secondary or tertiary
structural and/or conformational characteristics with proteins can possess biological properties in
common therewith, including protein activity. This technique can be particularly useful in
                                                    101

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
producing small peptides and fragments of larger polypeptides. Fragments are useful, for
example, in generating antibodies against the native polypeptide. Thus, they can be employed as
biologically active or immunological substitutes for natural, purified proteins in screening of
therapeutic compounds and in immunological processes for the development of antibodies. The
polypeptides and proteins of the present invention can alternatively be purified from cells which
have been altered to express the desired polypeptide or protein. As used herein, a cell can be said
to be altered to express a desired polypeptide or protein when the cell, through genetic
manipulation, can be made to produce a polypeptide or protein which it normally does not
produce or which the cell normally produces at a lower level. One skilled in the art can readily
adapt procedures for introducing and expressing either recombinant or synthetic sequences into
eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells in order to generate a cell which produces one of the polypeptides
or proteins of the present invention.
[0308] The invention also relates to methods for producing a polypeptide comprising growing a
culture of host cells in a suitable culture medium, and purifying the protein from the cells or the
culture in which the cells are grown. For example, the methods can include a process for
producing a polypeptide in which a host cell containing a suitable expression vector that includes
a polynucleotide of the invention can be cultured under conditions that allow expression of the
encoded polypeptide. The polypeptide can be recovered from the culture, conveniently from the
culture medium, or from a lysate prepared from the host cells and further purified. Preferred
embodiments include those in which the protein produced by such process can be a full length or
mature form of the protein, such as A2M. In an alternative method, the polypeptide or protein
can be purified from bacterial cells which naturally produce the polypeptide or protein. One
skilled in the art can readily follow known methods for isolating polypeptides and proteins in
order to obtain one of the isolated polypeptides or proteins of the present invention. These
include, but are not limited to, immunochromatography, HPLC, size-exclusion chromatography,
ion-exchange chromatography, and immuno-affinity chromatography. See, e.g., Scopes, Protein
Purification:Principlesand Practice,Springer-Verlag (1994); Sambrook, et al., in Molecular
Cloning: A LaboratoryManual; Ausubel et al., CurrentProtocolsin Molecular Biology.
Polypeptide fragments that retain biological or immunological activity include fragments
comprising greater than about 100 amino acids, or greater than about 200 amino acids, and
fragments that encode specific protein domains. The purified polypeptides can be used in in vitro
binding assays which are well known in the art to identify molecules which bind to the
polypeptides. These molecules include but are not limited to, for example, small molecules,
molecules from combinatorial libraries, antibodies or other proteins. The molecules identified in
                                                 102

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
a binding assay can then be tested for antagonist or agonist activity in in vivo tissue culture or
animal models that are well known in the art. In brief, the molecules can be titrated into a
plurality of cell cultures or animals and then tested for either cell or animal death or prolonged
survival of the animal or cells.
[0309] The resulting expressed variant A2M polypeptides can then be purified from a culture,
for example, from culture medium or cell extracts, using known purification processes, such as
affinity chromatography, gel filtration, and ion exchange chromatography. The purification of
the variant A2M polypeptides can also include an affinity column containing agents which will
bind to the protein; one or more column steps over such affinity resins as concanavalin A
agarose, heparin-toyopearlP     or Cibacron blue 3GA Sepharose m ; one or more steps involving
hydrophobic interaction chromatography using such resins as phenyl ether, butyl ether, or propyl
ether; or immunoaffinity chromatography. Alternatively, the protein of the invention can also be
expressed in a form which will facilitate purification. For example, a protein can be expressed as
a fusion protein, such as those of maltose binding protein (MBP), glutathione-S-transferase
(GST) or thioredoxin (TRX), or as a His tag. Kits for expression and purification of such fusion
proteins are commercially available from New England BioLab (Beverly, Mass.), Pharmacia
(Piscataway, N.J.) and Invitrogen, respectively. The protein can also be tagged with an epitope
and subsequently purified by using a specific antibody directed to such epitope. One such
epitope ("FLAG@") is commercially available from Kodak (New Haven, Conn.). Finally, one or
more reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) steps employing
hydrophobic RP-HPLC media, for example, silica gel having pendant methyl or other aliphatic
groups, can be employed to further purify the protein. Any combination of the foregoing
purification procedures can also be employed to provide a substantially homogeneous isolated or
purified recombinant variant A2M polypeptide. The variant A2M polypeptides purified can be
substantially free of other mammalian proteins and can be defined in accordance with the present
invention as an "isolated protein."
Agents for Inhibition of FAC Formation and Treatment of Chronic Wounds
[0310] Also provided herein are methods to inhibit the one or more steps of the fibronectin
aggrecan complex formation cycle (FACC) in a human with a condition or disease, such as a
chronic wound. An agent can be administered to a subject with a condition or disease. An agent
can be wild-type A2M protein or a composition described herein, such as a purified form of
A2M, or an A2M enriched sample, or a variant A2M polypeptide as described herein. An agent
can be an agent that is not a purified form of A2M concentrated from autologous blood. An
agent can be an inhibitor or an antagonist. An inhibitor or antagonist can be a compound or
                                                 103

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
composition that directly or indirectly, partially or totally blocks activity, decreases, prevents,
delays activation, inactivates, desensitizes, or down regulates the activity or expression of a
target biomarker. Antagonists can be, for example, polypeptides, such as antibodies, and soluble
receptors, as well as nucleic acids such as siRNA or antisense RNA, as well as naturally
occurring and synthetic biomarker antagonists, including small chemical molecules.
[0311] An agent can be compound that has a pharmacological activity. Agents can include
compositions described herein or compounds that are known drugs, compounds for which
pharmacological activity has been identified but that are undergoing further therapeutic
evaluation, and compounds that are members of collections and libraries that are to be screened
for a pharmacological activity. An agent can be organic or inorganic chemical such a peptide,
protein, including antibodies, small molecules and natural products.
[0312] An agent can comprise an antibody. An antibody can be a polypeptide comprising a
framework region from an immunoglobulin gene or fragments thereof that specifically binds and
recognizes an antigen. The recognized immunoglobulin genes can include the kappa, lambda,
alpha, gamma, delta, epsilon, and mu constant region genes, as well as the myriad
immunoglobulin variable region genes. Light chains can be classified as either kappa or lambda.
Heavy chains can be classified as gamma, mu, alpha, delta, or epsilon, which in turn define the
immunoglobulin classes, IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD and IgE, respectively. An antibody can encompass
plural referents unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. In some instances a plurality of the
antibodies can belong to the same antibody species, e.g., in the case of monoclonal antibodies,
while in some cases different antibodies species are encompassed the by phrase "an antibody",
e.g., a polyclonal antibodies. An exemplary immunoglobulin (antibody) structural unit can
comprise a tetramer. Each tetramer can be composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide
chains, each pair having one "light" (about 25 kDa) and one "heavy" chain (about 50-70 kDa).
The N-terminus of each chain can define a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino
acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. The terms variable light chain (V,) and
variable heavy chain (VH) can refer to these light and heavy chains respectively. Antibodies can
exist, e.g., as intact immunoglobulins or as a number of well-characterized fragments produced
by digestion with various peptidases. Thus, for example, pepsin digests an antibody below the
disulfide linkages in the hinge region to produce F(ab)'2, a dimer of Fab which itself is a light
chain joined to VH-CH1 by a disulfide bond. The F(ab)'2 may be reduced under mild conditions
to break the disulfide linkage in the hinge region, thereby converting the F(ab)'2 dimer into an
Fab' monomer. The Fab' monomer can be a Fab with part of the hinge region (see Fundamental
Immunology (Paul ed., 3d ed. 1993). While various antibody fragments are defined in terms of
                                                  104

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
the digestion of an intact antibody, one of skill will appreciate that such fragments may be
synthesized de novo either chemically or by using recombinant DNA methodology. An antibody
can also be an antibody fragment either produced by the modification of whole antibodies, or
those synthesized de novo using recombinant DNA methodologies (e.g., single chain Fv) or
those identified using phage display libraries (see, e.g., McCafferty et al., Nature 348:552-554
(1990)). When referring to treatment methods, antibodies that are chimeric, human, humanized
or otherwise specific to the species to be treated can be used.
[0313] An agent can be an antibody that binds to the FAC but not to the individual components
of the complex separately. An agent can comprise an antibody that binds to aggrecan or any
variation thereof, thereby inhibiting formation of the FAC complex. An agent can comprise an
antibody, such as a monoclonal antibody, that binds to aggrecan G3 lectin domain. The antibody
can bind to aggrecan G3 and prevent the formation of FAC and inflammation. An agent can
comprise an antibody that binds to fibronectin or any variant thereof, thereby inhibiting
formation of the FAC complex. An agent can comprise an antibody that binds to a PAMP
receptor recognition domain of aggrecan, a DAMP receptor recognition domain of aggrecan, or
both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells. Other cells can be macrophages,
fibroblast, T-cells, B-cells, neutrophils, platelets, synoviocytes, chondrocytes and other cells
involved in inflammation. An agent can comprise an antibody that binds to a PAMP receptor
recognition domain of fibronectin, a DAMP receptor recognition domain of fibronectin, or both,
thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells.
[0314] An agent that prevents or inhibits FAC formation can be a recombinant aggrecan G3
domain, wherein the domain contains the aggrecan G3 lectin domain and competitively binds to
fibronectin; wherein the domain lacks the Pathogen Associated Molecular Patterns (PAMP) and
the Damage Associated Molecular Patterns (DAMP) receptor recognition domains. Recombinant
aggrecan G3 lectin domain can competitively bind to fibronectin. A recombinant aggrecan G3
domain can lack the cell activation domain and can slow down, inhibit, or prevent FAC
formation and inflammation.
[0315] An agent that prevents or inhibits FAC formation can be a wild-type A2M protein or a
recombinant fibronectin fragment, wherein the fragment comprises a G3 binding domain and
binds to aggrecan, wherein the G3 binding domain the PAMP, receptor recognition domain, the
DAMP receptor recognition domain, or both. A recombinant fibronectin fragment can
competitively bind to aggrecan.
[0316] An agent that prevents or inhibits FAC formation can be a soluble form of the PAMP
receptor or DAMP receptor that binds to the PAMP domain of aggrecan G3, the DAMP domain
                                                   105

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
of aggrecan G3, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells to produce
proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, proteases, or any combination thereof.
[0317] An agent that prevents or inhibits FAC formation can be a soluble form of the PAMP
receptor or DAMP receptor that binds to the PAMP domain of fibronectin, the DAMP domain of
fibronectin, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells to produce
proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, proteases, or any combination thereof. An agent can be
an inhibitor of fibroblast cells and can inhibit production of increased levels fibronectin,
recruitment of other fibroblast cells, or both.
[0318] An agent that prevents or inhibits FAC formation can be a small molecule. A small
molecule can be identified using one or more high-throughput screening methods. A small
molecule can inhibit FAC formation, inhibit activation of monocytes; inhibit increased
production of fibronectin; inhibit recruitment of fibroblast cells; or bind to the DAMP domain of
fibronectin, bind to the DAMP domain of aggrecan G3, bind to the PAMP domain of fibronectin,
or bind to the PAMP domain of aggrecan G3, thereby inhibiting activation of cells to produce
proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, proteases, or any combination thereof. In A small
molecule can inhibit FAC formation by competitively binding to fibronectin or aggrecan. In
some embodiments, the small molecule binds to the FAC complex and resulting in dissociation
or degradation of the FAC complex. Inhibiting the formation of the fibronectin-aggrecan
complex (FAC) can comprise inhibiting one or more steps in FAC formation or a step in the
FAC formation cycle (FACC).
[0319] One or more steps in FAC formation or the FACC can comprise production of fibronectin
in the ECM, production of proteases and metalloproteases, production of inflammatory cytokines
and chemokines, degradation of aggrecan in cartilage, or increasing the aggrecan G3 domain
fragment concentration.
[0320] In any of the methods herein, an agent can be a medicament used to treat chronic wounds
such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers,
arterial insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof. Thus, one can administer to a subject,
along with a composition comprising an elevated concentration of A2M, a variant A2M
polypeptide, or a wild-type A2M protein, an effective amount of one or more other medicament
(where a composition comprising an elevated concentration of A2M or variant A2M
polynucleotide (e.g., compositions described herein) can be a first medicament). The one or more
other medicaments can include, for example, an immunosuppressive agent, a cytokine antagonist
such as a cytokine antibody, an integrin antagonist (e.g., antibody), a corticosteroid, or any
combination thereof. The type of such second medicament can depend on various factors,
                                                  106

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
including the type of chronic wound, extent of the wound, the severity of the wound, the
condition and age of the subject, the type and dose of the first medicament employed, etc.
Examples of such additional medicaments include an immunosuppressive agent (such as
mitoxantrone (NOVANTRONE@), MTX, cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, leflunomide, and
azathioprine), intravenous immunoglobulin (gamma globulin), lymphocyte-depleting therapy
(e.g., mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, CAMPATHTM antibodies, anti-CD4, cladribine, a
polypeptide construct with at least two domains comprising a de-immunized, autoreactive
antigen or its fragment that can be specifically recognized by the Ig receptors of autoreactive B
cells (WO 2003/68822), total body irradiation, and bone marrow transplantation), integrin
antagonist or antibody (e.g., an LFA- 1 antibody such as efalizumab/RAPTIVA@ commercially
available from Genentech, or an alpha 4 integrin antibody such as natalizumab/ANTEGREN@
available from Biogen, or others as noted above), drugs that treat symptoms secondary or related
to chroinc wound healing such as those noted herein, steroids such as corticosteroid (e.g.,
prednisolone, methylprednisolone such as SOLU-MEDROLTM methylprednisolone sodium
succinate for injection, prednisone such as low-dose prednisone, dexamethasone, or
glucocorticoid, e.g., via injection, including systemic corticosteroid therapy), nonlymphocyte
depleting immunosuppressive therapy (e.g., MMF or cyclosporine), a TNF-a. inhibitor such as an
antibody to TNF-a or its receptor or TNFR-Ig (e.g., etanercept), DMARD, NSAID,
plasmapheresis or plasma exchange, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (BACTRIMm,
SEPTRA'), MMF, H2-blockers or proton-pump inhibitors (during the use of potentially
ulcerogenic immunosuppressive therapy), levothyroxine, cyclosporin A (e.g.,
SANDIMMUNE@), somatostatin analogue, a DMARD or NSAID, cytokine 25 antagonist such
as antibody, anti-metabolite, immunosuppressive agent, rehabilitative surgery, radioiodine,
thyroidectomy, anti-IL-6 receptor antagonist/antibody (e.g., ACTEMRAm (tocilizumab)), or
another B-cell antagonist such as BR3-Fc, TACI-Ig, anti-BR3 antibody, anti-CD40 receptor or
anti-CD40 ligand (CD 154), agent blocking CD40-CD40 ligand, epratuzumab (anti-CD22
antibody), lumiliximab (anti-CD23 30 antibody), or anti-CD20 antibody such as rituximab or
2H7 antibody.
Known inhibitors such as chelators of known aggrecanases or MMP's can be administered to a
subject in need thereof in amount effective to inhibit or slow down the release of aggrecan
fragments which in effect will reduce or eliminate the formation of the fibronectin aggrecan
complexes thereby giving relief to the subject from the chronic wound.
Diagnostic Methods
                                                  107

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0321] Methods for detecting biomarkers, such as a wild-type A2M protein, to identify sites in
the subject that are a source of chronic wounds can be used to diagnose, or assist in the diagnosis
be of, subjects with chronic wounds related to the anatomic structure and physiologic function of
the wound. For example, the identification of fibronectin-aggrecan complexes in a biological
sample, such as a biological sample from the wound can be used to diagnose, or assist in the
diagnosis of a chronic wound.
[0322] The amount of a biomarker, such as A2M, that can indicate a specific location in the
subject as a source of a chronic wound for a particular subject can depend on numerous factors,
including, but not limited to, the age, sex, medical history, etc., of the patient, the site that the
biological sample was extracted from, and the assay format used to detect the biomarker. In
some embodiments, the level and/or concentration of A2M in a biological sample may be
quantified or directly compared with a control sample. In some embodiments, the level and/or
concentration of A2M in a biological sample may not be quantified or directly compared with a
control sample, but can rather be detected relative to a "diagnostic absence" or "diagnostic
presence" of A2M.
[0323] A "diagnostic absence" can refer to an amount and/or concentration of A2M in a
biological that indicates the absence or likelihood of the absence of a chronic wound or
inflammation causing pathology or injury at the location from which the sample was taken. A
diagnostic absence can be detectable in a simple assay giving a positive or negative result. A
positive or negative result can be determined based on the amount and/or concentration of A2M
in the biological sample. Detection of a level and/or concentration of A2M corresponding to a
diagnostic absence of A2M indicates the absence of a chronic wound-causing pathology or
injury at the location from which the sample was taken. In some embodiments, a diagnostic
absence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a biological sample from about 0-30pg/ml.
For example, a diagnostic absence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a biological sample
from about 0-30pg/ml, 0-25pg/ml, 0-20pg/ml, 0-15pg/ml, 0-10pg/ml, 0-5pg/ml, 5-30pg/ml, 5
25pg/ml, 5-20pg/ml, 5-15pg/ml, 5-10pg/ml, 10-30pg/ml, 10-25pg/ml, 10-20pg/ml, 10-15pg/ml,
 15-30pg/ml, 15-25pg/ml, 15-20pg/ml, 20-30pg/ml, or 20-25pg/ml. In some embodiments, a
diagnostic absence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a biological sample from about 0
40pg/ml. For example, a diagnostic absence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a
biological sample from about 0-40pg/ml, 5-40pg/ml, 10-40pg/ml, 15-40pg/ml, 20-40pg/ml, 25
40pg/ml, 30-40pg/ml, or 35-40pg/ml.
                                                 108

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
[0324] In some embodiments, a diagnostic absence of A2M in a biological sample can be at least
about 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 500, 1000 or more fold
lower than a control sample.
[0325] A "diagnostic presence" can refer to an amount and/or concentration of A2M in a
biological that indicates the presence or likelihood of the presence of a chronic wound or
inflammation causing pathology or injury at the location from which the sample was taken. A
diagnostic presence can be detectable in a simple assay giving a positive or negative result. A
positive or negative result can be determined based on the amount and/or concentration of A2M
in the biological sample. Detection of a level and/or concentration of A2M corresponding to a
diagnostic presence of A2M indicates the presence of a chronic wound-causing pathology or
injury at the location from which the sample was taken. In some embodiments, a diagnostic
presence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a biological sample of at least about
31 pg/ml, 32pg/ml, 33pg/ml, 34pg/ml, 35pg/ml, 36pg/ml, 37pg/ml, 38pg/ml, or 39pg/ml. In
some embodiments, a diagnostic presence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a biological
sample of at least about 40pg/ml. For example, a diagnostic presence of A2M can be a
concentration of A2M in a biological sample of at least about 45pg/ml, 50pg/ml, 55pg/ml,
60pg/ml, 65pg/ml, 70pg/ml, 75pg/ml, 80pg/ml, 85pg/ml, 90pg/ml, 95pg/ml, 100pg/ml,
110pg/ml, 120pg/ml, 130pg/ml, 140pg/ml, 145pg/ml, 150pg/ml, 160pg/ml, 170pg/ml,
180pg/ml, 190pg/ml, 200pg/ml, 220pg/ml, 240pg/ml, 250pg/ml, 260pg/ml, 280pg/ml,
300pg/ml, 320pg/ml, 340pg/ml, 360pg/ml, 380pg/ml, 400pg/ml, 420pg/ml, 440pg/ml,
460pg/ml, 480pg/ml, 500pg/ml, or more.
[0326] In some embodiments, a diagnostic presence of A2M can be a concentration of A2M in a
biological sample from about 40-500pg/ml. For example, a diagnostic presence of A2M can be a
concentration of A2M in a biological sample from about 50-500pg/ml, 60-500pg/ml, 70
500pg/ml, 80-500pg/ml, 90-500pg/ml, 100 -500 pg/ml, 125-500pg/ml, 150-500pg/ml, 175-500,
200-500pg/ml, 250-500pg/ml, 300-500pg/ml, 400-500pg/ml, 50-60pg/ml, 50-70pg/ml, 50
80pg/ml, 50-90pg/ml, 50-100pg/ml, 50-125pg/ml, 50-150pg/ml, 50-175pg/ml, 50-200pg/ml,
50-250pg/ml, 50-300pg/ml, 50-400pg/ml, 60-70pg/ml, 60-80pg/ml, 60-90pg/ml, 60-100pg/ml,
60-125pg/ml, 60-150pg/ml, 60-175pg/ml, 60-200pg/ml, 60-250pg/ml, 60-300pg/ml, 60
400pg/ml, 70-80pg/ml, 70-90pg/ml, 70-100pg/ml, 70-125pg/ml, 70-150pg/ml, 70-175pg/ml,
70-200pg/ml, 70-250pg/ml, 70-300pg/ml, 70-400pg/ml, 80-90pg/ml, 80-100pg/ml, 80
125pg/ml, 80-150pg/ml, 80-175pg/ml, 80-200pg/ml, 80-250pg/ml, 80-300pg/ml, 80-400pg/ml,
90-100pg/ml, 90-125pg/ml, 90-150pg/ml, 90-175pg/ml, 90-200pg/ml, 90-250pg/ml, 90
300pg/ml, 90-400pg/ml, 100-125pg/ml, 100-150pg/ml, 100-175pg/ml, 100-200pg/ml, 100
                                                    109

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
250pg/ml, 100-300pg/ml, 100-400pg/ml, 125-150pg/ml, 125-175pg/ml, 125-200pg/ml, 125
250pg/ml, 125-300pg/ml, 125-400pg/ml, 150-175pg/ml, 150-200pg/ml, 150-250pg/ml, 150
300pg/ml, 150-400pg/ml, 175-200pg/ml, 175-250pg/ml, 175-300pg/ml, 175-400pg/ml, 200
250pg/ml, 200-300pg/ml, 200-400pg/ml, 250-300pg/ml, 250-400pg/ml, or 300-400pg/ml.
[0327] In some embodiments, a diagnostic presence of A2M in a biological sample can be at
least about 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 500, 1000 or
more fold higher than a control sample.
[0328] The disclosed methods can be used regardless of whether A2M is normally present, or
expected to be present, in a particular control sample. For example, A2M may not be detectable
in certain normal wound samples using a particular assay, resulting in a complete absence of
A2M complexes in a control biological sample. For example, A2M cannot be detectable in
certain normal wound samples (such as, for example, in a synovial fluid sample) using a
particular assay, resulting in a complete absence of A2M in a control biological sample. For such
biological samples, a diagnostic presence can refer to any detectable amount of A2M using that
same assay. In other instances, however, there can be a detectable level of A2M present in
normal or control samples and a diagnostic absence represents a level that can be lower than the
normal level, preferably representing a statistically significant decrease over the normal level.
[0329] Control samples can be samples that are taken from an individual or a group of
individuals not experiencing inflammation or a chronic wound, such as pressure ulcers, venous
ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any
combination thereof. Alternatively, control samples can be obtained from a source not suspected
to be a source of a chronic wound or inflammation, such as a level of the wound not suspected to
be a source of chronic wound. For example, in a subject experiencing a wound, the control
sample can be obtained from an unaffected or asymptomatic region of the same patient. Control
samples can be samples that are taken from an individual or a group of individuals not
experiencing a chronic wound. Alternatively, control samples can be obtained from unaffected or
asymptomatic wounds from the subject being tested.
[0330] The level of a biomarker, such as A2M, need not be quantified for a diagnostic absence
or presence to be detected. Rather, any method of determining whether A2M is present at levels
lower or higher than in a normal or control can be used. In addition, a diagnostic absence or
presence does not refer to any absolute quantity of A2M, but rather to an amount that, depending
on the biological sample, assay conditions, medical condition of the patient, etc., can be
sufficient to distinguish the level in an affected patient from a normal or control patient.
                                                     110

 WO 2015/031654                                                                       PCT/US2014/053223
[0331] The presence, absence or level of A2M present at a particular level within the wound can
be used to diagnose, or assist in the diagnosis be of, a particular type of chronic wounds such as
pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial
insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof. Additionally, or alternatively, the presence,
absence, or level of A2M in a wound sample can be used to distinguish wounds that results from
wound pathology or injury originating from another source, such as non-chronic-wound.
[0332] The presence, absence, or change over time in the level of A2M in a biological sample
can be used to designate a patient as candidate for a particular treatment. A sample obtained from
the patient can be analyzed for the presence or absence of A2M. The patient can be selected for
treatment if A2M is not detected in the sample. The type of treatment can be then tailored to the
severity of the condition as determined by the presence, absence, or level of A2M.
[0333] The level A2M present at a specific site can also be useful to determine a prognosis for
the subject being tested. For example, the level of A2M present in a sample can indicate the
extent of an acute injury to the subject and can assist a practitioner in determining to what extent
successful repair or healing of the injury or pathology can be achieved.
[0334] Methods for detecting A2M to identify wounds as sites for treating chronic wounds can
be used to diagnose, or assist in the diagnosis of, subjects
[0335] Detection of A2M can be used alone, or in combination with other diagnostic approaches
to diagnose chronic wounds. Exemplary diagnostic approaches include, but are not limited to,
medical history and physical examination, x-ray radiography, MRI and intra-articular injection.
The presence of A2M can however be used to diagnose injury and administer treatment at a
particular location irrespective of whether injury was detectable by other methods, e.g., an MRI.
The patient will typically be treated by administration of a therapeutic agent to the site of injury
or pathology, i.e., the site of presence of A2M.
[0336] The diagnostic methods of the present invention can include determination of the
expression levels of a set of nucleic acid molecules comprising polynucleotide sequences coding
for a protein marker. The diagnostic methods of the present invention can include the
determination of expression levels of a plurality (i.e., one or more, e.g., at least 2, at least 3, at
least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, at least 10 or more) of polypeptides in
a biological sample obtained from a subject. Determination of protein expression levels in the
practice of the inventive methods can be performed by any suitable method (see, for example, E.
Harlow and A. Lane, "Antibodies: A Laboratories Manual", 1988, Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.).
                                                       111

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0337] The disclosed methods can also be used to assess the efficacy of a treatment or a course
of treatment. For example, in a patient with wound testing positive for a diagnostic positive of
A2M, such as wild-type A2M protein, indicative of a chronic wound, the efficacy of a chronic
wound treatment can be assessed by monitoring, over time, the levels of A2M. A decrease in the
levels of A2M in a biological sample taken from a patient following a treatment, compared to a
level in a sample taken from the same patient before, or earlier in, the treatment, can indicate
efficacious treatment. An increase or lack of change in the levels of A2M in a biological sample
taken from a patient following a treatment, compared to a level in a sample taken from the same
patient before, or earlier in, the treatment, can indicate a non-efficacious treatment.
[0338] Inflammation biomarkers for diagnostic methods can be A2M, chemokines, cytokines,
fibronectin, or aggrecan polypeptides in any ratio, in addition to other inflammatory mediators,
extracellular matrix molecules or their breakdown products, signal transduction mediators,
proteases and their inhibitors, and neurotransmitter receptors including, but not limited to IL-6,
Prostaglandin E2, NO, IFN gamma, 5HT, RANTES, MIP-la, MCP-1, IL-Ira, TNF-a,
Procollagens, CTX II, ARGS, aggrecan fragments, fibronectin fragments, FAC, COMP, CS 846,
chondroitin fragments, sRAGE, MMP-3, MMP-13 and other MMPs, ADAMTS-4, aggrecanases,
NF-kappa-B, p38 MAP kinase, DR5 / DcR2.The biomarkers can include full length polypeptides
or can include fragments of polypeptides.
[0339] Any known method for detecting the presence of polypeptides in a biological sample can
be used to qualitatively or quantitatively detect the presence of A2M in biological samples, such
as chronic wound samples. Suitable methods include, but are not limited to, chromatographic
methods, selective binding assays, mass spectrometry, spectrophotometry, or combinations
thereof.
[0340] Exemplary binding assays include immunoassays, such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent
assays. Immunoassays can be used to qualitatively or quantitatively analyze a sample for the
presence of A2M. A general overview of the applicable technology can be found in a number of
readily available manuals, e.g., Harlow & Lane, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Using
Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual (1999).
[0341] The disclosed methods and kits can utilize selective binding partners of inflammation
biomarkers to identify their presence or determine their levels in samples from the wound. The
selective binding partners can be antibodies, or other biomolecules that specifically bind to A2M,
or fragments or complexes thereof.
[0342] Monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies can be used. The antibodies can be any known in
the art, including commercially available antibodies. It is well known to those of skill in the art
                                                   112

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
that the type, source and other aspects of an antibody to be used can be a consideration to be
made in light of the assay in which the antibody can be used. In some instances, antibodies that
will recognize its antigen target (for instance, an epitope or multiple epitopes from A2M) on a
Western blot might not be applicable to all ELISA or ELISpot assay and vice versa.
[0343] Antibodies, antibody fragments, or single chain antibodies to be used can be produced
using techniques for producing monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies that are well known in the
art (see, e.g., Coligan, Current Protocols in Immunology (1991); Harlow & Lane, supra; Goding,
Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Practice (2d ed. 1986); and Kohler & Milstein, Nature
256: 495-497 (1975). Such techniques include antibody preparation by selection of antibodies
from libraries of recombinant antibodies in phage or similar vectors, as well as preparation of
polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies by immunizing rabbits or mice (see, e.g., Huse et al.,
Science 246:1275-1281 (1989); Ward et al., Nature 341:544-546 (1989)).
[0344] A number of immunogens from A2M can be used to produce antibodies specifically
reactive with A2M and fragments thereof. For example, a recombinant A2M or an antigenic
fragment thereof, can be isolated using methods well known to those of skill in the art.
Recombinant protein can be expressed in eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells. Recombinant protein
can be the typically used immunogen for the production of monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies.
Alternatively, synthetic peptides derived from the known sequences A2M and conjugated to a
carrier protein can be used as an immunogen. Naturally-occurring protein can also be used either
in pure or impure form. The product can be then injected into an animal capable of producing
antibodies. Either monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies can be generated, for subsequent use in
immunoassays to measure the protein.
[0345] Antibodies that specifically bind to complexes containing A2M can be used as specific
binding partners.
[0346] Non-antibody polypeptides can be used as specific binding agents for the detection of
A2M, or fragments or complexes thereof. A large number of proteins that specifically bind to
A2M are known in the art. Exemplary proteins that can be used as selective binding partners of
A2M include, but are not limited to soluble receptors, cytokines and growth factors that are
known to bind A2M, modified proteases that can bind to A2M and not trigger the conformation
change.
[0347] Once selective binding partners are available, each specific biomarker can be detected by
a variety of selective binding assays, including immunoassay methods. For a review of
immunological and immunoassay procedures, see Basic and Clinical Immunology (Stites & Terr
eds., 7th ed. 1991). Moreover, the disclosed selective binding assays can be performed in any of
                                                  113

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
several configurations. Several immunoassay configurations are reviewed extensively in Enzyme
Immunoassay (Maggio, ed., 1980).
[0348] Methods for detecting the presence and/or measuring a level of A2M in a sample, can use
specific binding partners A2M, or fragments or complexes thereof. The methods generally
include contacting the sample with specific binding partner for A2M, or fragments or complexes
thereof, purifying a desired fraction from the sample, and detecting binding between the specific
binding partner and molecules of the sample.
[0349] Detection of specific binding of the specific binding partners with molecules of the
sample, when compared to a suitable control, can be an indication that biomarkers are present in
the sample. A variety of methods to detect specific protein interactions are known in the art and
can be used in the method. Methods include competitive assays and noncompetitive assays.
[0350] Suitable methods include, but are not limited to, Western blot, immunoprecipitation,
ELISA and radio-immunoassays. Methods for performing these and other suitable assays are
known in the art. In general, the specific binding partner used to detect the biomarker will be
delectably labeled, either directly or indirectly. The chronic wound sample can be brought into
contact with and immobilized on a solid support or carrier, such as a membrane (i.e.
nitrocellulose) or polystyrene or magnetic beads that can be capable of immobilizing cells, cell
particles, or soluble proteins. The support can then be washed with suitable buffers, followed by
contacting with a detectably-labeled selective binding partner.
[0351] In specific binding assays, it can be desirable to minimize the amount of non-specific
binding that occurs, particularly when the specific binding partner can be attached to a substrate.
Means of reducing such non-specific binding are well known to those of skill in the art.
Typically, this technique involves coating the substrate with a proteinaceous composition. In
particular, protein compositions such as bovine serum albumin (BSA), nonfat powdered milk,
and gelatin are widely used. In addition to, or in place of proteinaceous material, various
detergents and/or salt can be incorporated into the immunoassay to minimize non-specific
interactions. Throughout the assays, incubation and/or washing steps can be required after each
combination of reagents. Incubation and washing times will depend upon several factors,
including the assay format, the affinity of the specific binding partner for the biomarker, the
volume of solution, concentrations.
[0352] A positive control for an inflammation biomarker can be used in the detection assays, for
example to calibrate the detection assay. A2M can be from different sources, for example from
different species. A2M can be recombinant, natural or a combination thereof.
                                                   114

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
[0353] In general, protein expression levels can be determined by contacting a biological sample
isolated from a subject with binding agents for one or more of the protein markers; detecting, in
the sample, the levels of polypeptides that bind to the binding agents; and comparing the levels
of polypeptides in the sample with the levels of polypeptides in a control sample. A binding
agent can be an entity or composition such as a polypeptide or antibody that specifically binds to
a protein marker. A binding agent can specifically bind to a polypeptide if it reacts and/or
interacts at a detectable level with the polypeptide, but does not react and/or interact detectably
with peptides containing unrelated sequences or sequences of different polypeptides.
[0354] The binding agent can be a ribosome, with or without a peptide component, an RNA
molecule, or a polypeptide (e.g., a polypeptide that comprises a polypeptide sequence of a
protein marker, a peptide variant thereof, or a non-peptide mimetic of such a sequence).
[0355] The binding agent can be an antibody specific for a protein marker of the invention.
Suitable antibodies for use in the methods of the present invention include monoclonal and
polyclonal antibodies, immunologically active fragments (e.g., Fab or (Fab) 2 fragments),
antibody heavy chains, humanized antibodies, antibody light chains, and chimeric antibodies.
Antibodies, including monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, fragments and chimeras, can be
prepared using methods known in the art (see, for example, R. G. Mage and E. Lamoyi, in
"Monoclonal Antibody Production Techniques and Applications ", 1987, Marcel Dekker, Inc.:
New York, pp. 79-97; G. Kohler and C. Milstein, Nature, 1975, 256: 495-497; D. Kozbor et al.,
J. Immunol. Methods, 1985,81: 31-42; and R. J. Cote et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 1983, 80:
2026-203; R. A. Lerner, Nature, 1982, 299: 593-596; A. C. Nairn et al., Nature, 1982,299: 734
736; A. J. Czernik et al., Methods Enzymol. 1991, 201: 264-283; A. J. Czemik et al.,
Neuromethods: Regulatory Protein Modification: Techniques & Protocols, 1997, 30: 219-250;
A. J. Czemik et al., Neuroprotocols, 1995, 6: 56-61; H. Zhang et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2002, 277:
39379- 39387; S. L. Morrison et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 1984, 81: 6851-6855; M. S.
Neuberger et al., Nature, 1984,312: 604-608; S. Takeda et al., Nature, 1985, 314: 452-454).
Antibodies to be used in the methods of the invention can be purified by methods well known in
the art (see, for example, S. A. Minden, "Monoclonal Antibody Purification ", 1996, IBC
Biomedical Library Series: Southbridge, Mass.). For example, antibodies can be affinity purified
by passage over a column to which a protein marker or fragment thereof can be bound. The
bound antibodies can then be eluted from the column using a buffer with a high salt
concentration.
[0356] Instead of being prepared, antibodies to be used in the methods of the present invention
can be obtained from scientific or commercial sources.
                                                 115

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
[0357] The binding agent can be directly or indirectly labeled with a detectable moiety. The role
of a detectable agent can be to facilitate the detection step of the diagnostic method by allowing
visualization of the complex formed by binding of the binding agent to the protein marker (or
analog or fragment thereof). The detectable agent can be selected such that it generates a signal
which can be measured and whose intensity can be related or proportional to the amount of
protein marker present in the sample being analyzed. Methods for labeling biological molecules
such as polypeptides and antibodies are well-known in the art (see, for example, "Affinity
Techniques. Enzyme Purification B", Methods in Enzymol., 1974, Vol. 34, W. B. Jakoby and M.
Wilneck (Eds.), Academic Press: New York, N.Y.; and M. Wilchek and E. A. Bayer, Anal.
Biochem., 1988,171: 1-32).
[0358] Specific binding to an antibody, for example, when referring to a protein or peptide, can
be a binding reaction that can be determinative of the presence of the protein in a heterogeneous
population of proteins and other biologics. Thus, under designated immunoassay conditions, the
specified antibodies can bind to a particular protein or protein complex at least two times the
background and do not substantially bind in a significant amount to other proteins present in the
sample. Specific binding between a binding agent, e.g., an antibody and a protein, for instance, a
biomarker, can be the ability of a capture- or detection-agent to preferentially bind to a particular
antigen that can be present in a mixture; e.g., a biological sample. In some embodiments, specific
binding can refer to a dissociation constant (KD) that can be less than about 10-6 M ; preferably,
less than about 10-' M ; and, most preferably, less than about 10-9 M.
[0359] Specific binding assays, including immunoassays, can use a labeling agent to specifically
bind to and allow for the detection of the complex formed by the specific binding partner and the
detected analyte. A label or detectable moiety can be a composition detectable by spectroscopic,
photochemical, biochemical, radiographic, immunochemical, chemical, or other physical means.
For example, useful labels include 32 P, fluorescent dyes, electron-dense reagents, enzymes (e.g.,
as commonly used in an ELISA), biotin, digoxigenin, or haptens and proteins or other entities
which can be made detectable, e.g., by incorporating a radiolabel into the peptide or used to
detect antibodies specifically reactive with the peptide. The labels can be incorporated into
nucleic acids, proteins and antibodies at any position. Any method known in the art for
conjugating the antibody to the label can be employed, e.g., using methods described in
Hermanson, Bioconjugate Techniques 1996, Academic Press, Inc., San Diego.
[0360] The labeling agent can be a part of the specific binding partner used to detect the analyte.
Alternatively, the labeling agent can be a third moiety, such a secondary antibody, which
specifically binds to the complex formed by the specific binding partner and the detected analyte.
                                                  116

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
Other proteins capable of specifically binding immunoglobulin constant regions, such as protein
A or protein G, can also be used as the label agent. These proteins exhibit a strong affinity for
immunoglobulin constant regions from a variety of species (see, e.g., Kronval et al., J. Immunol.
 111: 1401- 1406 (1973); Akerstrom et al., J. Immunol. 135:2589-2542 (1985)). The labeling
agent can be modified with a detectable moiety, such as biotin, to which another molecule can
specifically bind, such as streptavidin. A variety of detectable moieties are well-known to those
skilled in the art.
[0361] The detectable label can be any material having a detectable physical or chemical
property. Many useful detectable labels are known in the art and include any label that can be
detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, radiographic,
electrical, optical or chemical means. The choice of label can depend on the sensitivity required,
the ease of conjugation with the compound, stability requirements, available instrumentation,
and disposal provisions. Useful labels include magnetic beads (e.g., DYNABEADS @),
fluorescent dyes (e.g., fluorescein isothiocyanate, Texas red, rhodamine, and the like),
radiolabels (e.g., 3H, 1251, 35S, 14C, or 32P), enzymes (e.g., horseradish peroxidase, alkaline
phosphatase and others commonly used in an ELISA), and calorimetric labels such as colloidal
gold or colored glass or plastic beads (e.g., polystyrene, polypropylene, latex, etc.).
[0362] Non-radioactive labels are often attached by indirect means. Generally, a ligand
molecule (e.g., biotin) can be covalently bound to the molecule. The ligand then binds to another
molecules (e.g., streptavidin) molecule, which can be either inherently detectable or covalently
bound to a signal system, such as a detectable enzyme, a fluorescent compound, or a
chemiluminescent compound. The ligands and their targets can be used in any suitable
combination with antibodies that recognize the biomarkers, or secondary antibodies that
recognize the antibodies to the biomarkers.
[0363] The molecules can also be conjugated directly to signal generating compounds, for
example, by conjugation with an enzyme or fluorophore. Enzymes that can be used as labels will
primarily be hydrolases, particularly phosphatases, esterases and glycosidases, or oxidotases,
particularly peroxidases. Exemplary fluorescent compounds include, but are not limited to,
fluorescein and its derivatives, rhodamine and its derivatives, dansyl and pM belliferone.
Exemplary chemiluminescent compounds include, but are not limited to, luciferin and 2,3
dihydrophthalazinediones. Means of detecting labels are well known to those of skill in the art.
[0364] Any of a wide variety of detectable agents can be used in the practice of the present
invention. Suitable detectable agents include, but are not limited to: various ligands,
radionuclides, fluorescent dyes, chemiluminescent agents, microparticles (such as, for example,
                                                  117

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
quantum dots, nanocrystals, phosphors and the like), enzymes (such as, for example, those used
in an ELISA, i.e., horseradish peroxidase, beta-galactosidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase),
colorimetric labels, magnetic labels, and biotin, dioxigenin or other haptens and proteins for
which antisera or monoclonal antibodies are available.
[0365] In certain embodiments, the binding agents (e.g., antibodies) can be immobilized on a
carrier or support (e.g., a bead, a magnetic particle, a latex particle, a microtiter plate well, a
cuvette, or other reaction vessel). Examples of suitable carrier or support materials include
agarose, cellulose, nitrocellulose, dextran, Sephadex, Sepharose, liposomes, carboxymethyl
cellulose, polyacrylamides, polystyrene, gabbros, filter paper, magnetite, ion-exchange resin,
plastic film, plastic tube, glass, polyamine-methyl vinylether-maleic acid copolymer, amino acid
copolymer, ethylene-maleic acid copolymer, nylon, silk, and the like. Binding agents can be
indirectly immobilized using second binding agents specific for the first binding agents (e.g.,
mouse antibodies specific for the protein markers can be immobilized using sheep anti-mouse
IgG Fc fragment specific antibody coated on the carrier or support).
[0366] Protein expression levels in the diagnostic methods of the present invention can be
determined using immunoassays. Examples of such assays are radioimmunoassays, enzyme
immunoassays (e.g., ELISA), immunofluorescence immunoprecipitation, latex agglutination,
hemagglutination, and histochemical tests, which are conventional methods well-known in the
art. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, the immunoassay can be competitive or
noncompetitive. Methods of detection and quantification of the signal generated by the complex
formed by binding of the binding agent with the protein marker will depend on the nature of the
assay and of the detectable moiety (e.g., fluorescent moiety). Alternatively, the protein
expression levels can be determined using mass spectrometry based methods or image (including
use of labeled ligand) based methods known in the art for the detection of proteins. Other
suitable methods include proteomics-based methods.
[0367] Determination of expression levels of nucleic acid molecules in the practice of the
inventive methods can be performed by any suitable method, including, but not limited to,
Southern analysis, Northern analysis, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (see, for example, U.S.
Pat. Nos., 4,683,195; 4,683,202, and 6,040,166; "PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and
Applications ", Innis et al. (Eds.), 1990, Academic Press: New York), reverse transcriptase
PCR(RT-PCT), anchored PCR, competitive PCR (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,747,251),
rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) (see, for example, "Gene Cloning and Analysis:
Current Innovations, 1997, pp. 99-115); ligase chain reaction (LCR) (see, for example, EP 01
320308), one-sided PCR (Ohara et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 1989, 86: 5673-5677), in situ
                                                  118

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
hybridization, Taqman based assays (Holland et al., Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci., 1991,88:7276-7280),
differential display (see, for example, Liang et al., Nucl. Acid. Res., 1993, 21: 3269-3275) and
other RNA fingerprinting techniques, nucleic acid sequence based amplification (NASBA) and
other transcription based amplification systems (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,409,818 and
5,554,527), Qbeta Replicase, Strand Displacement Amplification (SDA), Repair Chain Reaction
(RCR), nuclease protection assays, subtraction-based methods, Rapid-Scan m , and the like.
[0368] Nucleic acid probes for use in the detection of polynucleotide sequences in biological
samples can be constructed using conventional methods known in the art. Suitable probes can be
based on nucleic acid sequences encoding at least about 5 sequential amino acids from regions of
nucleic acids encoding a protein marker, and preferably comprise about 15 to about 50
nucleotides. A nucleic acid probe can be labeled with a detectable moiety, as mentioned above in
the case of binding agents. The association between the nucleic acid probe and detectable moiety
can be covalent or non-covalent. Detectable moieties can be attached directly to nucleic acid
probes or indirectly through a linker (E. S. Mansfield et al., Mol. Cell. Probes, 1995,9: 145-156).
Methods for labeling nucleic acid molecules are well known in the art (for a review of labeling
protocols, label detection techniques and recent developments in the field, see, for example, L. J.
Kricka, Ann Clin. Biochem. 2002, 39: 114- 129; R. P. van Gijlswijk et al., Expert Rev. Mol.
Diagn. 2001,1: 81-91; and S. Joos et al., J. Biotechnol. 1994,35:135-153).
[0369] Nucleic acid probes can be used in hybridization techniques to detect polynucleotides
encoding the protein markers. The technique can generally involve contacting an incubating
nucleic acid molecules in a biological sample obtained from a subject with the nucleic acid
probes under conditions such that specific hybridization takes place between the nucleic acid
probes and the complementary sequences in the nucleic acid molecules. After incubation, the
non-hybridized nucleic acids are removed, and the presence and amount of nucleic acids that
have hybridized to the probes are detected and quantified.
[0370] Detection of nucleic acid molecules comprising polynucleotide sequences coding for a
protein marker can involve amplification of specific polynucleotide sequences using an
amplification method such as PCR, followed by analysis of the amplified molecules using
techniques known in the art. Suitable primers can be routinely designed by one skilled in the art.
In order to maximize hybridization under assay conditions, primers and probes employed in the
methods of the invention generally have at least about 60%, preferably at least about 75% and
more preferably at least about 90% identity to a portion of nucleic acids encoding a protein
marker.
                                                 119

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
[0371] Hybridization and amplification techniques described herein can be used to assay
qualitative and quantitative aspects of expression of nucleic acid molecules comprising
polynucleotide sequences coding for the inventive protein markers.
[0372] Alternatively, oligonucleotides or longer fragments derived from nucleic acids encoding
each protein marker can be used as targets in a microarray. A number of different array
configurations and methods of their production are known to those skilled in the art (see, for
example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,445,934; 5,532,128; 5,556,752; 5,242,974; 5,384, 261; 5,405,783;
5,412,087; 5,424,186; 5,429,807; 5,436,327; 5,472,672; 5,527,681; 5,529,756; 5,545,531; 5,554,
501; 5,561,071; 5,571,639; 5,593,839; 5,599,695; 5,624, 711; 5,658,734; and 5,700,637).
Microarray technology allows for the measurement of the steady-state level of large numbers of
polynucleotide sequences simultaneously. Microarrays currently in wide use include cDNA
arrays and oligonucleotide arrays. Analyses using microarrays are generally based on
measurements of the intensity of the signal received from a labeled probe used to detect a cDNA
sequence from the sample that hybridizes to a nucleic acid probe immobilized at a known
location on the microarray (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,004,755; 6,218,114; 6,218,122;
and 6,271,002). Array-based gene expression methods are known in the art and have been
described in numerous scientific publications as well as in patents (see, for example, M. Schena
et al., Science, 1995,270: 467-470; M. Schena et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1996, 93:
 10614-10619; 1. 1. Chen et al., Genomics, 1998, 51: 313324; U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,143,854;
5,445,934; 5,807,522; 5,837, 832; 6,040,138; 6,045,996; 6,284,460; and 6,607,885).
[0373] Any biomarker binding agent, such as an antibody, can be labeled with a radiolabel or a
fluorescent label. A labeled biomarker binding agent can be administered into a subject, by any
suitable method, such as by injection. In some embodiments, a labeled biomarker binding agent
can be administered locally, such as to a chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers,
stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any
combination thereof. The labeled biomarker binding agent can be detected by any suitable means
known in the art. Exemplary instruments that can be used to detect radiolabeled agents or
fluorescent agents after administration to a subject include, but are not limited to, instruments for
                TM
IVIS Imaging       (Calipur), bioluminescence imaging (BLI), fluorescence-lifetime imaging (FLI)
microscopy, X-ray radiography, ultrasound imaging, computed tomography (CT) imaging,
single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET),
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or any combination thereof. A labeled biomarker agent can
bind to its respective biomarker upon administration of the agent into a subject. In some
embodiments, the intensity of the signal from the label and the region in a subject's body where
                                                  120

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
the label accumulates can indicate a chronic wound such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis
ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any combination
thereof, where treatment is needed..
Therapeutic Methods
[0374] Any method known in the art can be used to treat the chronic wound, or to treat the
pathology that can be causing the chronic wound. A method can comprise treatment of a chronic
wound in a mammal, such as a neuropathic ulcer decubitus ulcer, a venous ulcer or a diabetic
ulcer or an infected wound. The method can comprise applying an A2M composition to the
wound. A2M compositions and formulations can be used for inhibiting proteases. A2M
compositions can be used to prevent, slow, or alter FAC formation. A variant A2M can be more
efficient than a wild-type A2M polypeptide in inhibiting proteases, have a longer half-life, have
a slower clearance factor, or any combination thereof.
[0375] In some embodiments, the wound is a decubital ulcer, a pressure ulcer, a lower extremity
ulcer, a deep sternal wound, a post-operative wound, a refractory post-operative wound of the
trunk area, a wound to the great saphenous vein following harvesting of the great saphenous
vein, a venous ulcer, or an anal fissure. In those embodiments involving a lower extremity ulcer,
the ulcer may be in a diabetic patient. In other embodiments, the wound is a venous ulcer,
pressure ulcer, or post-operative ulcer.
[0376] The A2M composition can be comprised on a wound dressing. Dry and hydrated, i.e. wet
wound dressings and delivery systems can be used and can also be suitable for active
ingredients, their use for the treatment of wounds and skin diseases, preferably chronic wounds.
A wound dressing can be applied to the chronic wound for a period of at least 1 hour, at least 24
hours, at least 48 hours, or at least 72 hours. The treatment may be extended for several days,
weeks or months, with dressing changes as appropriate, if necessary for chronic wounds.
[0377] Another aspect of the invention relates to articles of manufacture comprising a
composition of the invention and a dressing. In some embodiments, the dressing is a dry
dressing, moisture-keeping barrier dressing, or bioactive dressing. In those embodiments
involving a dry dressing, the dressing may be a gauze, a bandage, a non-adhesive mesh, a
membrane, foils, foam, or a tissue adhesive. In those embodiments involving a moisture-keeping
barrier dressing, the dressing may be a paste, a cream, an ointment, a nonpermeable or semi
permeable membrane or foil, a hydrocolloid, a hydrogel, or combinations thereof. In those
embodiments involving a bioactive dressing, the dressing may be an antimicrobial dressing. For
example, the wound dressing may be a woven, nonwoven or knitted fabric having the A2M
                                                  121

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
composition coated thereon, or it may be a bioresorbable polymer film or sponge having the
A2M composition dispersed therein for sustained release at the ulcer site.
Dressings and Matrices
[0378] In one aspect, one or more active agents are provided in the form of a dressing or matrix.
In certain embodiments, the one or more agents of the invention are provided in the form of a
liquid, semi-solid or solid composition for application directly, or the composition is applied to
the surface of, or incorporated into, a solid contacting layer such as a dressing gauze or matrix.
The dressing composition may be provided for example, in the form of a fluid or a gel. One or
more active agents may be provided in combination with conventional pharmaceutical excipients
for topical application. Suitable carriers include: Pluronic gels, Poloxamer gels, Hydrogels
containing cellulose derivatives, including hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxymethyl cellulose,
carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and mixtures thereof; and hydrogels
containing polyacrylic acid (Carbopols). Suitable carriers also include creams/ointments used for
topical pharmaceutical preparations, e.g., creams based on cetomacrogol emulsifying ointment.
The above carriers may include alginate (as a thickener or stimulant), preservatives such as
benzyl alcohol, buffers to control pH such as disodium hydrogen phosphate/sodium dihydrogen
phosphate, agents to adjust osmolarity such as sodium chloride, and stabilizers such as EDTA.
[0379] Suitable dressings or matrices may include, for example, the following with A2M
compositions or formulations:
[0380] Suitable absorptives may include, for example, absorptive dressings, which can provide,
for example, a semi-adherent quality or a non-adherent layer, combined with highly absorptive
layers of fibers, such as for example, cellulose, cotton or rayon. Alternatively, absorptives may
be used as a primary or secondary dressing.
[0381] Suitable alginates include, for example, dressings that are non-woven, non-adhesive pads
and ribbons composed of natural polysaccharide fibers or xerogel derived from seaweed.
Suitable alginates dressings may, for example, form a moist gel through a process of ion
exchange upon contact with exudate. In certain embodiments, alginate dressings are designed to
be soft and conformable, easy to pack, tuck or apply over irregular-shaped areas. In certain
embodiments, alginate dressings may be used with a second dressing.
[0382] Suitable antimicrobial dressings may include, for example, dressings that can facilitate
delivery of bioactive agents, such as, for example, silver and polyhexamethylene biguanide
(PHMB), to maintain efficacy against infection, where this is needed or desirable. In certain
embodiments, suitable antimicrobial dressings may be available as for example, as sponges,
                                                  122

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
impregnated woven gauzes, film dressings, absorptive products, island dressings, nylon fabric,
non-adherent barriers, or a combination of materials.
[0383] Suitable biological dressings or biosynthetic dressings may include, for example, gels,
solutions or semi-permeable sheets derived from a natural source, e.g., pigs or cows. In certain
embodiments, a gel or solution is applied to the treatment site and covered with a dressing for
barrier protection. In another embodiment, a biological-based or biosynthetic-based sheet is
placed in situ which may act as membrane, remaining in place after a single application, or the
biological dressings or biosynthetic dressings may be prepared in advance to include the
therapeutics agents.
[0384] Suitable collagen dressings may include, for example, gels, pads, particles, pastes,
powders, sheets or solutions derived from for example, bovine, porcine or avian sources or other
natural sources or donors. In certain embodiments, the collagen dressing may interact with
treatment site exudate to form a gel. In certain embodiments, collagen dressing may be used in
combination with a secondary dressing.
[0385] Suitable composite dressings may include, for example, dressings that combine
physically distinct components into a single product to provide multiple functions, such as, for
example, a bacterial barrier, absorption, and adhesion. In certain embodiments, the composite
dressings are comprised of, for example, multiple layers and incorporate a semi- or non-adherent
pad. In certain embodiments, the composite may also include for example, an adhesive border of
non-woven fabric tape or transparent film. In certain other embodiments, the composite dressing
may function as for example, either a primary or a secondary dressing and in yet another
embodiment, the dressing may be used in combination with topical pharmaceutical composition.
[0386] Suitable contact layer dressings may include, for example, thin, non-adherent sheets
placed on an area to protect tissue from for example, direct contact with other agents or dressings
applied to the treatment site. In certain embodiments, contact layers may be deployed to conform
to the shape of the area of the treatment site and are porous to allow exudate to pass through for
absorption by an overlying, secondary dressing. In yet another embodiment, the contact layer
dressing may be used in combination with topical pharmaceutical composition.
[0387] Suitable elastic bandages may include, for example, dressings that stretch and conform to
the body contours. In certain embodiments, the fabric composition may include for example,
cotton, polyester, rayon, or nylon. In certain other embodiments, the elastic bandage may for
example, provide absorption as a second layer or dressing, to hold a cover in place, to apply
pressure or to cushion a treatment site.
                                                  123

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
[0388] Suitable foam dressings may include, for example, sheets and other shapes of foamed
polymer solutions (including polyurethane) with small, open cells capable of holding fluids.
Exemplary foams may be for example, impregnated or layered in combination with other
materials. In certain embodiments, the absorption capability may be adjusted based on the
thickness and composition of the foam. In certain other embodiments, the area in contact with
the treatment site may be non-adhesive for easy removal. In yet another embodiment, the foam
may be used in combination with an adhesive border and/or a transparent film coating that can
serve as an anti-infective barrier.
[0389] Suitable gauze dressings and woven dressings may include, for example, dry woven or
non-woven sponges and wraps with varying degrees of absorbency. Exemplary fabric
composition may include, for example, cotton, polyester, or rayon. In certain embodiments,
gauzes and non-woven dressing may be available sterile or non-sterile in bulk and with or
without an adhesive border. Exemplary gauze dressings and woven dressings may be used for
cleansing, packing and covering a variety of treatment sites.
[0390] Suitable hydrocolloid dressings may include, for example, wafers, powders or pastes
composed of gelatin, pectin, or carboxymethylcellulose. In certain embodiment, wafers are self
adhering and available with or without an adhesive border and in a wide variety of shapes and
sizes. Exemplary hydrocolloids are useful on areas that require contouring. In certain
embodiments, powders and pastes hydrocolloids may use used in combination with a secondary
dressing.
[0391] Suitable amorphous hydrogel dressings may include, for example, formulations of water,
polymers and other ingredients with no shape, designed to donate moisture and to maintain a
moist healing environments and or to rehydrate the treatment site. In certain embodiments,
hydrogels may be used in combination with a secondary dressing cover. Suitable impregnated
hydrogel dressings may include, for example, gauzes and non-woven sponges, ropes and strips
saturated with an amorphous hydrogel. Amorphous hydrogels may include for example,
formulations of water, polymers and other ingredients with no shape, designed to donate
moisture to a dry treatment site and to maintain a moist healing environment.
[0392] Suitable hydrogel sheets may include for example, three-dimensional networks of cross
linked hydrophilic polymers that are insoluble in water and interact with aqueous solutions by
swelling. Exemplary hydrogels are highly conformable and permeable and can absorb varying
amounts of drainage, depending on their composition. In some embodiments, the hydrogel is
non-adhesive against the treatment site or treated for easy removal.
                                                 124

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
[0393] Suitable impregnated dressings may include, for example, gauzes and non-woven
sponges, ropes and strips saturated with a solution, an emulsion, oil, gel or some other
pharmaceutically active compound or carrier agent, including for example, saline, oil, zinc salts,
petrolatum, xeroform, and scarlet red as well as the compounds described herein. Silicone Gel
Sheets: suitable silicone gel sheet dressings may include, for example, soft covers composed of
cross-linked polymers reinforced with or bonded to mesh or fabric.
[0394] Suitable liquid dressings may include, for example, mixtures of multiprotein material and
other elements found in the extracellular matrix. In certain embodiments, exemplary solutions
may be applied to the treatment site after debridement and cleansing and then covered with an
absorbent dressing or a nonadherent pad. Transparent Films: suitable transparent film dressings
may include polymer membranes of varying thickness coated on one side with an adhesive. In
certain embodiments, transparent films are impermeable to liquid, water and bacteria but
permeable to moisture vapor and atmospheric gases. In certain embodiments, the transparency
allows visualization of the treatment site.
[0395] Suitable filler dressings may include, for example, beads, creams, foams, gels, ointments,
pads, pastes, pillows, powders, strands, or other formulations. In certain embodiments, fillers are
non-adherent and may include a time-released antimicrobial. Exemplary fillers may be useful to
maintain a moist environment, manage exudate, and for treatment of for example, partial- and
full-thickness wounds, infected wounds, draining wounds, and deep wounds that require
packing. Where the A2M composition is used for prophylaxis of chronic wounds, conventional
transdermal pharmaceutical forms may be appropriate, such as slow-release skin patches to
prevent or minimize ulcer formation or breakout. More conventional systemic administration,
such as oral or parenteral administration, may be preferable.
[0396] In still another aspect, a composition of the invention may further comprise as a matrix or
scaffold a material suitable for implantation in a person. In some embodiments, the material is a
solid before implantation. In some embodiments, the material is a gel that solidifies following
implantation.
[0397] The A2Mcompositions may be suitable for local or systemic, oral or parenteral
administration. However, preferably, the composition is in the form of an ointment for topical
administration to a chronic wound or ulcer. The ointment can comprise an A2M composition in a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Suitable carriers include: Hydrogels containing cellulose
derivatives, including hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxymethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl
cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and mixtures thereof; and hydrogels containing
polyacrylic acid (Carbopols). Suitable carriers also including creams/ointments used for topical
                                                 125

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
pharmaceutical preparations, e.g., creams based on cetomacrogol emulsifying ointment. The
above carriers may include alginate (as a thickener or stimulant), preservatives such as benzyl
alcohol, buffers to control pH such as disodium hydrogen phosphate/sodium dihydrogen
phosphate, agents to adjust osmolarity such as sodium chloride, and stabilizers such as EDTA.
[0398] Wound dressing compositions can be located on an inert support, such as an adhesive
strip, adhesive wrap, bandage, gauze bandage or compress system. Wound dressing
compositions, systems and packages can be used for the treatment of wounds, especially badly
healing wounds like chronic wounds, in particular for the treatment of diabetic, venous,
decubitus or neuropathic ulcers or infected wounds. For example, A2M compositions or
formulation can be directly smeared 1 to 3 mm thick or thinner than 2 mm thick on the wound
surface. The wound surface can be covered and/or bound, such as with cotton gauze or a
ventilative material. The dressing can be removed one or more times during a time period. For
example, the dressing can be removed 1, 2, 3, 4,5, 6 ,7, 8, 9,10 or more times over a 12-96 hours.
The dressing change can remove metabolites in wound surfaces. The wound can then be covered
with an A2M composition and bound with gauze dressing. Necrotic musculotendinous tissue can
be removed. In some embodiments, disinfectants are not applied to the surface of the wound.
[0399] Any number of methods known in the art for treating chronic wounds can be applied to
treat the patient. Suitable methods include surgical and non-surgical methods including, but not
limited to, arthroscopic debridement or administration of steroidal or non-steroidal anti
inflammatory agents. Suitable methods include but are not limited to, laminotomy, laminectomy,
discectomy, microdiscectomy, percutaneous discectomy, endoscopic discectomy, laser
discectomy, foramenotomy, fusion, prolotherapy, other surgical decompressions, decompression
with fusion with or without instrumentation.
[0400] Chronic wounds can also be treated by standard non-surgical methods, including
administration of steroidal or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Non-steroidal anti
inflammatory (NSAID) agents are well known in the art. Non-steroidal agents, including
NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, aspirin or paracetamol can be used. Steroids, such as glucocorticoids,
which reduce inflammation by binding to cortisol receptors, can also be used for treatment.
[0401] Other wound healing therapeutic substances can be used, such as non-steroidal anti
inflammatory drugs, e.g., acetaminophen, steroids, like hydrocortisone or betamethosone, local
anesthetics, antimicrobial agents, growth factors (e.g., fibroblast growth factors or platelet
derived growth factor), or protease inhibitors. The antimicrobial agent may, for example,
comprise an antiseptic, an antibiotic, or mixtures thereof. Preferred antibiotics include
cephalosporins (cephalexin, cefoxytin, and others), penicillins (amoxycillin, ampicillin,
                                                 126

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
phenoxymethylpenicillin, and others), tetracyclines (minocycline, doxycycline, and others),
aminoglycosides (gentamicin, neomycin, and others), antifungals (isoconazole, clotrimazole,
amphotericin, and others), sulphadiazine, chloramphenicol, erythromycin, vancomycin,
trimethoprim, and others. Preferred antiseptics include silver, including colloidal silver, silver
salts including one or more silver salts of one or more of the anionic polymers making up the
material, silver sulfadiazine, chlorhexidine, povidone iodine, triclosan, sucralfate, quartemary
ammonium salts and mixtures thereof.
[0402] A2M compositions and formulations can be used for enhancing the nonspecific inhibition
of one or more proteases in a human or non-human animal experiencing or susceptible to one or
more conditions selected from the group of chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous
ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any
combination thereof. For example, A2M compositions can be administered to an animal to
reduce one or more protease activities in an animal.
[0403] Any of the compositions or formulations can be for administration by parenteral
(intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous injection), transdermal (either
passively or using iontophoresis or electroporation), or transmucosal (nasal, vaginal, rectal, or
sublingual), oral, intra-articular or inhalation routes of administration. A2M compositions and
formulations can also be administered using bioerodible inserts, bare-metal stents (BMS), or
drug-eluting stents (DES or coated stents, or medicated stents), and can be delivered directly to
chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers,
diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof. A2M compositions
and formulations can be formulated in dosage forms appropriate for each route of administration.
An A2M containing an agent that is not peptides or polypeptides, can additionally be formulated
for enteral administration.
[0404] In some embodiments, the A2M compositions can be delivered by injection (peripherally
or directly to a site). In one aspect, the injection is made at or adjacent to a site or wound, e.g., 1
 10 mm from the site or wound edge. In other embodiments, the injection is made about 1-8, 1-7,
 1-6, 1-5, 1-4, 1-3 and 1-2 mm from the site or wound edge. In still other embodiments, the
injection is made about 2-8, 2-7, 2-6, 2-5, 2-4 and 2-3 mm from the site or wound edge. In one
embodiment, the injection is made 2-4 or 2-5 mm from the site or wound edge. In sites of
administration, including wounds, which have length greater than about 1 cm, the injections can
occur once every linear centimeter. In one embodiment, the injection is angled in toward a
wound or other site of administration, or the injection is made into the dermis of a wound, or by
intradermal, intra-tissue or intra-organ injection.
                                                    127

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0405] The A2M compositions and formulations can be administered to a subject in a
therapeutically effective amount. The precise dosage will vary according to a variety of factors
such as subject dependent variables, such as age, the injury or pathology being treated, and the
treatment being affected. The exact dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of
the patient to be treated. Dosage and administration are adjusted to provide sufficient levels of
the active moiety or to maintain the desired effect. Additional factors that can be taken into
account include the severity of the disease, age of the organism, and weight or size of the
organism; diet, time and frequency of administration, drug combination(s), reaction sensitivities,
and tolerance/response to therapy. Short acting pharmaceutical compositions are administered
daily whereas long acting pharmaceutical compositions are administered every 2, 3 to 4 days,
every week, or once every two weeks. Depending on half-life and clearance rate of the particular
formulation, the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are administered once, twice,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more times per day.
[0406] For some compositions, the selected dosage depends upon the route of administration,
and on the duration of the treatment desired. Generally dosage levels can include 0.1 to 40 mg/kg
of body weight daily. Generally, for local injection or infusion, dosages can be lower. Depending
on the composition and site of administration, dosage levels can be between about 1 to 500,000
mg, in a volume between about 0.1 to 10 mL. For example, dosage levels can be between about
5 to 450 mg, 5 to 400 mg, 5 to 350 mg, 5 to 300 mg, 5 to 250 mg, 5 to 200 mg, 5 to 150 mg, 5 to
 100 mg, 5 to 500 mg, 5 to 25 mg, 100 to 150 mg, 100 to 200 mg, 100 to 250 mg, 100 to 300 mg,
 100 to 350 mg, 100 to 400 mg, 100 to 450 mg, or 100 to 500 mg in a volume between about 0.1
to 9 mL, 0.1 to 8 mL, 0.1 to 7 mL, 0.1 to 6 mL, 0.1 to 5 mL, 0.1 to 4 mL, 0.1 to 3 mL, 0.1 to 2
mL, 0.1 to 1 mL, 0.1 to 0.9 mL, 0.1 to 0.7 mL, 0.1 to 0.6 mL, 0.1 to 0.5 mL, 0.1 to 0.4 mL, 0.1 to
0.3 mL, 0.1 to 0.2 mL, I to 9 mL, I to 8 mL, I to 7 mL, I to 6 mL, I to 5 mL, 1 to 4 mL, I to 3
mL, or I to 2 mL. Normal dosage amounts of various variant A2M polypeptides or nucleic acids,
or fragment thereof can vary from any number between approximately 1 to 500,000 micrograms,
up to a total dose of about 50 grams, depending upon the route of administration. Desirable
dosages include, for example, 250 pg, 500 pg, 1 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, 250 mg,
300 mg, 350 mg, 400 mg, 450 mg, 500 mg, 550 mg, 600 mg, 650 mg, 700 mg, 750 mg, 800 mg,
850 mg, 900 mg, 1 g, 1.1 g, 1.2 g, 1.3 g, 1.4 g, 1.5 g, 1.6 g, 1.7 g, 1.8 g, 1.9 g, 2 g, 3 g, 4 g, 5, 6
g, 7 g, 8 g, 9 g, 10 g, 20 g, 30 g, 40 g, and 50 g.
[0407] The dose of the composition can be administered to produce a tissue or blood
concentration from approximately any number between 0.1 pM to 500 mM. Desirable doses
produce a tissue or blood concentration of about any number from 1 to 800pM. Preferable doses
                                                    128

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
produce a tissue or blood concentration of greater than about any number from 10pPM to about
500pM. For example, a dose can comprise the amount of active ingredient required to achieve a
tissue or blood concentration of 10pM, 15pM, 20pM, 25pM, 30pM, 35pM, 40pM, 45pM,
50pM, 55pM, 60pM, 65pM, 70pM, 75pM, 80pM, 85pM, 90pM, 95pM, 100pM, 110pM,
 120pM, 130pM, 140pM, 145pM, 150pM, 160pM, 170pM, 180pM, 190pM, 200pM, 220PM,
240pM, 250pM, 260pM, 280pM, 300pM, 320pM, 340pM, 360pM, 380pM, 400pM, 420pM,
440pM, 460pM, 480pM, and 500pM. Although doses that produce a tissue concentration of
greater than 800pM are not preferred, they can be used with some embodiments of the invention.
A constant infusion can also be provided so as to maintain a stable concentration in the tissues as
measured by blood levels.
[0408] Any of the A2M compositions or formulations can be administered in an aqueous
solution by parenteral, intradiscal, intrafacet, intrathecal, epidural or topical application. Any
composition described herein can be administered directly to the chronic wound. For example,
when fibronectin-aggrecan complexes are detected in the wound, an A2M composition can be
administered by direct injection into the wound. Alternatively, the compositions can be
administered by direct application to the wound when FACs or protease activity or other suitable
biomarkers are detected in these spaces. For example, aggrecan can include any naturally
occurring variants and splice variants of aggrecan, versican, brevican and neurocan, and any
variants of aggrecan, versican, brevican and neurocan due to splicing by different cell types.
Fibronectin can include any naturally occurring fibronectin variants including approximately 20
known splice variants associated with a disease or a disorder and fibronectin variants due to
different splicing by different cell types.
[0409] A composition or formulation can also be in the form of a suspension or emulsion. In
general, pharmaceutical compositions are provided including effective amounts of a peptide or
polypeptide, and optionally include pharmaceutically acceptable diluents, preservatives,
solubilizers, emulsifiers, adjuvants and/or carriers. Such compositions include diluents sterile
water, buffered saline of various buffer content (e.g., Tris-HC1, acetate, phosphate), pH and
ionic strength; and optionally, additives such as detergents and solubilizing agents (e.g.,
TWEEN@ 20, TWEEN@ 80, Polysorbate 80), anti-oxidants (e.g., ascorbic acid, sodium
metabisulfite), and preservatives (e.g., Thimersol, benzyl alcohol) and bulking substances (e.g.,
lactose, mannitol). Examples of non-aqueous solvents or vehicles are propylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol, vegetable oils, such as olive oil and corn oil, gelatin, and injectable organic
esters such as ethyl oleate. The formulations can be lyophilized and redissolved or resuspended
immediately before use. The formulation can be sterilized by, for example, filtration through a
                                                   129

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
bacteria retaining filter, by incorporating sterilizing agents into the compositions, by irradiating
the compositions, or by heating the compositions. In some embodiments, linoleic acid can be
used in the A2M compositions, for example, to treat a diabetic ulcer.
[0410] Any composition or formulation can also be administered in controlled release
formulations. Controlled release polymeric devices can be made for long term release
systemically following implantation of a polymeric device (rod, cylinder, film, or disc) or
injection (microparticles). The matrix can be in the form of microparticles such as microspheres,
where peptides are dispersed within a solid polymeric matrix or microcapsules, where the core
can be of a different material than the polymeric shell, and the peptide can be dispersed or
suspended in the core, which can be liquid or solid in nature. Unless specifically defined herein,
microparticles, microspheres, and microcapsules are used interchangeably. Alternatively, the
polymer can be cast as a thin slab or film, ranging from nanometers to four centimeters, a
powder produced by grinding or other standard techniques, or even a gel such as a hydrogel.
[0411] Either non-biodegradable or biodegradable matrices can be used for delivery of any
composition or formulation described herein, although biodegradable matrices are preferred.
These can be natural or synthetic polymers, although synthetic polymers are preferred due to the
better characterization of degradation and release profiles. The polymer can be selected based on
the period over which release can be desired. In some cases linear release can be most useful,
although in others a pulse release or "bulk release" can provide more effective results. The
polymer can be in the form of a hydro gel (typically in absorbing up to about 90% by weight of
water), and can optionally be crosslinked with multivalent ions or polymers. The matrices can be
formed by solvent evaporation, spray drying, solvent extraction and other methods known to
those skilled in the art. Bioerodible microspheres can be prepared using any of the methods
developed for making microspheres for drug delivery, for example, as described by Mathiowitz
and Langer, J. ControlledRelease, 5:13-22 (1987); Mathiowitz, et al., Reactive Polymers, 6:275
283 (1987); and Mathiowitz, et al., J. Appl. Polymer Sci., 35:755- 774 (1988).
[0412] Devices can be formulated for local release to treat the area of implantation or injection
which will typically deliver a dosage that can be much less than the dosage for treatment of an
entire body or systemic delivery. These can be implanted or injected subcutaneously, into the
muscle, fat, or swallowed.
[0413] Any A2M composition or formulation can be used in the treatment of a condition or a
disease. For example, a condition or disease can be chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers,
venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers
or any combination thereof.
                                                   130

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
[0414] In some embodiments, agents that are not peptides or polypeptides, can be used in the
treatment of a condition or a disease. For example, an agent, can be administered directly onto a
chronic wound such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic
foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof.
[0415] Any of the compositions described herein can be isolated from a blood sample and can be
suitable for administration to chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis
ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any com
[0416] In other aspects, the invention is directed to a method of inhibiting the onset of infection
in a wound, comprising administering to the wound a composition of the invention. In one
embodiment, the wound is caused by trauma. In another embodiment, the wound is caused by
surgery.
[0417] In those aspects involving methods of treating a wound, the wound may also be treated
by administering to the wound an article of manufacture comprising a composition of the
invention.
[0418] For purposes of the present invention, wounds include tattoos. Accordingly, a further
aspect of the present invention is directed to a method of tattoo removal, which includes
administering or otherwise applying the A2M composition or an article of manufacture
comprising the A2M composition, to a tattoo.
[0419] A wound dressing can be packaged in a microorganism- impermeable container. Such
packages can represent single or multi-unit dosage forms of the present compositions. These
packages can be used by the subject himself.
[0420] The A2M composition may be used in conjunction with any other conventional wound
treatment, such as negative pressure, warming (therapeutic heat), electrical stimulation,
magnetism, laser phototherapy, cycloidal vibration therapy and ultrasound. It also can be used
with biological therapy such as larva therapy, skin substitutes, cultured keratinocytes (Epicel,
Genzyme biosurgery), human dermal replacement (Dermagraft, Smith and Nephew Inc.),
cadaver derived processed dermis (Alloderm, Life Cell Corporation), Bilayered Skin Equivalent
(Apligraf, Organogenesis Inc.), TransCyte (Smith and Nephew Inc.), Growth Factors (PDGF is
currently the only growth factor licensed for topical use), and fibrin sealant. In some
embodiments, the A2M composition is used in conjunction with negative pressure wound
therapy (NPWT) (one example being the V.A.C., which is a commercially available wound
therapy manufactured by KCI). Negative pressure therapy promotes wound healing by applying
negative pressure to a wound. In these embodiments, A2M composition can be applied to a
wound prior to negative pressure therapy. In yet other embodiments, the A2M composition is
                                                  131

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
used in conjunction with hyperbaric oxygen therapy (Thackham, 2008) or ozone therapy. For
example, the A2M composition can be applied to a wound just prior to a patient receiving
hyperbaric therapy. The A2M composition may also be used in conjunction with low-energy
shock wave therapy (e.g., impulses of about 0.1 mJ/mm2; 5 Hz) per centimeter of wound
length). See, e.g., Dumfarth, et al., Ann. Thorac. Surg. 86:1909-13 (2008).
Subjects
[0421] Any subject in need of treatment for a condition or disease described herein, such as a
subject with a chronic wound, can be treated with any composition or formulation described
herein.
[0422] As used herein, a "condition" or "disease" is any disorder, disease, or condition that
would benefit from an agent that initiates, accelerates, promotes or enhances wound healing
(including acute wounds, dehiscent wounds, and slow-healing delayed-healing and chronic
wounds), reduces inflammation, reduces or lessens scarring, improves scar quality, reduces
fibrosis, and/or reduces adhesions. For example, diseases, disorders, and conditions include acute
wounds. Diseases, disorders, and conditions also include dehiscent wounds, and slow-healing
delayed-healing and chronic wounds. Also included are diseases, disorders, and conditions
characterized by excess production of fibrous material, including excess production of fibrous
material within the extracellular matrix. Also included are diseases, disorders and conditions
characterized by replacement of normal tissue elements by abnormal, non-functional, and/or
excessive accumulation of matrix-associated components. Also included are diseases, disorders
and conditions characterized by adhesion formation. Also included is any disorder, disease, or
condition that would benefit from an agent that promotes wound healing and/or reduces
swelling, inflammation, and/or scar formation (including abnormal and excessive scarring,
including keloid scars, hypertrophic scars, widespread (stretched) scars, and atrophic (depressed)
scars). For example, included are wounds resulting from surgery or trauma, wounds that do not
heal at expected rates (such as delayed-healing wounds, incompletely healing wounds, chronic
wounds, and dehiscent wounds), and wounds associated abnormalities in connection with
neuropathic, ischemic, microvascular pathology, pressure over bony area (tailbone (sacral), hip
(trochanteric), buttocks (ischial), or heel of the foot), reperfusion injury, and valve reflux
etiology and conditions. Also included are diseases, disorders and conditions that would benefit
from enhanced cellular migration, lessened cellular adhesion, scarring and inflammation as
described herein. In some embodiments, a subject can be diagnosed with a condition or disease
                                                   132

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
before or after being diagnosed with a condition or disease, such as by the methods described in
U.S. Patent No.: 7,709,215 and U.S. Publication No.: US 2010/0098684A1. In some
embodiments, a subject can be diagnosed as needing treatment with any of the compositions or
formulations described herein.
[0423] Subjects can include any subject that presents with a chronic wound such as pressure
ulcers, venous ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial
insufficiency ulcers or any combination thereof In some embodiments, a subject can be selected
for the detection of A2M. Subjects can have chronic wounds such as pressure ulcers, venous
ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers or any
combination thereof.
[0424] At the time of treatment, a subject may have been experiencing chronic wounds for 30 or
25 weeks or less. For example, a subject may have been experiencing chronic wounds for 20, 15,
 10, 8, or 6 weeks, or less.
[0425] Subjects can be of either sex and can be of any age.
[0426] A subject can be human or non-human animal. A subject can be a mammal, such as a
mouse, rat, rabbit, cat, dog, monkey, horse or goat. Preferably the subject is human. A subject
can be a non-human primate, rodent, caprine, bovine, ovine, equine, canine, feline, mouse, rat,
rabbit, horse or goat.
Samples
[0427] Any of the autologous compositions described herein can be derived from a biological
sample. Preferably, the autologous compositions described herein are isolated from a biological
sample and suitable for delivery into or onto a chronic wound. Biological samples include blood,
sections of tissues such as biopsy samples, frozen sections taken for histologic purposes, and
lavage samples.
[0428] A biological sample can be a tissue sample or bodily fluid, such as a human bodily fluid.
For example, the bodily fluid can be blood, sera, plasma, lavage, urine, cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF), sputum, saliva, bone marrow, synovial fluid, aqueous humor, amniotic fluid, cerumen,
breast milk, broncheoalveolar lavage fluid, semen, prostatic fluid, Cowper's fluid, pre
ejaculatory fluid, female ejaculate, sweat, tears, cyst fluid, pleural fluid, peritoneal fluid,
pericardial fluid, lymph, chyme, chyle, bile, interstitial fluid, menses, pus, sebum, vaginal
secretion, mucosal secretion, stool water, pancreatic juice, lavage fluid from sinus cavities,
bronchopulmonary aspirate, blastocyl cavity fluid, fluid from a chronic wound or umbilical cord
blood. One or more of the biological sample(s) can comprise a cell, such as a stem cell,
undifferentiated cell, differentiated cell, or cell from a diseased subject or subject with a specific
                                                    133

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
condition. A biological sample can be blood, a cell, a population of cells, a quantity of tissue,
fluid, or a sample from a chronic wound. A biological sample can comprise cells from
cartilaginous tissue or can be free of cells. A biological sample can be substantially depleted of a
common serum protein, such as, but not limited to, albumin or IgG. Depletion can comprise
filtration, fractionation, or affinity purification. A biological sample can be from animal, such as
a mammal, for example, a human, non-human primate, rodent, caprine, bovine, ovine, equine,
canine, feline, mouse, rat, rabbit, horse or goat
Pooled samples
[0429] In some embodiments, pooled samples can be used to treat a disease or condition, such as
a wound. In some embodiments, two or more samples can be obtained from two or more sources,
such as two or more subjects, and pooled together before or after being processed into the A2M
concentrated compositions described herein. However, such pooled samples should not be
immunogenic to the subject being treated. For example, a first blood sample can be obtained
from a first subject and a second blood sample can be obtained from a second subject. The blood
samples can be processed using a system containing two or more filters as described herein. The
processed samples can be substantially free of blood cells. These samples can be pooled together
and can be used to treat the first subject, the second subject, or a third subject, as long as the
pooled sample is not immunogenic to the subject being treated.
[0430] A sample for the preparation of an autologous composition can be from a single subject.
For example, a blood sample taken from a single subject can be used to prepare an autologous
sample described herein. A sample can also include multiple sample taken from the same
individual. For example, two or more blood samples can be obtained from a subject, and each of
the two or more samples taken from the subject can be used to prepare 2 or more autologous
samples containing a concentrated amount of A2M. These samples can be pooled together and
used to treat the subject from whom they were obtained.
[0431] Samples can also be obtained from two or more subjects, pooled together, and used to
treat one of the subjects from which they were obtained. The samples can be pooled prior to or
after being processed into a composition containing concentrated A2M, such as using a method
or system described herein. For example, blood from two or more subjects can be pooled, or
concentrated A2M samples obtained from two or more different people can be pooled. The
pooled samples can then be used to treat one of the subjects from which they were obtained, so
long as the pooled sample is not immunogenic to the subject being treated with the pooled
samples.
                                                    134

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
[0432] Samples can also be obtained from two or more subjects, pooled together, and used to
treat a different subject than the subjects from whom they were obtained. The samples can be
pooled prior to or after being processed into a composition containing concentrated A2M, such
as using a method or system described herein. For example, blood from two or more subjects can
be pooled, or concentrated A2M samples obtained from two or more different people can be
pooled The pooled samples can then be used to treat a different subject than the subjects from
which they were obtained, so long as the pooled sample is not immunogenic to the subject being
treated with the pooled samples.
[0433] Biological samples can be collected by any non-invasive means, such as, for example, by
drawing blood from a subject, or using fine needle aspiration, swabbing a wound, or taking a
sample from a wound, or needle biopsy. Alternatively, biological samples can be collected by an
invasive method, including, for example, surgical biopsy.
[0434] A biological sample can comprise disease or condition specific proteins. A biological
sample can be from a subject with a disease or condition or from a subject without a disease or
condition. In some embodiments, a biological sample can be from a subject diagnosed with a
disease or condition or from a subject not diagnosed with or without a disease or condition. A
diagnosis can be made by any of the methods described herein. A biological sample can be from
a subject at one time point and another biological sample can be from a subject at a later or
earlier time point, wherein the subject can be the same or a different subject. For example, the
subject may have a disease or condition or have been diagnosed with a disease or condition, and
samples can be taken as the disease or condition progresses. A biological sample can be from a
subject pretreatment and another biological sample can be from a subject at post treatment,
wherein the subject can be the same or different subject. A biological sample can be from a
subject non-responsive to treatment and another biological sample can be from a subject
responsive to a treatment. Biological samples can be from the same or different species. One or
more biological samples can be from the same subject or from a different subject from which
one or more other biological samples were obtained.
[0435] The methods of the invention can be applied to the study of any type of biological
samples allowing one or more biomarkers to be assayed. A biological sample can be a fresh or
frozen sample collected from a subject, or archival samples with known diagnosis, treatment
and/or outcome history.
[0436] The inventive methods can be performed on the biological sample itself without or with
limited processing of the sample. The inventive methods can be performed at the single cell level
                                                 135

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
(e.g., isolation of cells from the biological sample). Multiple biological samples can be taken
from the same tissue/body part in order to obtain a representative sampling of the tissue.
[0437] Any of the method described herein can be performed on a protein extract prepared from
the biological sample. The methods can also be performed on extracts containing one or more of:
membrane proteins, nuclear proteins, and cytosolic proteins. Methods of protein extraction are
well known in the art (see, for example "Protein Methods ", D. M. Bollag et al., 2nd Ed., 1996,
Wiley-Liss; "Protein Purification Methods: A Practical Approach", E. L. Harris and S. Angal
(Eds.), 1989; "Protein Purification Techniques: A Practical Approach ", S. Roe, 2nd Ed., 2001,
Oxford University Press; "Principles and Reactions o/Protein Extraction, Purification, and
Characterization ", H. Ahmed, 2005, CRC Press: Boca Raton, Fla.). Numerous different and
versatile kits can be used to extract proteins from bodily fluids and tissues, and are commercially
available from, for example, BioRad Laboratories (Hercules, Calif), BD Biosciences Clontech
(Mountain View, Calif.), Chemicon International, Inc. (Temecula, Calif), Calbiochem (San
Diego, Calif.), Pierce Biotechnology (Rockford, Ill.), and Invitrogen Corp. (Carlsbad, Calif.).
After the protein extract has been obtained, the protein concentration of the extract can be
standardized to a value being the same as that of the control sample in order to allow signals of
the protein markers to be quantitated. Such standardization can be made using photometric or
spectrometric methods or gel electrophoresis.
[0438] Any of the method described herein can be performed on nucleic acid molecules
extracted from the biological sample. For example, RNA can be extracted from the sample
before analysis. Methods of RNA extraction are well known in the art (see, for example, J.
Sambrook et al., "Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual", 1989, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.). Most methods of RNA isolation from
bodily fluids or tissues are based on the disruption of the tissue in the presence of protein
denaturants to quickly and effectively inactivate RNAses. Isolated total RNA can then be further
purified from the protein contaminants and concentrated by selective ethanol precipitations,
phenol/chloroform extractions followed by isopropanol precipitation or cesium chloride, lithium
chloride or cesium trifluoroacetate gradient centrifugations. Kits are also available to extract
RNA (i.e., total RNA or mRNA) from bodily fluids or tissues and are commercially available
from, for example, Ambion, Inc. (Austin, Tex.), Amersham Biosciences (Piscataway, N.J.), BD
Biosciences Clontech (Palo Alto, Calif.), BioRad Laboratories (Hercules, Calif.), GIBCO BRL
(Gaithersburg, Md.), and Qiagen, Inc. (Valencia, Calif).
[0439] After extraction, mRNA can be amplified, and transcribed into cDNA, which can then
serve as template for multiple rounds of transcription by the appropriate RNA polymerase.
                                                  136

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
Amplification methods are well known in the art (see, for example, A. R. Kimmel and S. L.
Berger, Methods Enzymol. 1987, 152: 307-316; J. Sambrook et al., "Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual", 1989, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press: New York; "Short
Protocols in Molecular Biology", F. M. Ausubel (Ed.), 2002, 5th Ed., John Wiley & Sons; U.S.
Pat. Nos. 4,683,195; 4,683,202 and 4,800,159). Reverse transcription reactions can be carried out
using non-specific primers, such as an anchored oligo-dT primer, or random sequence primers,
or using a target-specific primer complementary to the RNA for each probe being monitored, or
using thermostable DNA polymerases (such as avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase
or Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase).
Other Embodiments
[0440] Disclosed herein are molecules, materials, compositions, and components that can be
used for, can be used in conjunction with, can be used in preparation for, or are products of
methods and compositions disclosed herein. It is understood that when combinations, subsets,
interactions, groups, etc. of these materials are disclosed and while specific reference of each
various individual and collective combinations and permutation of these molecules and
compounds cannot be explicitly disclosed, each is specifically contemplated and described
herein. For example, if a nucleotide or nucleic acid is disclosed and discussed and a number of
modifications that can be made to a number of molecules including the nucleotide or nucleic acid
are discussed, each and every combination and permutation of nucleotide or nucleic acid and the
modifications that are possible are specifically contemplated unless specifically indicated to the
contrary. This concept applies to all aspects of this application including, but not limited to, steps
in methods of making and using the disclosed molecules and compositions. Thus, if there are a
variety of additional steps that can be performed it is understood that each of these additional
steps can be performed with any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the
disclosed methods, and that each such combination is specifically contemplated and should be
considered disclosed.
[0441] Those skilled in the art can recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the method and compositions
described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.
[0442] It is understood that the disclosed methods and compositions are not limited to the
particular methodology, protocols, and reagents described as these can vary. It is also to be
understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure which can be
limited only by the appended claims.
                                                  137

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
[0443] Various modifications and variations of the described method and system of the invention
will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the
invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments,
it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such
specific embodiments. Indeed, various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the
invention that are obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope of the
invention. Other embodiments are in the claims.
[0444] Unless otherwise explained, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure
belongs. The following references contain embodiments of the methods and compositions that
can be used herein: The Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy, 18th Edition, published by
Merck Research Laboratories, 2006 (ISBN 0-911910-18-2); Benjamin Lewin, Genes IX,
published by Jones & Bartlett Publishing, 2007 (ISBN-13: 9780763740634); Kendrew et al.
(eds.), The Encyclopedia of Mol. Biology, published by Blackwell Science Ltd., 1994 (ISBN 0
632-02182-9); and Robert A. Meyers (ed.), Mol. Biology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive
Desk Reference, published by VCH Publishers, Inc., 1995 (ISBN 1-56081-569-8).
[0445] Standard procedures of the present disclosure are described, e.g., in Maniatis et al.,
Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, N.Y., USA (1982); Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2 ed.),
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., USA (1989); Davis et al.,
Basic Methods in Molecular Biology, Elsevier Science Publishing, Inc., New York, USA (1986);
or Methods in Enzymology: Guide to Molecular Cloning Techniques Vol. 152, S. L. Berger and
A. R. Kimmerl (eds.), Academic Press Inc., San Diego, USA (1987)). Current Protocols in
Molecular Biology (CPMB) (Fred M. Ausubel, et al. ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc.), Current
Protocols in Protein Science (CPPS) (John E. Coligan, et. al., ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc.),
Current Protocols in Immunology (CPI) (John E. Coligan, et. al., ed. John Wiley and Sons, Inc.),
Current Protocols in Cell Biology (CPCB) (Juan S. Bonifacino et. al. ed., John Wiley and Sons,
Inc.), Culture of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique by R. Ian Freshney, Publisher:
Wiley-Liss; 5th edition (2005), and Animal Cell Culture Methods (Methods in Cell Biology,
Vol. 57, Jennie P. Mather and David Barnes editors, Academic Press, 1st edition, 1998), which
are all incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
[0446] It should be understood that the following examples should not be construed as being
limiting to the particular methodology, protocols, and compositions, etc., described herein and,
                                                  138

 WO 2015/031654                                                            PCT/US2014/053223
as such, can vary. The following terms used herein are for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only, and are not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.
                                          EXAMPLES
Example 1
[0447] A study was conducted to define the cell composition and Alpha-2-Macroglobulin (A2M)
concentrations of concentrated plasma products using different methods of production.
Concentrated products were produced by
    1. pre-mixing RBC-reduced (RBC-R) PRP and PPP before filter concentration,
    2. post-mixing RBC-reduced PRP with filter concentrated PPP, or
    3. adapting a centrifuge for an Autologous Platelet Integrated Concentrate (APIC) 50ml
       conical and filter-concentrating the PRP obtained.
[0448] Concentration was performed with each method using a Hemacor Polysulphone
Hemaconcentrator Junior (APIC-HL HPH-Jr) or APIC-HH filter. The platelet, red blood cell,
and white blood cells were counted in each product and their intermediates. A2M concentration
was obtained by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) for each product as well.
[0449] From the study, it was concluded that:
    1. Concentrated products made with the APIC-HH filter had higher concentrations of
       platelets and A2M than in the HPH-Jr in each method.
    2. The highest A2M concentration achieved was by pre-mixing RBC-R and PPP then
       concentrating on the APIC-HH filter (~3.5x A2M over PPP, ~7x A2M over WB). The
       HPH-Jr filter had approximately a 2x drop in A2M concentration with the same protocol
        (~2.5x A2M over PPP, ~5x A2M over WB)
    3. Post-mixing the RBC-R and concentrated PPP resulted in significantly reduced levels of
       platelet and A2M, (1-2.5X less than pre-mixing).
    4. Centrifuging a 50ml conical within the parameters of a centrifuge resulted in an ~1 8min
        spin time as well as much increased WBC concentrations (1-1.5X of whole blood)
       compared to their RBCR counterparts.
Example 2
[0450] Protocol
    1. Autologous Blood Harvest
            a. Prepare a 60ml syringes containing 7.5ml sterile ACDA.
            b. Perform venipuncture and autologous blood harvest into syringes.
            c. Draw blood until a total volume of 50ml is achieved. (42.5ml blood + 7.5ml
                ACDA   =  48ml Vf, 15% ACDA)
                                               139

WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
                  i. Transfer 5ml of WB+ACDA to a 10ml falcon tube using a blunt-ended
                      canula for later analysis.
  2. Production of Plasma
          a. Transfer the 45ml whole blood +ACDA to a centrifuge tube using a blunt-ended
             canula. Careful that the centrifuge is balanced before spinning-you will need
             another centrifuge tube full of 47.7ml water. The specific density of blood is
             -1.06.
         b. Centrifuge blood with the "PRP" setting (4 minutes, 1280xg, brake 3).
         c.  Carefully remove the centrifuge tubes and place vertically in the tube holder.
          d. Attach a spinal needle to a 20ml syringe and slowly draw 17.5ml of plasma from
             about 1cm above the buffy coat. Be careful not to draw up any of the buffy coat
             into the syringe. This will be Syringe #1 in Figs. 4-6.
                  i. Transfer 2.5ml of plasma to a 10ml falcon tube for later analysis.
  3. Prime the APIC-PRP system
          a. Adjust stopcock #1 so that the off position blocks access to the unused port.
         b. Adjust stopcock #2 to prevent access to Syringe #2.
         c.  All syringes should be in the completely compressed state to prevent additional
             unwanted air in the system.
          d. Tap Syringe #1 with Plasma to get all air bubbles to the top. Remove the cap.
          e. Holding the APIC-filter setup at an angle with Syringe #3 at the top, attach
             Syringe #1 with Plasma to the APIC-PRP filter.
          f. Slowly push the Plasma from Syringe #1 into the filter until the sterile air from
             the filter and a few milliliters of plasma are in Syringe #3. The filter should be
             devoid of air now. Compress Syringe #3 until the plasma has just returned to
             stopcock #2.
          g. Rotate stopcock #2 to block Syringe #3 (sterile air) and expose Syringe #2.
         h. Pull back the plunger of Syringe #4 slightly to create a slight space for filtrate to
             enter.
          i. Attach the APIC Kit to the Styrofoam block to allow easy pumping action.
  4. Production of APIC-PRP
         j.  Sequentially compress Syringes #1 and #2 to process Plasma over the filter.
             Filtrate will soon fill the inner filtrate chamber of the filter and migrate into
             Syringe #4.
                                                 140

 WO 2015/031654                                                                   PCT/US2014/053223
                       i. Monitor Syringe #4 for progress. If the plunger does not migrate during
                           processing a slight pull outwards will help it get started.
            k. If air bubbles are still in the system during processing, tilt the system so they
                 migrate into Syringe #2. During processing, do not compress Syringe #2
                 completely to avoid injecting air bubbles into the filter. It is much easier to
                 remove large air bubbles later than micro-bubbles caused by processing bubbles
                 through a filter.
            1. As needed, unlock Syringe #4 and pull back slightly to create room for additional
                 filtrate.
            m. Continue processing plasma into APIC until the desired amount of concentration
                 is achieved.
                       i. System void-volume is ~2ml.
                      ii. For a 4x volume concentration, 15ml Plasma-PRP can be processed until
                           ~2ml are in Syringe #1.
            n. Once the appropriate amount of concentration has been achieved, compress
                 Syringe #2 until the APIC has been transferred to Syringe #1.
            o. To remove excess APIC-PRP from the filter, turn the stopcock to block Syringe
                 #2 and allow access to Syringe #3 containing the sterile air. Slowly compress
                 Syringe #3 to push the APIC-PRP in the filter into Syringe #1. Avoid adding air
                 bubbles to Syringe #1.
            p. Syringe #1 containing APIC-PRP can be removed. Tap the syringe to displace
                 any air bubbles to the top for removal. If any micro air bubbles are observed,
                 place the Syringe with APIC upright for 15 minutes until bubbles rise, remove air
                 from syringe. APIC is ready to use.
Example 3
[0451] Blood collection. Autologous blood harvest was performed by venipuncture according to
present IRBs from healthy donors who were at least 18 years of age or older, healthy, over 110
lbs, and not pregnant. Three Patients donated 216ml of whole blood mixed with 24ml of Acid
Citrate Dextrose Solution A (ACDA) anticoagulant (10%) for the preparation of APIC-2 PRP
and PPP in conditions #1 and #2, and 76ml of whole blood mixed with 14ml of ACDA (15%)
for #3, for a total blood donation of 292ml anticoagulated blood. The anticoagulated blood was
used as needed for the following examples.
Example 4
[0452] PreparationofAPIC-2 PRP. Briefly, 60ml of anticoagulated whole blood mixed with
10% ACDA was added to a first port in a vessel. Two ml of ACDA was further added to a
                                                     141

 WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
second port. The vessel was tapped to disperse blood to the bottom of the vessel. The vessel was
then placed into a centrifuge and the centrifuge started and allowed to complete the full cycle
(14min). A 30ml syringe with spacers was used to pull off the PPP contained in a smaller
extension vessel by way of the white port. The PPP was saved for later concentration. The PRP
was mixed and collected by the 20ml syringe without spacers. The final ACDA concentration in
the PRP and PPP was approximately 15%, depending on the total volume of blood tipped. The
amount of analytes in this sample were measured and compared to the measurements of the same
analytes in whole blood, plasma, and APIC-PRP; the concentration of cells platelets, WBC, and
RBC (% of WB); the concentration of A2M; and the concentration of PDGF PP, PDGF ap/pp,
bFGF, VEGF, and TGF- 1.
Example 5
[0453] Red Blood Cell-Reduced PRP (RBC-R). The PRP from Example 3 was further processed
to reduce the amount of red and white blood cells by centrifugation in a 1Oml tube using the
adapter to the current Harvest centrifuge rotor. The PRP was placed in this tube and centrifuged
through the first part of the centrifugation cycle. The centrifuge was stopped manually as it
completed braking, but before continuing to the second part of the cycle. The RBCR-PRP was
removed by syringe to ~1cm above the buffy coat, leaving the packed RBC and WBC in the
tube.
Example 6
[0454] 50ml conical spin. 90ml of whole blood mixed with 14ml of ACDA was added to the 45
ml mark on two 50ml tubes. The tubes were centrifuged in the Harvest centrifuge using a
separate rotor with buckets for 50ml tubes. The buckets were taped to their swinging out
positions to allow for the lid to close and brake without disturbing the tubes. The tubes were
centrifuged for 1.5 cycles (the 14min complete cycle, then restarted for the first part of another
cycle) and manually stopped as the first part of the cycle came to a stop but before the second
part of the cycle resumed. 15ml of PRP was taken 1cm from the buffy coat on each tube and
mixed together.
Example 7
[0455] Concentration of Plasma by APIC-HL (HPH-Jr)or APIC-HHfilters. The APIC-HL
manual concentration was assembled and the void volume of the filter was measured by how
much material went into the filter before coming out the other side (12ml). The APIC-HH Filter
was assembled, with a void volume of 2ml.
[0456] Plasma was concentrated using the following method:
[0457] Holding the filters vertically, plasma was slowly injected from the bottom syringe (30ml
syringe) into the filter. Sterile air from the filter was directed into the side 10ml syringe. Once
                                                     142

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
the filters had been primed with plasma, stop-cocks were adjusted to permit plasma from
between the 20ml and 30ml side syringes. Sequential compressions of the side syringes caused
flow of plasma through the hollow fiber membranes. Filtrate accumulated in the 20ml syringe
attached to the filter, whereas retentate remained in the side syringes. Once compressions were
finished, the filters were held vertically and the stopcock adjusted to allow the sterile air back
into the filter. The 10ml syringe was then compressed to void more of the product into the
bottom syringe. Plasma was concentrated by the APIC-HL until there was nothing left in the
syringes to pump. The final amount of concentrated product was returned to the starting syringe
by voiding the air from the 10ml syringe. Plasma was concentrated by the APIC-HH filter until
there was between 3-5ml left in the syringe. The final amount of concentrated product was
returned to the starting syringe by voiding the air from the 1Oml syringe.
Example 8
[0458] Generation of ConcentratedProducts. For each patient, 4 preparations and 2 50ml spin
conical were made according to the flow charts shown in the Figures. This allows for 6
concentrated products for each patient. For preparation 1, an activated product was made by
mixing the RBCR portion with the PPP, then concentrating on either A) APIC-HL, or B) APIC
HH filter. In preparation 2, the PPP was concentrated on either A) APIC-HL, or B) APIC-HH
filter first, then mixed with the RBCR portion to generate an un-activated product. Finally,
preparation 3 the closest method to APIC preparation was made by concentrating the plasma
containing most of the platelets pulled from the 50ml spin on either A) APIC-HL, or B) APIC
HH filter.
[0459] Cell Counting. Red and white blood cells, and PPP samples were counted by
hemacytometer. Platelets in all samples, except PPP, were counted by coulter counter.
[0460] Volume. The void volume for each filter in a large part determined how much product
was available for use after concentration in procedure 1. In the APIC-HL, the void volume is
 12ml, however only an average of 3.5ml is recovered when the air is voided from the filter. The
large void volume prevents further concentration of the plasma and lowers the amount of
available product. The APIC-HH filter has a void volume of only 2ml, where ~1ml is recovered
in addition to what is concentrated in the syringe. The average recovered from process 1B is 5ml.
Much more product is available during process 2 because the RBCR is mixed after the fact, on
average 9.6ml and 10.5ml for A and B respectively. Process 3 produces the approximately same
volumes as process A given only the centrifugation is different (3.8ml and 4ml for A and B
respectively). A summary of the average volumes obtained at each step are summarized in Table
2.
                                                  143

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
[0461] Cell Counts. RBC and WBC were negligible for all products that went through the RBCR
process. Those that did not (3A and 3B), had small amounts of RBC but elevated WBC (1-1.6
fold over whole blood). The highest concentration of platelets was seen in process 1 using the
APIC filter (lA) for a 4.69X concentration over whole blood. Processes 1A, 2A and 2B had
similar platelet concentrations (3.14-3.97X). This was unexpected in processes 1A and 2A. For
process 1A, given the total volume concentrated only -2X, the platelets concentrated -3X. This
may be an artifact of the low patient number. The platelet fold concentration and A2M fold
concentration is expected follow the volume concentrated to. In process 2A where the high void
volume in the APIC-HL (12ml) would have diluted the RBCR (6-7ml) and should have resulted
in much lower platelet concentrations. However, only 3-4ml of product could be recovered from
the APIC-HL, leading to a much smaller dilution factor. It should also be noted that in all
processes, the RBCR intermediate is higher in platelets than their corresponding concentrated
products. This is due to the removal of the RBC and WBC volumes, leaving more platelets in a
smaller volume. The cell counts for platelets, RBC and WBC for each product and intermediate
are summarized in Table 3.
[0462] A2M Concentration.A2M concentration was measured by ELISA for each PPP, whole
blood, and concentrated product. In all cases, the APIC filter concentrated A2M better than the
APIC-HL in each respective procedure. Pre-mixing with the APIC-HH filter (1B) gave the most
concentrated A2M products (3.44X compared to PPP), followed by premixing with the APIC
HL (lA) (2.67X compared to PPP). Both of these processes result in activated platelets.
Processes 3B and 2B, both using the APIC filter, gave the next highest A2M concentrations
(2.5X and 2.02X). Process 2A was the lowest A2M concentration, very close to plasma levels at
0.93X. This is the result of the lower A2M concentration and lower volume recovery from the
APIC-HL where 3-4ml of concentrated PPP is being mixed with the RBCR at 6-7ml. Therefore,
use of an un-activated product would require the APIC-HH filter to concentrate A2M above
plasma levels.
                                                 144

                                t             ~Y                     f             Ar~"R             50AgIT                                    %               05w                          DAO'iS
                                                                                                      V''K
                                                        47A               *vm:o                     '*.A
                                                                 oq t~.                                                            V        .4
                                                                                                    '&'              o-1'Z                         4,                              It'  1c.3i                          0,~ 01~
      v, tw               Arz~t, V' w    <%                                                             /*.4iw            .
                           VV M4 pod4                                                                                                                       ~                      4                           r
                    Table~~~
                     -    m  ~     P    ~~          2~
                                              mutofPPtknoffomHretcnrfgain
                                                          legen                                                                      lP          m f    ltltrc               rcto        avse             fe
   centrifugation    ml                  =' ml ta7e     4C off     of           cetifgtin                tota     v  ocnrtd=tettlvlm                           4C      dddt          h itrfrcnetain
 mlinsrig          = amutof               cncetrt               reann                             in~         syring                    whe          the cocetato       process is4                          stppd    mladdt4= lo ocnrt
             ~ ~ ~frcton
             the RBC
            added~                    to     Vf prdue                                    = voum      oft~ cocnrt                             nldn  4ocnrt    ha    sntrcvrbe                     rmtefle,       4'dcd
ablen 2f legeduc        -   rdue inmlin PPPy amount ofPPtk no fro                               vestd cenmtigtiomeRr.m]fpaee                                       rc        rcinhavse                    fe

WO 2015/031654                                                           PCT/US2014/053223
                                       4
                                      '1'
                                                   p~p
                                                4> 3:4         4fl~<            3
                                                                                2     N
                                kA           4A 1 4     k%:..'
                     Cs~ 0 0lk K'A         C 0
                                           IIN                  A
               ;~t (<4  4'>
                            *4~     ~~~<'
                                              '
                                                 4
                                                            <"
                                                            C
                                                                    Jt
                                                                    4            l'<8
                          4  <' '4  '<'"4            t     84     '<4 4        
                                                          146

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
[0463] PlateletRecovery. Process 2B resulted in recoverable platelets at 60%, and process 2A
resulted in 51% platelet recovery. Both of these processes result in un-activated platelets and are
due to the lower recovered concentrate volumes which are added to the RBCR intermediate to
make the final product. The APIC-HH filter had a greater percent platelet recovery for activated
products (processes 1 and 2) at 39% for process 1B and 30% for process 3B. In process 1B, there
is ~20% platelet loss at each intermediate step. Moving closer to the buffy coat in the RBCR
intermediate would increase the recovery in that step some. For process 3B, the largest loss of
platelets is due to the inefficiency of the centrifugation step. The APIC-HL had lower platelet
recovery of the activated processes (lA and 3A), potentially due to the large amount of volume
remaining on the filter.
Example 9 - System Overview
[0464] The APIC PRP System (Figs. 24-30) can contain three components for producing APIC
PRP; High Speed Bench Top Centrifuge; Peristaltic Pump w/ Custom Housing; and Disposables
Kit for Collection, Separation, and Administration of APIC PRP. The APIC System can separate
and concentrate a patient's own blood for therapeutic use by a physician. 60cc to 120cc of a
patient's blood can be drawn in to a collection bag, then transferred to centrifuge tubes. The
tubes can be centrifuged and the recovered plasma is then drawn off and transferred to a
concentration bag. The pump can circulate the blood through a Tangential Flow Filter
concentrating the APIC PRP down to a 5cc to 10cc of APIC. The APIC can then be used by
Physicians as they deem necessary and appropriate. The system can include: Industry Standard
Centrifuge and Peristaltic Pump, Private Labeled and Customized for APIC, Low Cost
Disposable with Filtration, Majority of Disposable Components are PPS, Minimal number of
steps. The system can include: Integrated Centrifuge and Pump Separation, Custom Ergonomic
Design, Lower Cost Equipment w/ Smaller Footprint, Lower Cost and Less Disposables, Ease
Of Use = Set It And Forget It
[0465] APIC Cell Free Concentration Kit: No Centrifugation; Direct Connection of Blood
Collection Bag to Concentration Bag; Two Filters
Example 10 - Preparation of blood for autologous therapy
[0466] 120 mL of whole human blood was obtained from a subject by venipuncture. 38 mL
aliquots of the blood were collected into two or more hematologic collection bottles with a
suitable volume of citrate dextrose solution A ("ACD-A") in each collection bottle. The
collection bottles with blood/ACD-A were placed into a fixed angle rotor centrifuge, and
centrifuged at predetermined velocities and times under ambient temperature conditions.
Approximately 15 mL of plasma was aliquoted from each tube with a serological pipette, leaving
                                                   147

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
approximately 1 mL, of plasma above the level of the buffy coat so as not to disturb the
precipitated cells. This process was repeated for the collection bottles in one or more centrifuge
spin cycles to yield a volume 45 mL of total plasma from a total blood draw of 120 mL. The
plasma was pooled into a separate sterile hematologic collection bag. The compositions
described herein can be mixed with pharmaceutical acceptable excipients, before administration
to a subject.
Example 11 - Inhibition of ADAMTS-5- and ADAMTS-4- with A2M
[0467] Bovine Cartilage Explants (BCEs) were treated with 500 ng/ml ADAMTS-5 or
ADAMTS-4 for 2 days, with a 3-fold serial dilution of purified A2M. Concentration of A2M
tested were 100, 33.3, 11.1, 3.7, 1.2, 0.4 pg/mL. The A2M inhibited the proteases in a
concentration dependent manner. The IC50 for inhibiting 500 ng/ml of ADAMTS-5 was
calculated to be -7 pg/ml A2M (a 1:1 molar ratio). Maximum inhibition was observed in ~9 0 %
with 100 pg/ml A2M (a 14:1 molar ratio). The A2M was shown to block formation of Aggrecan
G3 fragments and FAC formation.
Example 12 - Comparison of APIC Retentate and Filtrate
[0468] Wounds are treated with the A2M compositions containing ~7 mg/ml A2M. Wound
healing is efficiently promoted by 1% v/v of the Retentate of the A2M compositions
(concentration of proteins >500 kDa in size), but not by the filtrate (contains proteins <500 kDa),
even at 5% v/v. The enhanced wound healing effects are dose dependent. The inability of filtrate
to protect cartilage from catabolism by ADAMTS-5 demonstrates that the APIC system
concentrates >99% of the protective factors of autologous blood.
Example 13 - Cytokine Profile of Wound Cells Treated with APIC
[0469] Wound cells are treated with or without APIC or recombinant A2M for 2 days and the
activation of the wound cells is monitored by secretion of cytokines and growth factors into the
wound. Wound cells do not show a change in the cytokine profile of the test.
Example 14 - Wound healing effect in rabbit model
[0470] The ability of the Autologous Protease Inhibitor Concentrate (APIC-Cell Free), which
contains concentrated A2M from the blood, or recombinant A2M, is tested to promote wound
healing, in a rabbit model. The rabbit model represents a functional load-bearing in vivo
anatomical model for the evaluation of wound healing, which exhibits mechanical properties,
morphological structures, and healing capacity similar to human tissues. Female 8-12 months old
New Zealand white rabbits are used. Group 1: 6 rabbits receive a wound on the right knee and a
wound on the left knee. Applications of recombinant A2M or Autologous Protease Inhibitor
Concentrate (APIC-Cell Free) are prepared from the rabbit blood, and administered to the wound
                                                148

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
on the right knee one or more days following the wound and saline solution (sham) is
administered to the wound on the left knee one or more days following the wound.
Autologous A2M concentratepreparation
[0471] Prior to the wound, 20mL of blood is removed from each animal in group 1 and is used to
prepare the APIC Cell Free concentrate using a series of filters. Every rabbit receives the
protease inhibitor concentrate from its own blood. After treating the wound, the animal is
sacrificed for macroscopic and microscopic wound healing evaluation to determine healing
advancement and enhancement.
Macroscopic and HistologicalAnalyses
[0472] For macroscopic evaluation, the wound surfaces are analyzed. After macroscopic
examination, wound samples were analyzed for histological (microscopic) evaluation.
Macroscopic evaluation of the wound demonstrates features consistent with enhanced wound
healing. Treatment with APIC Cell Free or recombinant A2M considerably improves wound
appearance. Application of APIC enhances wound healing by 53 +/-20% compared to untreated
controls (mean SEM. p = 0.0086). The concentration of A2M in the APIC Cell Free varies front
5 - 65 mg/ml. There is a dose-dependent correlation between higher concentrations of A2M in
the API Cell Free and enhancement of wound healing on the macroscopic evaluation. The data
suggests that the Autologous Protease Inhibitor Concentrate (APIC-Cell Free), which contains 9
- 10 times the A2M concentration in blood, has an enhanced wound healing effect on a rabbit
model.
Example 15 - In vitro effect of A2M on wound healing
[0473] To test the hypothesis that the addition of proinflammatory cytokines or cartilage
degrading metalloproteinases (ADAMTS and MMP) slow wound healing that will be inhibited
by recombinant or autologous A2M, a controlled in vitro wound healing assay is performed.
Cells from animal wounds are treated with or without proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-a. or IL
 1 ) or cartilage-degrading metalloproteinases (ADAMTS-5, ADAMTS-4, MMP-7, or MMP-12)
in the presence or absence of recombinant or autologous A2M compositions. Wound cells are
incubated 2 days in Serum-Free Media (SFM) with or without 500ng/mL ADAMTS-4 or
ADAMTS-5 and 3 -5pg/mL of MMP-3, MMP-7, MMP-12, or MMP-13. MMP-3 is activated
with chymotrypsin before application on wound cells. For cytokine-induced retardation of
wound healing, wound cells are incubated 3 days in SFM with or without 80ng/ml human TNF-ax
and 8ng/mL humanlL-1p. Wound healing is enhanced with the addition of 100pg/mL of purified
human recombinant or autologous A2M for protease digestion or 5mg/mL recombinant or
autologous A2M for cytokine-induced degradation.
                                                149

 WO 2015/031654                                                           PCT/US2014/053223
[0474] Example 16 - Determination of collagenase activity and inhibition by A2M
compositions
Reagents/Materials
 14073 1NL Wound Fluid (15.34 pg/ml collagenase)
FITC-collagen, Type I (Life Technologies, D12060)
Purified plasma A2M (Molecular Innovations, HA2MG)
 1x TN buffer (50mM Tris pH 7.5, 150mM NaCl)
 lOx TNCB (500mM Tris pH7.5, 1.5M NaCl, 100mM CaCl2, 0.2% NaN3, 0.5% Brijj35)
A2M (Molecular Innovations)
Sample preparation
The wound fluid sample was diluted to prepare the lOx Cf Dil (1:40) by mixing 6.5ul with 254ul
TN on ice (Vf 260ul). A 1/400 dilution was the working concentration. Serially diluted A2M
samples were prepared by mixing 76.8ul of the purified plasma A2M (4.163 mg/ml) with 3. lul
of TN (Vf 80ul, Cf 4000pg/ml) to create sample 1. As shown in the table below, 30ul of this
sample (1) was then added to 60ul of TN (Vf 90ul, Cf 1333 pg/ml) to create sample 2. 30ul of
this sample (2) was then added to 60ul of TN (Vf 90ul, Cf 444pg/ml) to create sample 3. 30ul of
this sample (3) was then added to 60ul of TN (Vf 90ul, Cf 148pg/ml) to create sample 4. 30 of
this sample (4) was then added to 60ul of TN (Vf 90ul, Cf 49.4pg/ml) to create sample 5. 30ul of
this sample (5) was then added to 60ul of TN (Vf 16.5ul, Cf 1333pg/ml) to create sample 6.
                        1         2            3            4            5              6
  Transfer (pL)        30        30            30          30           30             30
  1x TN (pl)           80        60            60          60           60             60
  1Ox Cf dil         4000       1333          444          148         49.4          16.5
  Work Cf Dil         400        133         44.4         14.8          49              17
Digestion
[0475] 160ul FITC-collagen was diluted 1:1 with 160ul TN (Vf 3 50pl) and kept in the dark. The
following were combined in a 96-well black plate.
                        Col - Only         WF             WF + A2M             Vf (PIl)
  WF (p l)                   0              20                 20                200
  10x A2M (pl)               0               0                 20                200
  lOx TNCB (pl)             20              20                 20                200
  WFI H2 0 (PIl)           160             140                120                200
  FITC-Col (pl)             20              20                 20                200
[0476] The microplate was then read using a spectrophotometer at the excitation wavelength of
495 nm and emission wavelength of 515 nm every 20 second interval for 30 mins.
Example 17 - Wound fluid collection technique
                                                150

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
[0477] There are several techniques that were utilized to collect wound fluid. One technique
involved aspirating wound fluid from wet wounds utilizing a syringe. Another technique
involved use of a filter paper to absorb the wound fluid, followed by extraction of the absorbed
wound fluid from the filter paper, such as by washing with a buffer. Another technique involved
running a straight edge tongue blade across the wound and collecting the fluid that gathered in
front of the straight edge, such as with a filter paper.
[0478] For example, human chronic wound fluid is extracted from primary wound fluid dressing
by soaking a single dressing overnight in 5ml phosphate buffered saline pH 4.0 - 6.0 50mM
sodium acetate adjusted to relevant pH with glacial acetic buffer acid pH 7.0 --8.0 0.2M
Tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris) corrected to buffer relevant pH using 0.2M
hydrochloric acid.
Example 18 - Effects of A2M compositions on wound healing in diabetic rats
Summary
[0479] Healing of chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers is a significant clinical problem. This
study examines the in vivo response to the therapeutic recombinant or autologous A2M
compositions according to the present invention. The preliminary animal study on a diabetic rat
model with impaired wound healing is conducted comparing the recombinant or autologous
A2M compositions described herein with distilled water. As a result, the time to complete
closure of wounds is lower in the A2M treated group. The difference in wound healing since day
9 ta of the treatment is apparent. The A2M treated animals have lower scar tissues and the fur
growth is complete. In water-treated animals a scar with impaired fur growth is apparent. The
results of this study suggest that dermal use of these A2M compositions have a potential to
modulate wound healing and stimulate fur growth.
Methods
[0480] The animal model for in vivo testing of the recombinant or autologous A2M
compositions is a full-thickness wound in the dorsal skin of diabetic rats. Wistar rats weighing
200-250 g are used. Animals are caged in separate cages. Diabetes is induced by administration
of streptozotocin (Sigma-Aldrich, UK). Streptozotocin is administered at dose of 55 mg/kg
intraperitoneally. Before the administration of streptozotocin, a baseline blood glucose of rats is
determined. After 48 hours, the blood glucose is again measured to ensure rats are diabetic. The
induction of diabetes is confirmed if the blood glucose level is doubled. Glucose is determined
by a Glucometer (Infopia Co., Korea). Determination of blood glucose continues every 5 days to
ensure the subsistence of diabetes. Regarding the entity of streptozotocin-induced diabetes, the
animals which lose much weight and become week, and those with uncertain blood glucose
                                                   151

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
levels are excluded from the study. A total of 14 rats are used with equal numbers in control and
test groups. The test group has a volume of a solution comprising the recombinant or autologous
A2M composition applied and the control group is dressed with distilled water. At time:=( days.,
a full-thickness, circular 15 mm diameter wound is created (e.g., according to Wound Rep. Reg.
2002; 10: 286-294). Rats are anaesthetized by intraperitoneal pentobarbital (55 mg/kg) and the
dorsal skin is prepared for surgery using Betadine. The wound is created using surgical scissors.
At tiine=0 days dressings are placed, as prepared, directly on the wounds. The wounds are
covered by sterile gases and wrapped carefully. Every 2-3 days following surgery, wounds were
redressed with fresh control or test dressings while the rats were under anesthesia.
The wounds are flushed with sterile saline to remove debris and to clean the wound area. A
digital camera is used to take the pictures of the wound. The pictures are examined for wound
healing in terms of wound size and appearance of new fresh epithelium. Once photographed,
fresh dressings are placed on the wounds, and the wounds are covered again. Control of bias is
achieved by assigning a code to each of the experimental groups. Investigators are blinded to the
identity of each of the groups and the test and control have a similar appearance. The code is
broken following completion of the final 4-week analysis.
[0481] In the test group on the 15 1 day of therapy the wound is completely closed and the new,
short fur covers the scar area. On the 2 2" day of therapy the wound is completely healed and the
new, long fur covers the entire scar area. No signs of the previous wound can be seen. In the
control group on the 151 day of therapy the wound is not closed. On the 22"d day of testing the
wound is closed but the scar is still sever and completely naked.
[0482] Wound areas and perimeters are similar in test and control groups; however, there is a
tendency for more rapid closure in the test group, particularly at day 15 where the difference in
wound areas and perimeters is most pronounced. The time to complete closure of wounds is
lower in A2M treated animals. In both control and test groups, wound area begins to decrease at
day   9 and approximately complete wound closure first occurs by day 15" (one out of seven
rats). By day 22"- wounds are essentially closed in both groups but growth of fur in the A2M
treated group is especially complete as compared to the water-treated group.
[0483] The results of this study suggest that dermal preparation comprising the recombinant or
autologous A2M compositions according to the present invention has potential to enhance
wound healing. In addition to accelerating wound closure, A2M treatment in this study appears
to improve the quality of the tissue in the healing wound since the fur grew more efficiently than
in the control group. Chronic wounds are not only characterized by untimely healing and the
inability to remain closed following healing. Thus, time to closure may not be the only relevant
                                                  152

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
end point or sole basis for efficacy of the treatment. Obtaining the healthier scar tissue in the test
group animals treated with the recombinant or autologous A2M compositions allows anticipating
a lowered recurrence rate.
Example 19 - Wound debridement
[0484] Recombinant or autologous A2M compositions are applied to necrotic tissues on pigs for
an in vivo debridement efficacy study. Recombinant or autologous A2M compositions, together
with a debrider, are used to each of the wounds generated (about 2 cm in diameter). After 24
hours, significant wound debridenent is observed on the wounds treated with the A2M
compositions. After 5 days, those with recombinant or autologous A2M compositions show
clean surfaces without any necrotic tissue and complete healing. Debrider treated wounds also
show significant debridement after 48 hours. However, the wounds are not as clean as those
treated with recombinant or autologous A2M compositions, and did not show complete healing
after five days.
Example 20 - Sequences of Modified Recombinant A2M Bait Regions
[0485] Sequences:
SEQ ID NO 1: Wild-type A2M precursor protein - complete vector DNA sequence including tag
sequences for easier purification.
1 CTCATGACCA AAATCCCTTA ACGTGAGTTA CGCGCGCGTC GTTCCACTGA GCGTCAGACC
61 CCGTAGAAAA GATCAAAGGA TCTTCTTGAG ATCCTTTTTT TCTGCGCGTA ATCTGCTGCT
121 TGCAAACAAA AAAACCACCG CTACCAGCGG TGGTTTGTTT GCCGGATCAA GAGCTACCAA
181 CTCTTTTTCC GAAGGTAACT GGCTTCAGCA GAGCGCAGAT ACCAAATACT GTTCTTCTAG
241 TGTAGCCGTA GTTAGCCCAC CACTTCAAGA ACTCTGTAGC ACCGCCTACA TACCTCGCTC
301 TGCTAATCCT GTTACCAGTG GCTGCTGCCA GTGGCGATAA GTCGTGTCTT ACCGGGTTGG
361 ACTCAAGACG ATAGTTACCG GATAAGGCGC AGCGGTCGGG CTGAACGGGG GGTTCGTGCA
421 CACAGCCCAG CTTGGAGCGA ACGACCTACA CCGAACTGAG ATACCTACAG CGTGAGCTAT
481 GAGAAAGCGC CACGCTTCCC GAAGGGAGAA AGGCGGACAG GTATCCGGTA AGCGGCAGGG
541 TCGGAACAGG AGAGCGCACG AGGGAGCTTC CAGGGGGAAA CGCCTGGTAT CTTTATAGTC
601 CTGTCGGGTT TCGCCACCTC TGACTTGAGC GTCGATTTTT GTGATGCTCG TCAGGGGGGC
661 GGAGCCTATG GAAAAACGCC AGCAACGCGG CCTTTTTACG GTTCCTGGCC TTTTGCTGGC
721 CTTTTGCTCA CATGTTCTTT CCTGCGTTAT CCCCTGATTC TGTGGATAAC CGTATTACCG
781 CCTTTGAGTG AGCTGATACC GCTCGCCGCA GCCGAACGAC CGAGCGCAGC GAGTCAGTGA
841 GCGAGGAAGC GGAAGGCGAG AGTAGGGAAC TGCCAGGCAT CAAACTAAGC AGAAGGCCCC
901 TGACGGATGG CCTTTTTGCG TTTCTACAAA CTCTTTCTGT GTTGTAAAAC GACGGCCAGT
961 CTTAAGCTCG GGCCCCCTGG GCGGTTCTGA TAACGAGTAA TCGTTAATCC GCAAATAACG
1021 TAAAAACCCG CTTCGGCGGG TTTTTTTATG GGGGGAGTTT AGGGAAAGAG CATTTGTCAG
1081 AATATTTAAG GGCGCCTGTC ACTTTGCTTG ATATATGAGA ATTATTTAAC CTTATAAATG
1141 AGAAAAAAGC AACGCACTTT AAATAAGATA CGTTGCTTTT TCGATTGATG AACACCTATA
1201 ATTAAACTAT TCATCTATTA TTTATGATTT TTTGTATATA CAATATTTCT AGTTTGTTAA
1261 AGAGAATTAA GAAAATAAAT CTCGAAAATA ATAAAGGGAA AATCAGTTTT TGATATCAAA
1321 ATTATACATG TCAACGATAA TACAAAATAT AATACAAACT ATAAGATGTT ATCAGTATTT
1381 ATTATCATTT AGAATAAATT TTGTGTCGCC CTTAATTGTG AGCGGATAAC AATTACGAGC
1441 TTCATGCACA GTGGCGTTGA CATTGATTAT TGACTAGTTA TTAATAGTAA TCAATTACGG
1501 GGTCATTAGT TCATAGCCCA TATATGGAGT TCCGCGTTAC ATAACTTACG GTAAATGGCC
1561 CGCCTGGCTG ACCGCCCAAC GACCCCCGCC CATTGACGTC AATAATGACG TATGTTCCCA
1621 TAGTAACGCC AATAGGGACT TTCCATTGAC GTCAATGGGT GGAGTATTTA CGGTAAACTG
1681 CCCACTTGGC AGTACATCAA GTGTATCATA TGCCAAGTAC GCCCCCTATT GACGTCAATG
1741 ACGGTAAATG GCCCGCCTGG CATTATGCCC AGTACATGAC CTTATGGGAC TTTCCTACTT
1801 GGCAGTACAT CTACGTATTA GTCATCGCTA TTACCATGGT GATGCGGTTT TGGCAGTACA
1861 TCAATGGGCG TGGATAGCGG TTTGACTCAC GGGGATTTCC AAGTCTCCAC CCCATTGACG
                                                  153

WO 2015/031654                                              PCT/US2014/053223
1921 TCAATGGGAG TTTGTTTTGG CACCAAAATC AACGGGACTT TCCAAAATGT CGTAACAACT
1981 CCGCCCCATT GACGCAAATG GGCGGTAGGC GTGTACGGTG GGAGGTCTAT ATAAGCAGAG
2041 CTCTCTGGCT AACTAGAGAA CCCACTGCTT ACTGGCTTAT CGAAATTAAT ACGACTCACT
2101 ATAGGGGTAC CTGCCACCAT GGGGAAAAAC AAACTGCTGC ATCCAAGCCT GGTCCTGCTG
2161 CTGCTGGTTC TGCTGCCTAC TGACGCCTCT GTGAGCGGAA AGCCCCAGTA TATGGTTCTG
2221 GTCCCGTCCC TGCTGCACAC CGAGACCACA GAAAAAGGGT GCGTGCTGCT GTCTTACCTG
2281 AATGAAACAG TGACTGTTAG TGCCTCACTG GAGAGTGTGC GCGGAAATCG TTCACTGTTC
2341 ACCGATCTGG AGGCGGAAAA CGATGTGCTG CATTGCGTCG CATTTGCTGT GCCAAAAAGC
2401 TCCTCTAATG AAGAAGTGAT GTTCCTGACC GTCCAGGTGA AGGGCCCTAC ACAGGAATTC
2461 AAAAAACGCA CTACCGTTAT GGTCAAAAAC GAGGATAGCC TGGTGTTTGT TCAGACAGAC
2521 AAATCCATCT ATAAGCCTGG TCAGACTGTG AAGTTCCGGG TGGTTAGCAT GGATGAAAAT
2581 TTTCACCCCC TGAACGAGCT GATTCCACTG GTGTACATCC AGGACCCTAA AGGCAACCGC
2641 ATCGCCCAGT GGCAGTCTTT CCAGCTGGAA GGCGGTCTGA AGCAGTTTAG TTTCCCTCTG
2701 AGTTCAGAGC CGTTTCAGGG TTCTTATAAA GTCGTGGTTC AGAAAAAGAG TGGGGGACGT
2761 ACTGAACATC CTTTTACCGT TGAAGAGTTC GTCCTGCCGA AATTTGAGGT CCAGGTGACC
2821 GTTCCCAAGA TTATCACAAT TCTGGAAGAG GAAATGAACG TGAGCGTGTG CGGACTGTAT
2881 ACCTACGGCA AACCAGTGCC TGGTCACGTT ACAGTCAGTA TCTGCCGTAA GTACTCAGAT
2941 GCAAGCGACT GTCATGGCGA AGATTCACAG GCTTTTTGCG AGAAGTTCAG CGGCCAGCTG
3001 AACTCCCACG GTTGCTTCTA TCAGCAGGTG AAAACCAAGG TTTTTCAGCT GAAACGGAAG
3061 GAGTACGAAA TGAAACTGCA TACAGAAGCC CAGATTCAGG AAGAAGGCAC CGTCGTGGAA
3121 CTGACTGGTC GTCAGAGCTC CGAGATTACC CGGACAATCA CTAAACTGAG CTTCGTGAAG
3181 GTTGATTCCC ACTTTCGGCA GGGGATTCCC TTTTTCGGAC AGGTGCGCCT GGTTGACGGG
3241 AAAGGAGTTC CGATCCCCAA CAAAGTGATC TTTATTCGCG GCAATGAAGC CAACTATTAC
3301 AGCAACGCGA CAACTGATGA GCATGGGCTG GTGCAGTTCA GTATCAATAC CACAAACGTG
3361 ATGGGAACCT CACTGACAGT CCGCGTGAAT TATAAAGACC GTTCACCGTG TTATGGCTAC
3421 CAGTGGGTGA GCGAGGAACA CGAGGAAGCC CACCATACCG CGTACCTGGT TTTCAGCCCC
3481 TCCAAATCTT TTGTCCATCT GGAACCTATG TCTCACGAGC TGCCGTGCGG CCATACCCAG
3541 ACAGTGCAGG CACATTATAT TCTGAACGGC GGCACCCTGC TGGGTCTGAA AAAGCTGAGC
3601 TTTTATTACC TGATTATGGC TAAGGGGGGA ATCGTCCGCA CTGGCACCCA CGGTCTGCTG
3661 GTTAAACAGG AAGATATGAA GGGCCATTTC AGTATTTCAA TCCCTGTTAA AAGCGACATT
3721 GCTCCGGTCG CCCGTCTGCT GATCTATGCC GTGCTGCCAA CCGGCGATGT TATCGGTGAC
3781 TCCGCCAAAT ACGATGTGGA GAATTGTCTG GCGAACAAGG TTGACCTGAG CTTTTCCCCC
3841 TCTCAGAGTC TGCCAGCGTC TCATGCACAT CTGCGTGTGA CCGCAGCCCC TCAGAGCGTT
3901 TGCGCTCTGC GTGCAGTGGA TCAGTCCGTG CTGCTGATGA AGCCAGACGC AGAACTGTCT
3961 GCTAGCAGCG TGTATAATCT GCTGCCTGAG AAAGATCTGA CCGGGTTCCC AGGACCTCTG
4021 AACGATCAGG ATGACGAAGA CTGTATTAAT CGCCACAACG TGTATATTAA TGGGATCACA
4081 TACACTCCGG TTTCAAGCAC CAACGAAAAA GATATGTACA GCTTCCTGGA GGACATGGGT
4141 CTGAAAGCGT TTACCAATTC CAAGATCCGG AAACCCAAGA TGTGCCCACA GCTGCAGCAG
4201 TATGAAATGC ACGGACCTGA GGGTCTGCGT GTGGGCTTTT ACGAATCTGA TGTGATGGGA
4261 CGTGGTCATG CACGTCTGGT TCATGTCGAG GAACCACACA CCGAAACAGT GCGTAAATAC
4321 TTCCCTGAGA CCTGGATTTG GGACCTGGTT GTGGTGAACT CCGCGGGTGT GGCAGAAGTG
4381 GGTGTTACCG TCCCGGATAC TATTACCGAA TGGAAAGCAG GTGCCTTCTG TCTGTCTGAG
4441 GATGCAGGGC TGGGAATCTC CTCTACAGCC TCTCTGCGCG CGTTTCAGCC CTTTTTCGTC
4501 GAACTGACTA TGCCATATAG CGTGATTCGT GGCGAGGCAT TCACTCTGAA AGCTACCGTG
4561 CTGAATTACC TGCCCAAGTG CATCCGCGTG AGCGTGCAGC TGGAAGCTAG TCCCGCCTTT
4621 CTGGCGGTCC CAGTGGAGAA GGAACAGGCA CCGCACTGCA TTTGTGCTAA CGGCCGGCAG
4681 ACTGTTTCCT GGGCCGTCAC CCCCAAATCT CTGGGTAATG TGAACTTCAC CGTTTCAGCA
4741 GAGGCTCTGG AAAGCCAGGA GCTGTGCGGC ACCGAAGTCC CATCCGTGCC TGAGCATGGT
4801 CGCAAAGATA CAGTCATCAA GCCTCTGCTG GTTGAACCGG AAGGCCTGGA GAAGGAAACT
4861 ACCTTTAATT CTCTGCTGTG CCCAAGTGGC GGTGAAGTGT CCGAGGAACT GTCTCTGAAA
4921 CTGCCGCCCA ACGTGGTCGA GGAATCTGCC CGTGCGTCAG TTAGCGTCCT GGGGGATATT
4981 CTGGGAAGTG CCATGCAGAA TACCCAGAAC CTGCTGCAGA TGCCGTATGG CTGTGGCGAG
5041 CAGAATATGG TTCTGTTTGC GCCCAACATC TATGTCCTGG ATTACCTGAA TGAAACACAG
5101 CAGCTGACTC CTGAAATCAA AAGCAAGGCA ATCGGGTATC TGAATACCGG ATACCAGCGG
5161 CAGCTGAACT ATAAGCACTA CGACGGCTCC TATTCTACCT TCGGCGAACG GTACGGTCGC
5221 AATCAGGGGA ACACTTGGCT GACCGCCTTT GTGCTGAAAA CCTTTGCCCA GGCTCGCGCC
5281 TATATCTTTA TTGATGAGGC CCATATTACA CAGGCGCTGA TCTGGCTGTC ACAGCGCCAG
5341 AAGGACAACG GGTGTTTCCG TAGTTCAGGA AGCCTGCTGA ACAATGCCAT CAAAGGCGGC
5401 GTCGAGGATG AAGTGACACT GAGCGCATAC ATTACTATCG CTCTGCTGGA AATCCCTCTG
5461 ACAGTGACTC ACCCGGTGGT TCGCAATGCT CTGTTTTGCC TGGAAAGTGC ATGGAAAACA
5521 GCTCAGGAAG GCGATCACGG ATCACACGTG TATACTAAGG CACTGCTGGC GTACGCATTC
5581 GCTCTGGCCG GCAACCAGGA TAAACGTAAA GAAGTGCTGA AATCACTGAA TGAGGAAGCA
                                      154

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
5641  GTTAAAAAGG   ACAACAGCGT    CCACTGGGAA      CGGCCGCAGA      AACCCAAGGC TCCAGTGGGT
5701  CACTTTTATG   AGCCTCAGGC    ACCGAGTGCT      GAGGTGGAAA      TGACCTCATA TGTTCTGCTG
5761  GCATACCTGA   CCGCACAGCC    TGCCCCCACA      TCAGAAGATC      TGACAAGCGC CACTAATATT
5821  GTGAAATGGA   TCACCAAGCA    GCAGAACGCG      CAGGGCGGTT      TTAGCTCCAC CCAGGACACA
5881  GTCGTGGCAC   TGCACGCTCT    GTCTAAATAT      GGGGCAGCTA      CCTTCACACG CACTGGAAAG
5941  GCCGCGCAAG   TGACTATTCA    GTCTAGTGGC     ACCTTTTCAA       GCAAGTTCCA GGTGGATAAC
6001  AATAACCGTC   TGCTGCTGCA    GCAGGTGTCC      CTGCCCGAAC      TGCCAGGCGA GTACTCTATG
6061  AAAGTCACTG   GGGAAGGATG    CGTGTATCTG      CAGACCTCCC      TGAAATACAA TATTCTGCCC
6121  GAGAAAGAAG   AATTTCCATT    CGCACTGGGC      GTGCAGACCC      TGCCTCAGAC ATGCGATGAA
6181  CCGAAGGCTC   ATACTTCTTT    TCAGATCAGT      CTGTCAGTGA      GCTATACCGG GTCCCGCTCT
6241  GCCAGTAACA   TGGCGATTGT    GGATGTGAAA     ATGGTGAGTG       GATTCATCCC TCTGAAACCG
6301  ACTGTGAAGA   TGCTGGAACG    GAGTAATCAC      GTTTCACGCA      CCGAGGTCTC CTCTAACCAT
6361  GTGCTGATCT   ACCTGGATAA    AGTGTCCAAT      CAGACACTGT      CTCTGTTTTT CACTGTGCTG
6421  CAGGATGTCC   CCGTGCGTGA    CCTGAAACCA      GCCATTGTTA      AGGTCTATGA TTATTACGAA
6481  ACCGACGAGT   TCGCGATCGC    AGAATACAAC      GCGCCGTGCA      GCAAAGACCT GGGGAATGCT
6541  GACTACAAGG   ACGACGACGA    CAAGGGGGCA     AGCCACCACC       ATCACCATCA CTAAGGATCC
6601  AAAATCAGCC   TCGACTGTGC    CTTCTAGTTG      CCAGCCATCT      GTTGTTTGCC CCTCCCCCGT
6661  GCCTTCCTTG   ACCCTGGAAG    GTGCCACTCC      CACTGTCCTT      TCCTAATAAA ATGAGGAAAT
6721  TGCATCACAA   CACTCAACCC    TATCTCGGTC      TATTCTTTTG      ATTTATAAGG GATTTTGCCG
6781  ATTTCGGCCT   ATTGGTTAAA    AAATGAGCTG     ATTTAACAAA       AATTTAACGC GAATTAATTC
6841  TGTGGAATGT   GTGTCAGTTA    GGGTGTGGAA     AGTCCCCAGG       CTCCCCAGCA GGCAGAAGTA
6901  TGCAAAGCAT   GCATCTCAAT    TAGTCAGCAA      CCAGGTGTGG      AAAGTCCCCA GGCTCCCCAG
6961  CAGGCAGAAG   TATGCAAAGC    ATGCATCTCA     ATTAGTCAGC       AACCATAGTC CCGCCCCTAA
7021  CTCCGCCCAT   CCCGCCCCTA    ACTCCGCCCA      GTTCCGCCCA      TTCTCCGCCC CATGGCTGAC
7081  TAATTTTTTT   TATTTATGCA    GAGGCCGAGG      CCGCCTCTGC      CTCTGAGCTA TTCCAGAAGT
7141  AGTGAGGAGG   CTTTTTTGGA    GGCCTAGGCT      TTTGCAAAAA      GCTCCCGGGA GCTTGTATAT
7201  CCATTTTCGG   ATCTGATCAG    CACGTGTTGA      CAATTAATCA      TCGGCATAGT ATATCGGCAT
7261  AGTATAATAC   GACAAGGTGA    GGAACTAAAC      CATGGCCAAG      CCTTTGTCTC AAGAAGAATC
7321  CACCCTCATT   GAAAGAGCAA    CGGCTACAAT      CAACAGCATC      CCCATCTCTG AAGACTACAG
7381  CGTCGCCAGC   GCAGCTCTCT    CTAGCGACGG      CCGCATCTTC      ACTGGTGTCA ATGTATATCA
7441  TTTTACTGGG   GGACCTTGTG    CAGAACTCGT      GGTGCTGGGC      ACTGCTGCTG CTGCGGCAGC
7501  TGGCAACCTG   ACTTGTATCG    TCGCGATCGG     AAATGAGAAC       AGGGGCATCT TGAGCCCCTG
7561  CGGACGGTGC   CGACAGGTGC    TTCTCGATCT      GCATCCTGGG      ATCAAAGCCA TAGTGAAGGA
7621  CAGTGATGGA   CAGCCGACGG    CAGTTGGGAT      TCGTGAATTG      CTGCCCTCTG GTTATGTGTG
7681  GGAGGGCTAA   CACGTGCTAC    GAGATTTCGA      TTCCACCGCC      GCCTTCTATG AAAGGTTGGG
7741  CTTCGGAATC   GTTTTCCGGG    ACGCCGGCTG      GATGATCCTC      CAGCGCGGGG ATCTCATGCT
7801  GGAGTTCTTC   GCCCACCCCA    ACTTGTTTAT      TGCAGCTTAT      AATGGTTACA AATAAAGCAA
7861  TAGCATCACA   AATTTCACAA    ATAAAGCATT      TTTTTCACTG      CATTCTAGTT GTGGTTTGTC
7921  CAAACTCATC   AATGTATCTT    ATCATGTCTG      TATACCGTCG      ACCTCTAGCT AGAGCTTGGC
7981  GTAATCATGG   TCATTACCAA    TGCTTAATCA      GTGAGGCACC      TATCTCAGCG ATCTGTCTAT
8041  TTCGTTCATC   CATAGTTGCC    TGACTCCCCG      TCGTGTAGAT      AACTACGATA CGGGAGGGCT
8101  TACCATCTGG   CCCCAGCGCT    GCGATGATAC      CGCGAGAACC      ACGCTCACCG GCTCCGGATT
8161  TATCAGCAAT   AAACCAGCCA    GCCGGAAGGG      CCGAGCGCAG      AAGTGGTCCT GCAACTTTAT
8221  CCGCCTCCAT   CCAGTCTATT    AATTGTTGCC      GGGAAGCTAG      AGTAAGTAGT TCGCCAGTTA
8281  ATAGTTTGCG   CAACGTTGTT    GCCATCGCTA      CAGGCATCGT      GGTGTCACGC TCGTCGTTTG
8341  GTATGGCTTC   ATTCAGCTCC    GGTTCCCAAC      GATCAAGGCG      AGTTACATGA TCCCCCATGT
8401  TGTGCAAAAA   AGCGGTTAGC    TCCTTCGGTC      CTCCGATCGT      TGTCAGAAGT AAGTTGGCCG
8461  CAGTGTTATC   ACTCATGGTT    ATGGCAGCAC      TGCATAATTC      TCTTACTGTC ATGCCATCCG
8521  TAAGATGCTT   TTCTGTGACT    GGTGAGTACT      CAACCAAGTC      ATTCTGAGAA TAGTGTATGC
8581  GGCGACCGAG   TTGCTCTTGC    CCGGCGTCAA      TACGGGATAA      TACCGCGCCA CATAGCAGAA
8641  CTTTAAAAGT   GCTCATCATT    GGAAAACGTT      CTTCGGGGCG      AAAACTCTCA AGGATCTTAC
8701  CGCTGTTGAG   ATCCAGTTCG    ATGTAACCCA      CTCGTGCACC      CAACTGATCT TCAGCATCTT
8761  TTACTTTCAC   CAGCGTTTCT    GGGTGAGCAA     AAACAGGAAG       GCAAAATGCC GCAAAAAAGG
8821  GAATAAGGGC   GACACGGAAA    TGTTGAATAC      TCATATTCTT      CCTTTTTCAA TATTATTGAA
8881  GCATTTATCA   GGGTTATTGT    CTCATGAGCG      GATACATATT      TGAATGTATT TAGAAAAATA
8941  AACAAATAGG   GGTCAGTGTT    ACAACCAATT     AACCAATTCT       GAACATTATC GCG
SEQ ID NO 2: Complete vector DNA sequence of the of the acceptor mutant.
1 CTCATGACCA AAATCCCTTA ACGTGAGTTA CGCGCGCGTC GTTCCACTGA GCGTCAGACC
61 CCGTAGAAAA GATCAAAGGA TCTTCTTGAG ATCCTTTTTT TCTGCGCGTA ATCTGCTGCT
121 TGCAAACAAA AAAACCACCG CTACCAGCGG TGGTTTGTTT GCCGGATCAA GAGCTACCAA
                                                155

WO 2015/031654                                              PCT/US2014/053223
181 CTCTTTTTCC GAAGGTAACT GGCTTCAGCA GAGCGCAGAT ACCAAATACT GTTCTTCTAG
241 TGTAGCCGTA GTTAGCCCAC CACTTCAAGA ACTCTGTAGC ACCGCCTACA TACCTCGCTC
301 TGCTAATCCT GTTACCAGTG GCTGCTGCCA GTGGCGATAA GTCGTGTCTT ACCGGGTTGG
361 ACTCAAGACG ATAGTTACCG GATAAGGCGC AGCGGTCGGG CTGAACGGGG GGTTCGTGCA
421 CACAGCCCAG CTTGGAGCGA ACGACCTACA CCGAACTGAG ATACCTACAG CGTGAGCTAT
481 GAGAAAGCGC CACGCTTCCC GAAGGGAGAA AGGCGGACAG GTATCCGGTA AGCGGCAGGG
541 TCGGAACAGG AGAGCGCACG AGGGAGCTTC CAGGGGGAAA CGCCTGGTAT CTTTATAGTC
601 CTGTCGGGTT TCGCCACCTC TGACTTGAGC GTCGATTTTT GTGATGCTCG TCAGGGGGGC
661 GGAGCCTATG GAAAAACGCC AGCAACGCGG CCTTTTTACG GTTCCTGGCC TTTTGCTGGC
721 CTTTTGCTCA CATGTTCTTT CCTGCGTTAT CCCCTGATTC TGTGGATAAC CGTATTACCG
781 CCTTTGAGTG AGCTGATACC GCTCGCCGCA GCCGAACGAC CGAGCGCAGC GAGTCAGTGA
841 GCGAGGAAGC GGAAGGCGAG AGTAGGGAAC TGCCAGGCAT CAAACTAAGC AGAAGGCCCC
901 TGACGGATGG CCTTTTTGCG TTTCTACAAA CTCTTTCTGT GTTGTAAAAC GACGGCCAGT
961 CTTAAGCTCG GGCCCCCTGG GCGGTTCTGA TAACGAGTAA TCGTTAATCC GCAAATAACG
1021 TAAAAACCCG CTTCGGCGGG TTTTTTTATG GGGGGAGTTT AGGGAAAGAG CATTTGTCAG
1081 AATATTTAAG GGCGCCTGTC ACTTTGCTTG ATATATGAGA ATTATTTAAC CTTATAAATG
1141 AGAAAAAAGC AACGCACTTT AAATAAGATA CGTTGCTTTT TCGATTGATG AACACCTATA
1201 ATTAAACTAT TCATCTATTA TTTATGATTT TTTGTATATA CAATATTTCT AGTTTGTTAA
1261 AGAGAATTAA GAAAATAAAT CTCGAAAATA ATAAAGGGAA AATCAGTTTT TGATATCAAA
1321 ATTATACATG TCAACGATAA TACAAAATAT AATACAAACT ATAAGATGTT ATCAGTATTT
1381 ATTATCATTT AGAATAAATT TTGTGTCGCC CTTAATTGTG AGCGGATAAC AATTACGAGC
1441 TTCATGCACA GTGGCGTTGA CATTGATTAT TGACTAGTTA TTAATAGTAA TCAATTACGG
1501 GGTCATTAGT TCATAGCCCA TATATGGAGT TCCGCGTTAC ATAACTTACG GTAAATGGCC
1561 CGCCTGGCTG ACCGCCCAAC GACCCCCGCC CATTGACGTC AATAATGACG TATGTTCCCA
1621 TAGTAACGCC AATAGGGACT TTCCATTGAC GTCAATGGGT GGAGTATTTA CGGTAAACTG
1681 CCCACTTGGC AGTACATCAA GTGTATCATA TGCCAAGTAC GCCCCCTATT GACGTCAATG
1741 ACGGTAAATG GCCCGCCTGG CATTATGCCC AGTACATGAC CTTATGGGAC TTTCCTACTT
1801 GGCAGTACAT CTACGTATTA GTCATCGCTA TTACCATGGT GATGCGGTTT TGGCAGTACA
1861 TCAATGGGCG TGGATAGCGG TTTGACTCAC GGGGATTTCC AAGTCTCCAC CCCATTGACG
1921 TCAATGGGAG TTTGTTTTGG CACCAAAATC AACGGGACTT TCCAAAATGT CGTAACAACT
1981 CCGCCCCATT GACGCAAATG GGCGGTAGGC GTGTACGGTG GGAGGTCTAT ATAAGCAGAG
2041 CTCTCTGGCT AACTAGAGAA CCCACTGCTT ACTGGCTTAT CGAAATTAAT ACGACTCACT
2101 ATAGGGGTAC CTGCCACCAT GGGGAAAAAC AAACTGCTGC ATCCAAGCCT GGTCCTGCTG
2161 CTGCTGGTTC TGCTGCCTAC TGACGCCTCT GTGAGCGGAA AGCCCCAGTA TATGGTTCTG
2221 GTCCCGTCCC TGCTGCACAC CGAGACCACA GAAAAAGGGT GCGTGCTGCT GTCTTACCTG
2281 AATGAAACAG TGACTGTTAG TGCCTCACTG GAGAGTGTGC GCGGAAATCG TTCACTGTTC
2341 ACCGATCTGG AGGCGGAAAA CGATGTGCTG CATTGCGTCG CATTTGCTGT GCCAAAAAGC
2401 TCCTCTAATG AAGAAGTGAT GTTCCTGACC GTCCAGGTGA AGGGCCCTAC ACAGGAATTC
2461 AAAAAACGCA CTACCGTTAT GGTCAAAAAC GAGGATAGCC TGGTGTTTGT TCAGACAGAC
2521 AAATCCATCT ATAAGCCTGG TCAGACTGTG AAGTTCCGGG TGGTTAGCAT GGATGAAAAT
2581 TTTCACCCCC TGAACGAGCT GATTCCACTG GTGTACATCC AGGACCCTAA AGGCAACCGC
2641 ATCGCCCAGT GGCAGTCTTT CCAGCTGGAA GGCGGTCTGA AGCAGTTTAG TTTCCCTCTG
2701 AGTTCAGAGC CGTTTCAGGG TTCTTATAAA GTCGTGGTTC AGAAAAAGAG TGGGGGACGT
2761 ACTGAACATC CTTTTACCGT TGAAGAGTTC GTCCTGCCGA AATTTGAGGT CCAGGTGACC
2821 GTTCCCAAGA TTATCACAAT TCTGGAAGAG GAAATGAACG TGAGCGTGTG CGGACTGTAT
2881 ACCTACGGCA AACCAGTGCC TGGTCACGTT ACAGTCAGTA TCTGCCGTAA GTACTCAGAT
2941 GCAAGCGACT GTCATGGCGA AGATTCACAG GCTTTTTGCG AGAAGTTCAG CGGCCAGCTG
3001 AACTCCCACG GTTGCTTCTA TCAGCAGGTG AAAACCAAGG TTTTTCAGCT GAAACGGAAG
3061 GAGTACGAAA TGAAACTGCA TACAGAAGCC CAGATTCAGG AAGAAGGCAC CGTCGTGGAA
3121 CTGACTGGTC GTCAGAGCTC CGAGATTACC CGGACAATCA CTAAACTGAG CTTCGTGAAG
3181 GTTGATTCCC ACTTTCGGCA GGGGATTCCC TTTTTCGGAC AGGTGCGCCT GGTTGACGGG
3241 AAAGGAGTTC CGATCCCCAA CAAAGTGATC TTTATTCGCG GCAATGAAGC CAACTATTAC
3301 AGCAACGCGA CAACTGATGA GCATGGGCTG GTGCAGTTCA GTATCAATAC CACAAACGTG
3361 ATGGGAACCT CACTGACAGT CCGCGTGAAT TATAAAGACC GTTCACCGTG TTATGGCTAC
3421 CAGTGGGTGA GCGAGGAACA CGAGGAAGCC CACCATACCG CGTACCTGGT TTTCAGCCCC
3481 TCCAAATCTT TTGTCCATCT GGAACCTATG TCTCACGAGC TGCCGTGCGG CCATACCCAG
3541 ACAGTGCAGG CACATTATAT TCTGAACGGC GGCACCCTGC TGGGTCTGAA AAAGCTGAGC
3601 TTTTATTACC TGATTATGGC TAAGGGGGGA ATCGTCCGCA CTGGCACCCA CGGTCTGCTG
3661 GTTAAACAGG AAGATATGAA GGGCCATTTC AGTATTTCAA TCCCTGTTAA AAGCGACATT
3721 GCTCCGGTCG CCCGTCTGCT GATCTATGCC GTGCTGCCAA CCGGCGATGT TATCGGTGAC
3781 TCCGCCAAAT ACGATGTGGA GAATTGTCTG GCGAACAAGG TTGACCTGAG CTTTTCCCCC
3841 TCTCAGAGTC TGCCAGCGTC TCATGCACAT CTGCGTGTGA CCGCAGCCCC TCAGAGCGTT
                                      156

WO 2015/031654                                              PCT/US2014/053223
3901 TGCGCTCTGC GTGCAGTGGA TCAGTCCGTG CTGCTGATGA AGCCAGACGC AGAACTGTCT
3961 GCTAGCAGCG TGTATAATCT GCTGCCTGAG AAAGATCTGA CCGGGTTCCC AGGACCTCTG
4021 AACGATCAGG ATGACGAAGA CTGTATTAAT CGCCACAACG TGTATATTAA TGGGATCACA
4081 TACACTCCGG TTTCAAGCAC CAACGAAAAA GATATGTACA GCTTCCTGGA GGACATGGGT
4141 CTGAAAGCGT TTACCAATTC CAAGATCCGG AAACCCCAAG ATGTGCCCAC AGCTCGAGCA
4201 GTATGAAATG CACGGACCTG AGGGTCTGCG TGTGGGCTTT TACGAATCTG ATGTGATGGG
4261 ACGTGGTCAT GCACGTCTGG TTCATGTCGA GGAACCACAC ACCGAAAAGC TTCGTAAATA
4321 CTTCCCTGAG ACCTGGATTT GGGACCTGGT TGTGGTGAAC TCCGCGGGTG TGGCAGAAGT
4381 GGGTGTTACC GTCCCGGATA CTATTACCGA ATGGAAAGCA GGTGCCTTCT GTCTGTCTGA
4441 GGATGCAGGG CTGGGAATCT CCTCTACAGC CTCTCTGCGC GCGTTTCAGC CCTTTTTCGT
4501 CGAACTGACT ATGCCATATA GCGTGATTCG TGGCGAGGCA TTCACTCTGA AAGCTACCGT
4561 GCTGAATTAC CTGCCCAAGT GCATCCGCGT GAGCGTGCAG CTGGAAGCTA GTCCCGCCTT
4621 TCTGGCGGTC CCAGTGGAGA AGGAACAGGC ACCGCACTGC ATTTGTGCTA ACGGCCGGCA
4681 GACTGTTTCC TGGGCCGTCA CCCCCAAATC TCTGGGTAAT GTGAACTTCA CCGTTTCAGC
4741 AGAGGCTCTG GAAAGCCAGG AGCTGTGCGG CACCGAAGTC CCATCCGTGC CTGAGCATGG
4801 TCGCAAAGAT ACAGTCATCA AGCCTCTGCT GGTTGAACCG GAAGGCCTGG AGAAGGAAAC
4861 TACCTTTAAT TCTCTGCTGT GCCCAAGTGG CGGTGAAGTG TCCGAGGAAC TGTCTCTGAA
4921 ACTGCCGCCC AACGTGGTCG AGGAATCTGC CCGTGCGTCA GTTAGCGTCC TGGGGGATAT
4981 TCTGGGAAGT GCCATGCAGA ATACCCAGAA CCTGCTGCAG ATGCCGTATG GCTGTGGCGA
5041 GCAGAATATG GTTCTGTTTG CGCCCAACAT CTATGTCCTG GATTACCTGA ATGAAACACA
5101 GCAGCTGACT CCTGAAATCA AAAGCAAGGC AATCGGGTAT CTGAATACCG GATACCAGCG
5161 GCAGCTGAAC TATAAGCACT ACGACGGCTC CTATTCTACC TTCGGCGAAC GGTACGGTCG
5221 CAATCAGGGG AACACTTGGC TGACCGCCTT TGTGCTGAAA ACCTTTGCCC AGGCTCGCGC
5281 CTATATCTTT ATTGATGAGG CCCATATTAC ACAGGCGCTG ATCTGGCTGT CACAGCGCCA
5341 GAAGGACAAC GGGTGTTTCC GTAGTTCAGG AAGCCTGCTG AACAATGCCA TCAAAGGCGG
5401 CGTCGAGGAT GAAGTGACAC TGAGCGCATA CATTACTATC GCTCTGCTGG AAATCCCTCT
5461 GACAGTGACT CACCCGGTGG TTCGCAATGC TCTGTTTTGC CTGGAAAGTG CATGGAAAAC
5521 AGCTCAGGAA GGCGATCACG GATCACACGT GTATACTAAG GCACTGCTGG CGTACGCATT
5581 CGCTCTGGCC GGCAACCAGG ATAAACGTAA AGAAGTGCTG AAATCACTGA ATGAGGAAGC
5641 AGTTAAAAAG GACAACAGCG TCCACTGGGA ACGGCCGCAG AAACCCAAGG CTCCAGTGGG
5701 TCACTTTTAT GAGCCTCAGG CACCGAGTGC TGAGGTGGAA ATGACCTCAT ATGTTCTGCT
5761 GGCATACCTG ACCGCACAGC CTGCCCCCAC ATCAGAAGAT CTGACAAGCG CCACTAATAT
5821 TGTGAAATGG ATCACCAAGC AGCAGAACGC GCAGGGCGGT TTTAGCTCCA CCCAGGACAC
5881 AGTCGTGGCA CTGCACGCTC TGTCTAAATA TGGGGCAGCT ACCTTCACAC GCACTGGAAA
5941 GGCCGCGCAA GTGACTATTC AGTCTAGTGG CACCTTTTCA AGCAAGTTCC AGGTGGATAA
6001 CAATAACCGT CTGCTGCTGC AGCAGGTGTC CCTGCCCGAA CTGCCAGGCG AGTACTCTAT
6061 GAAAGTCACT GGGGAAGGAT GCGTGTATCT GCAGACCTCC CTGAAATACA ATATTCTGCC
6121 CGAGAAAGAA GAATTTCCAT TCGCACTGGG CGTGCAGACC CTGCCTCAGA CATGCGATGA
6181 ACCGAAGGCT CATACTTCTT TTCAGATCAG TCTGTCAGTG AGCTATACCG GGTCCCGCTC
6241 TGCCAGTAAC ATGGCGATTG TGGATGTGAA AATGGTGAGT GGATTCATCC CTCTGAAACC
6301 GACTGTGAAG ATGCTGGAAC GGAGTAATCA CGTTTCACGC ACCGAGGTCT CCTCTAACCA
6361 TGTGCTGATC TACCTGGATA AAGTGTCCAA TCAGACACTG TCTCTGTTTT TCACTGTGCT
6421 GCAGGATGTC CCCGTGCGTG ACCTGAAACC AGCCATTGTT AAGGTCTATG ATTATTACGA
6481 AACCGACGAG TTCGCGATCG CAGAATACAA CGCGCCGTGC AGCAAAGACC TGGGGAATGC
6541 TGACTACAAG GACGACGACG ACAAGGGGGC AAGCCACCAC CATCACCATC ACTAAGGATC
6601 CAAAATCAGC CTCGACTGTG CCTTCTAGTT GCCAGCCATC TGTTGTTTGC CCCTCCCCCG
6661 TGCCTTCCTT GACCCTGGAA GGTGCCACTC CCACTGTCCT TTCCTAATAA AATGAGGAAA
6721 TTGCATCACA ACACTCAACC CTATCTCGGT CTATTCTTTT GATTTATAAG GGATTTTGCC
6781 GATTTCGGCC TATTGGTTAA AAAATGAGCT GATTTAACAA AAATTTAACG CGAATTAATT
6841 CTGTGGAATG TGTGTCAGTT AGGGTGTGGA AAGTCCCCAG GCTCCCCAGC AGGCAGAAGT
6901 ATGCAAAGCA TGCATCTCAA TTAGTCAGCA ACCAGGTGTG GAAAGTCCCC AGGCTCCCCA
6961 GCAGGCAGAA GTATGCAAAG CATGCATCTC AATTAGTCAG CAACCATAGT CCCGCCCCTA
7021 ACTCCGCCCA TCCCGCCCCT AACTCCGCCC AGTTCCGCCC ATTCTCCGCC CCATGGCTGA
7081 CTAATTTTTT TTATTTATGC AGAGGCCGAG GCCGCCTCTG CCTCTGAGCT ATTCCAGAAG
7141 TAGTGAGGAG GCTTTTTTGG AGGCCTAGGC TTTTGCAAAA AGCTCCCGGG AGCTTGTATA
7201 TCCATTTTCG GATCTGATCA GCACGTGTTG ACAATTAATC ATCGGCATAG TATATCGGCA
7261 TAGTATAATA CGACAAGGTG AGGAACTAAA CCATGGCCAA GCCTTTGTCT CAAGAAGAAT
7321 CCACCCTCAT TGAAAGAGCA ACGGCTACAA TCAACAGCAT CCCCATCTCT GAAGACTACA
7381 GCGTCGCCAG CGCAGCTCTC TCTAGCGACG GCCGCATCTT CACTGGTGTC AATGTATATC
7441 ATTTTACTGG GGGACCTTGT GCAGAACTCG TGGTGCTGGG CACTGCTGCT GCTGCGGCAG
7501 CTGGCAACCT GACTTGTATC GTCGCGATCG GAAATGAGAA CAGGGGCATC TTGAGCCCCT
7561 GCGGACGGTG CCGACAGGTG CTTCTCGATC TGCATCCTGG GATCAAAGCC ATAGTGAAGG
                                      157

 WO 2015/031654                                                         PCT/US2014/053223
7621  ACAGTGATGG   ACAGCCGACG    GCAGTTGGGA      TTCGTGAATT  GCTGCCCTCT GGTTATGTGT
7681  GGGAGGGCTA   ACACGTGCTA    CGAGATTTCG      ATTCCACCGC  CGCCTTCTAT GAAAGGTTGG
7741  GCTTCGGAAT   CGTTTTCCGG    GACGCCGGCT      GGATGATCCT  CCAGCGCGGG GATCTCATGC
7801  TGGAGTTCTT   CGCCCACCCC    AACTTGTTTA      TTGCAGCTTA  TAATGGTTAC AAATAAAGCA
7861  ATAGCATCAC   AAATTTCACA    AATAAAGCAT      TTTTTTCACT  GCATTCTAGT TGTGGTTTGT
7921  CCAAACTCAT   CAATGTATCT    TATCATGTCT      GTATACCGTC  GACCTCTAGC TAGAGCTTGG
7981  CGTAATCATG   GTCATTACCA    ATGCTTAATC      AGTGAGGCAC  CTATCTCAGC GATCTGTCTA
8041  TTTCGTTCAT   CCATAGTTGC    CTGACTCCCC      GTCGTGTAGA  TAACTACGAT ACGGGAGGGC
8101  TTACCATCTG   GCCCCAGCGC    TGCGATGATA      CCGCGAGAAC  CACGCTCACC GGCTCCGGAT
8161  TTATCAGCAA   TAAACCAGCC    AGCCGGAAGG      GCCGAGCGCA  GAAGTGGTCC TGCAACTTTA
8221  TCCGCCTCCA   TCCAGTCTAT    TAATTGTTGC      CGGGAAGCTA  GAGTAAGTAG TTCGCCAGTT
8281  AATAGTTTGC   GCAACGTTGT    TGCCATCGCT      ACAGGCATCG  TGGTGTCACG CTCGTCGTTT
8341  GGTATGGCTT   CATTCAGCTC    CGGTTCCCAA      CGATCAAGGC  GAGTTACATG ATCCCCCATG
8401  TTGTGCAAAA   AAGCGGTTAG    CTCCTTCGGT      CCTCCGATCG  TTGTCAGAAG TAAGTTGGCC
8461  GCAGTGTTAT   CACTCATGGT    TATGGCAGCA      CTGCATAATT  CTCTTACTGT CATGCCATCC
8521  GTAAGATGCT   TTTCTGTGAC    TGGTGAGTAC      TCAACCAAGT  CATTCTGAGA ATAGTGTATG
8581  CGGCGACCGA   GTTGCTCTTG    CCCGGCGTCA      ATACGGGATA  ATACCGCGCC ACATAGCAGA
8641  ACTTTAAAAG   TGCTCATCAT    TGGAAAACGT      TCTTCGGGGC  GAAAACTCTC AAGGATCTTA
8701  CCGCTGTTGA   GATCCAGTTC    GATGTAACCC      ACTCGTGCAC  CCAACTGATC TTCAGCATCT
8761  TTTACTTTCA   CCAGCGTTTC    TGGGTGAGCA      AAAACAGGAA  GGCAAAATGC CGCAAAAAAG
8821  GGAATAAGGG   CGACACGGAA    ATGTTGAATA      CTCATATTCT  TCCTTTTTCA ATATTATTGA
8881  AGCATTTATC   AGGGTTATTG    TCTCATGAGC      GGATACATAT  TTGAATGTAT TTAGAAAAAT
8941  AAACAAATAG   GGGTCAGTGT    TACAACCAAT      TAACCAATTC  TGAACATTAT CGCG
SEQ ID NO 3: Amino Acid Sequence of Tagged wild-type human A2M
1 MGKNKLLHPS LVLLLLVLLP TDASVSGKPQ YMVLVPSLLH TETTEKGCVL LSYLNETVTV
61 SASLESVRGN RSLFTDLEAE NDVLHCVAFA VPKSSSNEEV MFLTVQVKGP TQEFKKRTTV
121 MVKNEDSLVF VQTDKSIYKP GQTVKFRVVS MDENFHPLNE LIPLVYIQDP KGNRIAQWQS
181 FQLEGGLKQF SFPLSSEPFQ GSYKVVVQKK SGGRTEHPFT VEEFVLPKFE VQVTVPKIIT
241 ILEEEMNVSV CGLYTYGKPV PGHVTVSICR KYSDASDCHG EDSQAFCEKF SGQLNSHGCF
301 YQQVKTKVFQ LKRKEYEMKL HTEAQIQEEG TVVELTGRQS SEITRTITKL SFVKVDSHFR
361 QGIPFFGQVR LVDGKGVPIP NKVIFIRGNE ANYYSNATTD EHGLVQFSIN TTNVMGTSLT
421 VRVNYKDRSP CYGYQWVSEE HEEAHHTAYL VFSPSKSFVH LEPMSHELPC GHTQTVQAHY
481 ILNGGTLLGL KKLSFYYLIM AKGGIVRTGT HGLLVKQEDM KGHFSISIPV KSDIAPVARL
541 LIYAVLPTGD VIGDSAKYDV ENCLANKVDL SFSPSQSLPA SHAHLRVTAA PQSVCALRAV
601 DQSVLLMKPD AELSASSVYN LLPEKDLTGF PGPLNDQDDE DCINRHNVYI NGITYTPVSS
661 TNEKDMYSFL EDMGLKAFTN SKIRKPKMCP QLQQYEMHGP EGLRVGFYES DVMGRGHARL
721 VHVEEPHTET VRKYFPETWI WDLVVVNSAG VAEVGVTVPD TITEWKAGAF CLSEDAGLGI
781 SSTASLRAFQ PFFVELTMPY SVIRGEAFTL KATVLNYLPK CIRVSVQLEA SPAFLAVPVE
841 KEQAPHCICA NGRQTVSWAV TPKSLGNVNF TVSAEALESQ ELCGTEVPSV PEHGRKDTVI
901 KPLLVEPEGL EKETTFNSLL CPSGGEVSEE LSLKLPPNVV EESARASVSV LGDILGSAMQ
961 NTQNLLQMPY GCGEQNMVLF APNIYVLDYL NETQQLTPEI KSKAIGYLNT GYQRQLNYKH
1021 YDGSYSTFGE RYGRNQGNTW LTAFVLKTFA QARAYIFIDE AHITQALIWL SQRQKDNGCF
1081 RSSGSLLNNA IKGGVEDEVT LSAYITIALL EIPLTVTHPV VRNALFCLES AWKTAQEGDH
1141 GSHVYTKALL AYAFALAGNQ DKRKEVLKSL NEEAVKKDNS VHWERPQKPK APVGHFYEPQ
1201 APSAEVEMTS YVLLAYLTAQ PAPTSEDLTS ATNIVKWITK QQNAQGGFSS TQDTVVALHA
1261 LSKYGAATFT RTGKAAQVTI QSSGTFSSKF QVDNNNRLLL QQVSLPELPG EYSMKVTGEG
1321 CVYLQTSLKY NILPEKEEFP FALGVQTLPQ TCDEPKAHTS FQISLSVSYT GSRSASNMAI
1381 VDVKMVSGFI PLKPTVKMLE RSNHVSRTEV SSNHVLIYLD KVSNQTLSLF FTVLQDVPVR
1441 DLKPAIVKVY DYYETDEFAI AEYNAPCSKD LGNADYKDDD DKGASHHHHHH
SEQ ID NO 4: Amino Acid Sequence of the Acceptor Mutant.
1 MGKNKLLHPS LVLLLLVLLP TDASVSGKPQ YMVLVPSLLH TETTEKGCVL LSYLNETVTV
61 SASLESVRGN RSLFTDLEAE NDVLHCVAFA VPKSSSNEEV MFLTVQVKGP TQEFKKRTTV
121 MVKNEDSLVF VQTDKSIYKP GQTVKFRVVS MDENFHPLNE LIPLVYIQDP KGNRIAQWQS
181 FQLEGGLKQF SFPLSSEPFQ GSYKVVVQKK SGGRTEHPFT VEEFVLPKFE VQVTVPKIIT
241 ILEEEMNVSV CGLYTYGKPV PGHVTVSICR KYSDASDCHG EDSQAFCEKF SGQLNSHGCF
301 YQQVKTKVFQ LKRKEYEMKL HTEAQIQEEG TVVELTGRQS SEITRTITKL SFVKVDSHFR
361 QGIPFFGQVR LVDGKGVPIP NKVIFIRGNE ANYYSNATTD EHGLVQFSIN TTNVMGTSLT
                                                 158

WO 2015/031654                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
421 VRVNYKDRSP CYGYQWVSEE HEEAHHTAYL VFSPSKSFVH LEPMSHELPC GHTQTVQAHY
481 ILNGGTLLGL KKLSFYYLIM AKGGIVRTGT HGLLVKQEDM KGHFSISIPV KSDIAPVARL
541 LIYAVLPTGD VIGDSAKYDV ENCLANKVDL SFSPSQSLPA SHAHLRVTAA PQSVCALRAV
601 DQSVLLMKPD AELSASSVYN LLPEKDLTGF PGPLNDQDDE DCINRHNVYI NGITYTPVSS
661 TNEKDMYSFL EDMGLKAFTN SKIRKPKMCP QLEQYEMHGP EGLRVGFYES DVMGRGHARL
721 VHVEEPHTEK LRKYFPETWI WDLVVVNSAG VAEVGVTVPD TITEWKAGAF CLSEDAGLGI
781 SSTASLRAFQ PFFVELTMPY SVIRGEAFTL KATVLNYLPK CIRVSVQLEA SPAFLAVPVE
841 KEQAPHCICA NGRQTVSWAV TPKSLGNVNF TVSAEALESQ ELCGTEVPSV PEHGRKDTVI
901 KPLLVEPEGL EKETTFNSLL CPSGGEVSEE LSLKLPPNVV EESARASVSV LGDILGSAMQ
961 NTQNLLQMPY GCGEQNMVLF APNIYVLDYL NETQQLTPEI KSKAIGYLNT GYQRQLNYKH
1021 YDGSYSTFGE RYGRNQGNTW LTAFVLKTFA QARAYIFIDE AHITQALIWL SQRQKDNGCF
1081 RSSGSLLNNA IKGGVEDEVT LSAYITIALL EIPLTVTHPV VRNALFCLES AWKTAQEGDH
1141 GSHVYTKALL AYAFALAGNQ DKRKEVLKSL NEEAVKKDNS VHWERPQKPK APVGHFYEPQ
1201 APSAEVEMTS YVLLAYLTAQ PAPTSEDLTS ATNIVKWITK QQNAQGGFSS TQDTVVALHA
1261 LSKYGAATFT RTGKAAQVTI QSSGTFSSKF QVDNNNRLLL QQVSLPELPG EYSMKVTGEG
1321 CVYLQTSLKY NILPEKEEFP FALGVQTLPQ TCDEPKAHTS FQISLSVSYT GSRSASNMAI
1381 VDVKMVSGFI PLKPTVKMLE RSNHVSRTEV SSNHVLIYLD KVSNQTLSLF FTVLQDVPVR
1441 DLKPAIVKVY DYYETDEFAI AEYNAPCSKD LGNADYKDDD DKGASHHHHH H
SEQ ID NOs 5-66: Amino Acid Sequences of Variant Bait Regions.
SEQ ID NO 5: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGKEEEG LGSIPENFFG VSELEGRGSK L
SEQ ID NO 6: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGIPENF FGVSELEGRG SKEEEGLGSK L
SEQ ID NO 7: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGSELEG RGSKEEEGLG SIPENFFGVK L
SEQ ID NO 8: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGKEEEG LGSSELEGRG STAQEAGEGK L
SEQ ID NO 9: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGIPENF FGVFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 10: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGKEEEG LGSFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 11: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGSELEG RGSFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 12: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGEAIPM SIPFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 13: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGTAQEA GEGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 14: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGVSQEL GQRFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 15: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGTEGEA RGSFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 16: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGTSEDL VVQFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 17: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGEGEGE GEGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 18: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGEEGV EEGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 19: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGARGL EGFYESDVMG RGHARLVHVE EPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 20: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGPPGL APGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 21: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGEPEG AKGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 22: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGEEEGG GFYESDVMGR GHARLVHVEE PHTKL
SEQ ID NO 23: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGYPGS SRGFYESDVM GRGHARLVHV EEPHTKLL
SEQ ID NO 24: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGARGL EGGFAGLPNG GEEGVEEGKL
SEQ ID NO 25: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGESESE GGGGGSLLGE FEVEGGFAGL PNGKL
SEQ ID NO 26: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGGFKEG VEGEIEEGGG FKEGVEGKL
SEQ ID NO 27: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGESESE GGFAGLPNGK EEEGLGSIPE NFFGVKL
SEQ ID NO 28: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGIPENF FGVTSEDLVV QEAIPMSIPK L
SEQ ID NO 29: LEQYEMHGPE GLRVGEAIPM SIPTSEDLVV QIPENFFGVK L
SEQ ID NO 30: LEPAGAARGE SESEGGFFGF PIGERESTGG DRGLPIGENE AGGKL
SEQ ID NO 31: LETEGRGERE AQGEFPEVEG EEEGGGPEKE TGGEREAQGK L
SEQ ID NO 32: LEARGLEGGG GGSLLGGYPG SSRGGFKEGV EGGPAGAARG KL
SEQ ID NO 33: LEPGLAPGGE EGVEEGGPEE GVEEGGFKEG VEGEPESSGK L
SEQ ID NO 34: LEEGEARGST AQEAGEGPKE EEGLGSSELE GRGSPVSQEL GQRKL
SEQ ID NO 35: LEAQEAGEGK EEEGLGSPVS QELGQRSELE GRGSPTEGEA RGSKL
SEQ ID NO 36: LEEEEGLGSK EEEGLGSPKE EEGLGSKEEE GLGSPKEEEG LGSKL
SEQ ID NO 37: LEELEGRGSK EEEGLGSIPE NFFGVFYESD VMGRGHARLV HVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 38: LEENFFGVTE GEARGSPTSE DLVVQKEEEG LGSEAIPMSI PKL
SEQ ID NO 39: LEIPMSIPKE EEGLGSIPEN FFGVTEGEAR GSPTSEDLVV QKL
SEQ ID NO 40: LELQQYEMHG PEGLRVGEAI PMSIPIPENF FGVKEEEGLG SKL
                                           159

WO 2015/031654                                            PCT/US2014/053223
SEQ ID NO 41: LEEEGVEEGK EEEGLGSGPA GAARGSELEG RGSPTEGEAR GSKL
SEQ ID NO 42: LEPESSGEAI PMSIPTSEDL VVQIPENFFG VEAEGTGGER GVLGKL
SEQ ID NO 43: LEGGGSLLGE PEPEGEREAQ GGVEGVELGG FKEGVEGEQE GRGKL
SEQ ID NO 44: LESQELGQRE SESEGSELEG RGSGFKEGVE GKEEEGLGSG FFGFPIGKL
SEQ ID NO 45: LEQYEMHGPK EEEGLGSSEL EGRGSEAIPM SIPTIPENFF GVVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 46: LEQYEMHGPS ELEGRGSIPE NFFGVEAIPM SIPTSEDLVV QIVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 47: LEQYEMHGPE GEGEGEGIPE NFFGVSEDLV VQISELEGRG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 50: LEQYEMHGPI PENFFGVSEL EGRGSEAIPM SIPTEGEGEG EGVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 51: LEQYEMHGPS ELEGRGSEAI PMSIPTKEEE GLGSIPENFF GVVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 52: LEQYEMHGPE AIPMSIPTEG EGEGEGIPEN FFGVSEDLVV QIVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 53: LEQYEMHGPS EDLVVQIEGE GEGEGIPENF FGVEAIPMSI PTVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 54: LEQYEMHGPE GEGEGEGISE DLVVQIPENF FGVKEEEGLG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 55: LEQYEMHGPE GEGEGEGIPE NFFGVSELEG RGSSEDLVVQ IVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 56: LEQYEMHGPI PENFFGVEGE GEGESELEGR GSSEDLVVQI VEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 57: LEQYEMHGPS ELEGRGSIPE NFFGVKEEEG LGSSEDLVVQ IVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 58: LEQYEMHGPI PENFFGVSEL EGRGSSEDLV VQIKEEEGLG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 59: LEQYEMHGPK EEEGLGSIPE NFFGVSELEG RGSEGEGEGE GVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 60: LEQYEMHGPS EDLVVQIKEE EGLGSIPENF FGVSELEGRG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 61: LEQYEMHGPS EDLVVQIEGE GEGEGIPENF FGVKEEEGLG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 62: LEQYEMHGPS EDLVVQIEGE GEGEGIPENF FGVEAIPMSI PTEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 63: LEQYEMHGPE GEGEGEGIPE NFFGVEAIPM SIPTSELEGR GSEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 64: LEQYEMHGPE AIPMSIPTSE LEGRGSIPEN FFGVEGEGEG EGEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 65: LEQYEMHGPS ELEGRGSIPE NFFGVEGEGE GEGKEEEGLG SVEEPHTKL
SEQ ID NO 66: LEQYEMHGPI PENFFGVSED LVVQIEGEGE GEGEAIPMSI PTEPHTKL
                                      160

 WO 2015/031654                                                            PCT/US2014/053223
                                            CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.  A method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject, comprising
    administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising
    (a) alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M) isolated from a biological sample from a subject,
        wherein the A2M is present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than the
        concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the subject; and
    (b) plasma, bone marrow aspirate (BMA), or another body fluid from the biological
        sample.
2.  A method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject, comprising
    administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising a variant
    A2M polypeptide or portion thereof.
3.  A method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a wound in a subject, comprising
    administering to the wound an effective amount of a composition comprising an agent that
    inhibits one or more proteins or cells associated with formation of the FAC.
4.  The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the administering comprises topically
    applying.
5.  The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the administering comprises systemically
    administering.
6.  The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein matrix metalloproteinases are inhibited in
    the wound.
7.  The method of claim 3, wherein FAC formation is inhibited or FAC dissociation is
    promoted.
8.  The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is a chronic wound.
9.  The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is a slow healing wound.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is an incomplete healing wound.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is an open wound.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is closed wound.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the wound is characterized at least in part by
    one or more of
    (a) a prolonged inflammatory phase,
    (b) a slow forming extracellular matrix, and
    (c) a stalled or decreased rate of epithelialization.
                                                161

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the chronic wound is characterized at least in part by one
    or more of
    (a) a chronic self-perpetuating state of wound inflammation,
    (b) a deficient and defective wound extracellular matrix (ECM),
    (c) poorly responding wound cells, limited ECM production, and
    (d) failure of re-epithelialization due in part to lack of the necessary ECM orchestration
        and lack of scaffold for migration.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein the chronic wound is characterized at least in part by one
    or more of
    (a) prolonged inflammation and proteolytic activity, leading to ulcerative lesions
    (b) prolonged fibrosis in the wound leading to scarring,
    (c) progressive deposition of matrix in the affected area,
    (d) longer repair times,
    (e) less wound contraction,
    (f) slower re-epithelialization, and
    (g) increased thickness of granulation tissue.
16. The method of claim 8, wherein the chronic wound is a chronic skin wound.
17. The method of claim 8, wherein the chronic wound has not healed within one month.
18. The method of claim 8, wherein chronic wound is selected from the group consisting of
    sores and ulcers.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the ulcers are selected from the group consisting of
    venous ulcers, diabetic pressure ulcers, stasis ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot
    ulcers, arterial insufficiency ulcers, burn ulcers, traumatic ulcers, or any combination
    thereof.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the sores are selected from the group consisting of
    pressure sores.
21. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject has undergone a cosmetic
    procedure.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the cosmetic procedure comprises a cosmetic surgery,
    plastic surgery, breast augmentation, hair replacement, laser skin resurfacing, tummy tuck,
    ear surgery, microderm-abrasion treatment, nose surgery, spider vein treatment, eyelid
    surgery, thigh lift, chemical peel, arm lift, treatment with a dermal filler, chin surgery,
    liposuction, brow lift, facelift, treatment with Botulinum Toxin, skin rejuvenation
    procedure, implantation, tattooing, or any combination thereof.
                                                 162

 WO 2015/031654                                                          PCT/US2014/053223
23. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject is an animal.
24. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject is a mammal.
25. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject is a human pig, mouse, rat,
    rabbit, cat, dog, monkey, frog, horse or goat.
26. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject is a human.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition is autologous.
28. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is not immunogenic to the
    subject.
29. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is a liquid.
30. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition comprises platelets.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition is on a wound dressing.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample is a blood, BMA, or a body fluid.
33. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition comprises one or more
    additional non-blood derived components.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the one or more additional non-blood derived
    components comprise an anti-coagulant, wherein the anti-coagulant comprises EDTA, tri
    sodium citrate, water for injection (WFI), or saline.
35. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition comprises one or more
    additional blood-derived components.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the one or more additional blood-derived components
    comprise platelets.
37. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is substantially free of cells
    and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm or 1pm or more.
38. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is substantially free of red
    blood cells.
39. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is substantially free of
    white blood cells.
40. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition is substantially free of
    platelets.
41. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises a first plurality of non-A2M
    proteins and molecules.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the composition comprises a second plurality of non
    A2M proteins and molecules.
                                               163

 WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
43. The method of claim 41 or 42, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
    molecules
    (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and
    (b) are present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the biological
        sample from the mammal.
44. The method of claim 41 or 42, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
    molecules
    (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight less than about 500 kDa, and
    (b) are present at a concentration of less than about 90%, 70%, 50%, 30%, or 10% of a
        concentration of those proteins in the biological sample from the mammal.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules
    (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and
    (b) are present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the biological
        sample from the mammal.
46. The method of claim 44 or 45, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
    molecules comprise cytokines; chemokines; immunomodulatory mediators, peptides,
    proteins, DNA, RNA, carbohydrates, small molecules; proteases; degradative proteins; or
    any combination thereof.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the cytokines comprise interleukins, tumor necrosis
    factors (TNFs), monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs), macrophage inflammatory
    proteins (MIPs), tumor growth factors (TGFs), matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), or any
    combination thereof.
48. The method of claim 44 or 45, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
    molecules are characterized as having a molecular weight of less than about 100 kDa.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
    characterized as having a molecular weight of less than about 50 kDa.
50. The method of claim 48, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
    characterized as having a molecular weight of less than about 10 kDa.
51. The method of claim 44-49, wherein the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and
    molecules are characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 50 kDa.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules
    are characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 100 kDa.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules
    are characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 500 kDa.
                                                164

WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
54. The method of claim 43, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
    characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 50 kDa.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
    characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 100 kDa.
56. The method of claim 55, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules are
    characterized as having a molecular weight of more than about 500 kDa.
57. The method of claim 1, wherein the A2M is present at a concentration of at least 1.1, 1.2,
    1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the
    biological sample from the mammal.
58. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein protease activity is inhibited at a site of
    administration.
59. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the subject has been previously diagnosed as
    having a wound.
60. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the rate of wound healing is increased in the
    subject.
61. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the treating results in a reduction in severity,
    size, infection, or bleeding, or an increase in a rate of progression, of the wound.
62. The method of any one of claims 1-3, further comprising administering one or more
    additional carriers or drugs.
63. The method according to claim 62, wherein the one or more additional carriers or drugs
    steroidal or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, ibuprofen, aspirin, paracetamol,
    glucocorticoids, acetaminophen, hydrocortisone, betamethosone, local anesthetics,
    antimicrobial agents, growth factors, protease inhibitors. an antiseptic, an antibiotic,
    cephalosporins, penicillins, tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, antifungals, sulphadiazine,
    chloramphenicol, erythromycin, vancomycin, trimethoprim, silver, chlorhexidine, povidone
    iodine, triclosan, sucralfate, quarternary ammonium salts, or any combination thereof.
64. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the composition further comprises one or
    more pharmaceutical acceptable excipients.
65. The method of claim 2, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide comprising a bait region, the
    bait region of the variant A2M polypeptide comprising a plurality of protease recognition
    sites arranged in series.
66. The method of claim 65, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide protein is a recombinant
    protein.
                                                 165

WO 2015/031654                                                            PCT/US2014/053223
67. The method of claim 65, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide protein is produced in a
    host comprising bacteria, yeast, fungi, insect, or mammalian cells, or a cell free system.
68. The method of claim 65, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide protein is characterized by
    an enhanced nonspecific inhibition of serine proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine
    proteases, aspartate proteases, metalloproteases, glutamic acid proteases, or any
    combination thereof.
69. The method of claim 65, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide protein further comprises
    PEG with abnormal glycosylation sites.
70. The method of claim 65, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide protein has a longer half
    life than the half-life of a wild type A2M protein when disposed within a chronic wound of
    a subject.
71. The method of claim 65, wherein the plurality of protease recognition sites comprise one or
    more protease substrate bait regions from one or more proteins other than A2M, one or
    more additional protease bait regions from A2M, one or more non-natural protein
    sequences, or any combination thereof, wherein the modified A2M protein is characterized
    by at least a 10% increase in protease inhibitory effectiveness compared to the protease
    inhibitory effectiveness of a wild type A2M protein.
72. The method of claim 71, wherein the non-natural protein sequences comprise one or more
    protease recognition sites that can function as bait for proteases.
73. The method of claim 71, wherein the one or more protease substrate bait regions comprise
    consensus sequences for serine proteases, threonine proteases, cysteine proteases, aspartate
    proteases, metalloproteinases, glutamic acid proteases, or any combination thereof.
74. The method of claim 71, wherein the protease substrate bait regions comprise one or more
    consensus sequences for one or more proteases from one or more organisms.
75. The method of claim 74, wherein the one or more organisms comprise, animals, plants,
    bacteria, yeast, fish, reptiles, amphibians, or fungi.
76. The method of claim 71, wherein one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait
    regions from the one or more proteins other than A2M are the same.
77. The method of claim 71, wherein one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait
    regions from A2M are the same.
78. The method of claim 71, wherein one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait
    regions from the one or more non-natural protein sequences are the same.
79. The method of claim 71, wherein one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait
    regions from the one or more proteins other than A2M or from the one or more non-natural
                                                 166

WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
    protein sequences comprise a suicide inhibitor; wherein the suicide inhibitor is operable to
    covalently attach a protease to A2M.
80. The method of claim 71, wherein one or more of the one or more protease substrate bait
    regions are from different species.
81. The method of claim 2, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide comprises one or more non
    natural bait regions, wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise one or
    more protease recognition sites not present in a wild-type A2M polypeptide.
82. The method of claim 2, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide is characterized by at least a
    10% enhanced inhibition of one or more proteases compared to a wild-type A2M inhibition
    of the one or more proteases.
83. The method of claim 82, wherein the enhanced inhibition comprises enhanced nonspecific
    inhibition.
84. The method of claim 82, wherein the enhanced inhibition comprises enhanced specific
    inhibition.
85. The method of any one of claims 82-84, wherein the protease comprises a serine protease,
    threonine protease, cysteine protease, aspartate protease, metalloprotease, glutamic acid
    protease, or any combination thereof.
86. The method of any one of claims 82-84, wherein the protease comprises MMP1 (Interstitial
    collagenase), MMP2 (Gelatinase-A), MMP3 (Stromelysin 1), MMP7 (Matrilysin, PUMP
    1), MMP8 (Neutrophil collagenase), MMP9 (Gelatinase-B), MMP10 (Stromelysin 2),
    MMP 11), Stromelysin 3), MMP12 (Macrophage metalloelastase), MMP13 (Collagenase
    3), MMP14 (MT1-MMP), MMP15 (MT2-MMP), MMP16 (MT3-MMP), MMP17 (MT4
    MMP), MMP18 (Collagenase 4, xcol4, xenopus collagenase), MMP19 (RASI-1,
    stromelysin-4), MMP20 (Enamelysin), MMP21 (X-MMP), MMP23A (CA-MMP),
    MMP23B MMP24 (MT5-MMP), MMP25 (MT6-MMP), MMP26 (Matrilysin-2,
    endometase), MMP27 (MMP-22, C-MMP), MMP28 (Epilysin); A Disintegrin and
    Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs protease, such as ADAMTS1,
    ADAMTS2, ADAMTS3, ADAMTS4, ADAMTS5 (ADAMTS11), ADAMTS6,
    ADAMTS7, ADAMTS8 (METH-2), ADAMTS9, ADAMTS1O, ADAMTS12,
    ADAMTS13, ADAMTS14, ADAMTS15, ADAMTS16, ADAMTS17, ADAMTS18,
    ADAMTS19, ADAMTS20; chymotrypsin; trypsin; elastase; compliment factors; clotting
    factors; thrombin; plasmin; subtilisin; Neprilysin; Procollagen peptidase; Thermolysin;
    Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A; Bone morphogenetic protein 1; Lysostaphin;
    Insulin degrading enzyme; ZMPSTE2; acetylcholinesterase; or a combination thereof.
                                              167

WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
87.  The method of claim 86, wherein the protease comprises ADAMTS4, ADAMTS 5,
     MMP 13, or a combination thereof.
88.  The method of claim 81, wherein the modified A2M polypeptide is characterized by at
     least a 10% enhanced inhibition of FAC formation compared to a wild-type A2M
     inhibition of FAC formation.
89.  The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions are derived from
     one or more proteins other than A2M.
90.  The method of claim 89, wherein the one or more proteins other than A2M are from a non
     human organism.
91.  The method of claim 90, wherein the non-human organism comprises an animal, plant,
     bacterium, yeast, fish, reptile, amphibian, or fungi.
92.  The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise SEQ
     ID NOs 5-66.
93.  The method of claim 81, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO 4, or
     a fragment thereof.
94.  The method of claim 93, wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise SEQ
     ID NOs 5-66, or fragments thereof.
95.  The method of claim 81, wherein the wild-type A2M polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO 3,
     or a fragment thereof.
96.  The method of claim 81, wherein one or more of the one or more non-natural bait regions
     comprise a suicide inhibitor; wherein the suicide inhibitor is operable to covalently attach a
     protease to the variant A2M polypeptide.
97.  The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more protease recognition sites comprise 2 or
     more copies of the one or more protease recognition sequences.
98.  The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more non-natural bait regions comprise 2 or
     more copies of the one or more non-natural bait regions.
99.  The method of claim 81, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide comprises a wild-type A2M
     bait region sequence.
100. The method of claim 81, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide is a recombinant
     polypeptide.
101. The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more protease recognition sites comprise a
     consensus sequence for a protease.
102. The method of claim 81, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide comprises one or more
     modified glycosylation sites.
                                                168

WO 2015/031654                                                             PCT/US2014/053223
103. The method of claim 102, wherein the one or more modified glycosylation sites are
     functionalized with PEG.
104. The method of claim 102, wherein the variant A2M polypeptide has at least a 10% longer
     half -life than the half-life of a wild type A2M polypeptide when disposed within the
     subject.
105. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises an antibody, polypeptide, nucleotide,
     or small molecule.
106. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent binds to the FAC but not to the individual
     components of the complex separately.
107. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises a recombinant aggrecan G3 domain,
     wherein the domain contains the aggrecan G3 Lectin domain and competitively binds to
     fibronectin; and wherein the newly formed complex lacks the binding site to PAMP
     receptor and the binding site DAMP receptor.
108. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises a recombinant fibronectin fragment,
     wherein the fragment comprises a G3 binding domain and competitively binds to aggrecan,
     and wherein the newly formed fibronectin fragment aggrecan G3 complex lacks the
     binding site to PAMP receptor, and the DAMP receptor.
109. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises an aggrecan antibody.
110. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises a fibronectin antibody.
111. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises an antibody that binds to the PAMP
     receptor recognition domain of aggrecan, the DAMP receptor recognition domain of
     aggrecan, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells.
112. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises an antibody that binds to the PAMP
     receptor recognition domain of fibronectin, the DAMP receptor recognition domain of
     fibronectin, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells.
113. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises a PAMP receptor or DAMP receptor
     that binds to the PAMP domain of aggrecan G3, the DAMP domain of aggrecan G3, or
     both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells.
114. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent comprises a soluble form of the PAMP receptor
     or DAMP receptor that binds to the PAMP domain of fibronectin, the DAMP domain of
     fibronectin, or both, thereby inhibiting activation of monocytes and other cells.
115. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent inhibits production of proinflammatory
     cytokines, chemokines, proteases, or any combination thereof.
                                                  169

WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
116. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent inhibits fibroblast cells, thereby inhibiting
     production of fibronectin, recruitment of other fibroblast cells, or a combination thereof.
117. The method of claim 3, wherein the agent is identified using one or more high-throughput
     screening methods.
118. The method of claim 105, wherein the small molecule or polypeptide inhibits FAC
     formation, inhibits activation of monocytes, inhibits increased production of fibronectin,
     inhibits recruitment of fibroblast cells, binds to the DAMP domain of fibronectin, binds to
     the DAMP domain of aggrecan G3, binds to the PAMP domain of fibronectin, or binds to
     the PAMP domain of aggrecan G3.
119. The method of claim 105, wherein the small molecule or polypeptide inhibits FAC
     formation by competitively binding to fibronectin or aggrecan.
120. The method of claim 119, wherein the small molecule or polypeptide binds to the FAC
     complex resulting in dissociation or degradation of the FAC complex.
121. The method of claim 3, wherein inhibiting the formation of the FAC comprises inhibiting
     of one or more steps in FAC formation.
122. The method of claim 121, wherein the one or more steps in FAC formation comprise
     production of fibronectin in the ECM, production of proteases and metalloproteases,
     production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, degradation of aggrecan in
     cartilage, and production of aggrecan G3 domain fragment.
123. A system for enrichment of A2M from a fluid sample comprising:
     (a) a centrifuge;
     (b) a flow filtration module comprising one or more filters; and
     (c) an A2M enriched retentate from the fluid sample.
124. The system of claim 123, further comprising a pump adapted to
         (i) be fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module, and
         (ii) produce a flow of the fluid sample that passes through an inlet and an outlet of the
              flow filtration module.
125. The system of claim 124, wherein the pump is fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module
     upstream of the inlet.
126. The system of claim 124, wherein the pump is fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module
     downstream of the outlet.
127. The system of claim 123, wherein the centrifuge comprises a supernatant of the fluid
     sample.
                                                 170

WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
128. The system of claim 123, wherein the flow filtration module comprises a supernatant of the
     fluid sample.
129. The system of claim 128, wherein a pellet of the centrifuged fluid sample is not in the flow
     filtration module.
130. The system of claim 128, wherein the supernatant of the fluid sample is from the
     centrifuge.
131. The system of claim 130, wherein red blood cells have been substantially removed from
     the supernatant.
132. The system of claim 130, wherein white blood cells have been substantially removed from
     the supernatant.
133. The system of claim 123, wherein a filter of the one or more filters has a pore size of at
     least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm.
134. The system of claim 123, wherein a filter of the one or more filters has a pore size of at
     most about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
135. The system of claim 123, wherein a filter of the one or more filters comprise a cross flow
     filter.
136. The system of claim 123, wherein the flow filtration module further comprises a permeate
     collection reservoir.
137. The system of claim 136, wherein the permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate from
     the one or more filters.
138. The system of claim123, wherein a retentate of the one or more filters comprises the A2M
     enriched retentate.
139. The system of claim 136, wherein the A2M enriched retentate remains in the permeate
     collection reservoir.
140. The system of claim123, wherein a retentate of the one or more filters comprises cells and
     particles from the fluid sample comprising a diameter of at least about 0.1 pLm, 0.2pm,
     0.6pm, or Ipm.
141. The system of claim 123, wherein a retentate of the one or more filters comprises a
     concentration of proteins with a molecular weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300,
     400, or 500 kDa, of at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the sample.
142. The system of claim 123, wherein a permeate from the one or more filters has a
     concentration of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300,
     400, or 500 kDa of less than about 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of
     those proteins in the sample.
                                                171

WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
143. The system of claim 123, wherein the one or more filters comprises two or more filters.
144. A system for concentrating A2M from a fluid sample comprising:
     (a) a flow filtration module comprising
          (i) an inlet,
          (ii) an outlet, and
          (iii)two or more filters fluidly connected in series between the inlet and outlet; and
     (b) an A2M enriched retentate from the fluid sample.
145. The system of claim 144, further comprising: a pump adapted to
     (a) be fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module, and
     (b) produce a flow of the fluid sample that passes through the filter unit from the inlet to
          the outlet.
146. The system of claim 145, wherein the pump is fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module
     upstream of the inlet.
147. The system of claim 145, wherein the pump is fluidly coupled to the flow filtration module
     downstream of the outlet.
148. The system of claim 144, further comprising a centrifuge.
149. The system of claim 143 or 144, wherein the two or more filters are fluidly connected in
     series between an inlet and an outlet of the flow filtration module.
150. The system of claim 143 or 144, wherein a first of the two or more filters has a pore size of
     at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6ptm, or 1pm, and a second of the two or more filters has a
     pore size of at most about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
151. The system of claim 143 or 144, wherein the fluid sample passes through the two or more
     filters to produce the A2M enriched retentate.
152. The system of claim 143 or 144, wherein the two or more filters comprise a first and a
     second filter, wherein the second filter is downstream of the first filter.
153. The system of claim 152, wherein the first and the second of the two or more filters
     comprise a first and a second cross flow filter.
154. The system of claim 152, wherein a retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M
     enriched retentate.
155. The system of claim 152, wherein a retentate of the first filter comprises cells and particles
     from the fluid sample comprising a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6ptm, or
     1pm.
156. The system of claim 152, wherein a retentate of the second filter comprises proteins with a
     molecular weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa, wherein the
                                                  172

WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
     concentration of those proteins is at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the fluid
     sample.
157. The system of claim 152, wherein the permeate from the second filter has a concentration
     of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500
     kDa of less than about 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins
     in the sample.
158. The system of claim 152, wherein a first permeate from the first filter flows through the
     second filter.
159. The system of claim 152, wherein the flow filtration module further comprises a first and a
     second permeate collection reservoir.
160. The system of claim 159, wherein the first permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate
     from the first filter and a retentate of the second filter.
161. The system of claim 159, wherein the second permeate collection reservoir stores a
     permeate from the second filter.
162. The system of claim 159, wherein the A2M enriched retentate remains in the first permeate
     collection reservoir.
163. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the flow filtration module is a dead end and/or
     tangential flow filtration module.
164. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the fluid sample comprises a biological sample.
165. The system of claim 164, wherein the biological sample is from an animal.
166. The system of claim 164, wherein the biological sample is from a mammal.
167. The system of claim 164, wherein the biological sample is from a human.
168. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the system further comprises one or more waste
     modules in fluid connection with the flow filtration module.
169. The system of claim 168, wherein the one or more waste modules are downstream of the
     flow filtration module.
170. The system of claim 168, wherein the one or more waste modules comprise particles, and
     other molecules with a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm from the
     fluid sample.
171. The system of claim 168, wherein the one or more waste modules comprise proteins with a
     molecular weight of less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa from the fluid
     sample.
172. The system of claim 123, wherein the fluid sample is flowing through the one or more
     filters in sequence using the centrifuge, a pump, or a combination thereof.
                                                  173

WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
173. The system of claim 143 or 144, wherein the fluid sample is flowing through the two or
     more filters in sequence using the centrifuge, a pump, or a combination thereof.
174. The system of claim 123 or 144, further comprising a collection module in fluid
     connection with the flow filtration module.
175. The system of claim 174, wherein the collection module is downstream of the centrifuge.
176. The system of claim 174, wherein the collection module comprises the A2M enriched
     retentate.
177. The system of claim 123 or 144, further comprising a sample loading module operable to
     introduce the fluid sample into the system.
178. The system of claim 177, wherein the sample loading module is directly or indirectly
     attached to the blood stream of a subject.
179. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises A2M at a
     concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the fluid sample.
180. The system of claim 179, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises a first plurality of
     non-A2M proteins and molecules.
181. The system of claim 180, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises a second plurality
     of non-A2M proteins and molecules.
182. The system of claim 180 or 181, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
     molecules
     (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 10, 50, 100, 300, or
         500 kDa, and
     (b) are present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the fluid sample.
183. The system of claim 180 or 181, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
     molecules
     (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight less than about 500 kDa, and
     (b) are present at a concentration of less than about 90%, 70%, 50%, 30%, or 10% of a
         concentration of those proteins in the fluid sample.
184. The system of claim 183, wherein the second plurality of non-A2M proteins and molecules
     (a) are characterized as having a molecular weight more than about 10 kDa, and
     (b) are present at a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the fluid sample.
185. The system of claim 183 or 184, wherein the first plurality of non-A2M proteins and
     molecules comprise cytokines; chemokines; immunomodulatory mediators, peptides,
     proteins, DNA, RNA, carbohydrates, small molecules; proteases; degradative proteins; or
     any combination thereof.
                                                 174

WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
186. The system of claim 185, wherein the cytokines comprise interleukins, tumor necrosis
     factors (TNFs), monocyte chemoattractant proteins (MCPs), macrophage inflammatory
     proteins (MIPs), tumor growth factors (TGFs), matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), or any
     combination thereof
187. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein red blood cells have been substantially removed
     from the fluid sample.
188. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein white blood cells have been substantially
     removed from the fluid sample.
189. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein platelets have been substantially removed from
     the fluid sample.
190. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein red blood cells have been substantially removed
     from the A2M enriched retentate.
191. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein white blood cells have been substantially
     removed from the A2M enriched retentate.
192. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein platelets have been substantially removed from
     the A2M enriched retentate.
193. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises platelets.
194. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the A2M enriched retentate is obtained in less
     than about 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, or 3 hours.
195. A method for enrichment of A2M from a biological sample obtained from an animal
     comprising:
     (a) flowing the biological sample through one or more filters of a flow filtration module,
         thereby separating the sample into a permeate and a retentate; and
     (b) collecting the retentate;
     wherein the collected retentate is an A2M enriched retentate, wherein the concentration of
     A2M in the A2M enriched retentate is at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20
     times higher than the concentration of A2M in the sample., and
     wherein the concentration in the A2M enriched retentate of proteins having a molecular
     weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is less than 90%, 80%, 60%,
     30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins in the sample.
196. The method of claim 195, further comprising removing cells and particles with a diameter
     of at least about 0.1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm from the sample before (a).
197. The method of claim 196, wherein the removing comprises
         (i) centrifuging the biological sample, and
                                               175

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
          (ii) obtaining a supernatant of the fluid sample.
198. The method of claim 195, wherein the removing comprises flowing the biological sample
     through a filter.
199. The method of claim 195, wherein the flowing comprises flowing the biological sample
     through a first filter of the one or more filters, thereby separating the biological sample into
     a first permeate and a first retentate, and flowing the first permeate through a second filter
     of the one or more filters, thereby separating the biological sample into a second permeate
     and a second retentate; wherein the second retentate is the A2M enriched retentate.
200. A method of enriching A2M from a biological sample from an animal comprising:
     (a) removing cells and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 Pm, 0.2p[m, 0.6pm, or
          1pm from a biological sample to produce a fluid sample, and
     (b) flowing the fluid sample through one or more filters of a flow filtration module,
     thereby producing a an A2M enriched retentate.
201. The method of claim 200, wherein the removing comprises
          (i) centrifuging the biological sample, and
          (ii) obtaining a supernatant of the fluid sample.
202. The method of claim 200, wherein the removing comprises flowing the biological sample
     through a filter.
203. The method of claim 201, further comprising discarding or retaining a pellet of the fluid
     sample.
204. The method of claim 200, wherein the flowing comprises flowing the fluid sample through
     a first filter of the one or more filters, thereby separating the fluid sample into a first
     permeate and a first retentate, and flowing the first permeate through a second filter of the
     one or more filters, thereby separating the fluid sample into a second permeate and a
     second retentate; wherein the second retentate is the A2M enriched retentate.
205. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a first filter of the one or more filters has a pore
     size of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2ptm, 0.6pm, or Ipm.
206. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a first filter of the one or more filters has a pore
     size of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
207. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a retentate from the one or more filters has a
     concentration of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300,
     400, or 500 kDa of less than about 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the
     concentration of those proteins in the biological sample.
                                                    176

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
208. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a permeate from the one or more filters has a
     concentration of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300,
     400, or 500 kDa of more than about 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the
     concentration of those proteins in the biological sample.
209. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein the one or more filters comprise two or more
     filters.
210. A method for enriching A2M from a biological sample obtained from an animal
     comprising:
     (a) flowing the biological sample through two or more filters of a flow filtration module,
          thereby separating the biological sample into two or more permeates and two or more
          retentates; and
     (b) collecting at least one of the two or more retentates;
     wherein the collected retentate is an A2M enriched retentate.
211. The method of claim 210, wherein (a) comprises flowing the biological sample through a
     first filter of the two or more filters, thereby separating the sample into a first permeate and
     a first retentate, and flowing the first permeate through a second filter of the two or more
     filters, thereby separating the sample into a second permeate and a second retentate;
     wherein the second retentate is the collected retentate.
212. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein a first filter of the two or more filters has a pore
     size of at least about 0.1pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm.
213. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein a first filter of the two or more filters has a pore
     size of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
214. The method of claim 212, wherein a second filter of the two or more filters has a pore size
     of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
215. The method of any of claims 212-214, wherein the first filter comprises a first cross-flow
     filter.
216. The method of claim 215, wherein the second filter comprises a second cross-flow filter.
217. The method of claim 214, further comprising:
     (c) filtering a permeate of the first filter with the second filter.
218. The method of claim 217, further comprising
     (d) collecting a retentate of the second filter.
219. The method of claim 218, wherein the retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M
     enriched retentate.
220. The method of claim 219, further comprising:
                                                   177

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
     (e) storing the A2M enriched retentate in a second filter retentate reservoir in fluid
          connection with the second filter.
221. The method of any of claims 212-214, further comprising storing a retentate of the first
     filter in a reservoir in fluid connection with the first filter.
222. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein the two or more filters are fluidly connected in
     series between an inlet and an outlet of the flow filtration module.
223. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein the fluid sample passes through the two or more
     filters to produce the A2M enriched retentate.
224. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein the two or more filters comprise a first and a
     second filter, wherein the second filter is downstream of the first filter.
225. The method of claim 224, wherein the first and the second of the two or more filters
     comprise a first and a second cross flow filter.
226. The method of claim 224, wherein a retentate of the second filter comprises the A2M
     enriched retentate.
227. The method of claim 224, wherein a retentate of the first filter comprises cells and particles
     from the fluid sample comprising a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6ptm, or
     1pm.
228. The method of claim 224, wherein in a retentate of the second filter the concentration of
     proteins with a molecular weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is
     at least about 1.1 times their concentration in the biological sample.
229. The method of claim 224, wherein a permeate from the second filter has a concentration of
     proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa
     of more than about 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those
     proteins in the s biological ample.
230. The method of claim 224, wherein a first permeate from the first filter flows through the
     second filter.
231. The method of claim 224, wherein the flow filtration module further comprises a first and a
     second permeate collection reservoir.
232. The method of claim 231, wherein the first permeate collection reservoir stores a permeate
     from the first filter and a retentate of the second filter.
233. The method of claim 231, wherein the second permeate collection reservoir stores a
     permeate from the second filter.
234. The method of claim 231, wherein the A2M enriched retentate remains in the first
     permeate collection reservoir.
                                                  178

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
235. The method of any one of claims 195 or 200, wherein the flow filtration module comprises
     and inlet and an outlet, and wherein the one or more filters are fluidly connected in series
     between the inlet and the outlet
236. The method of any one of claims 209 or 210, wherein the flow filtration module comprises
     and inlet and an outlet, and wherein the two or more filters are fluidly connected in series
     between the inlet and the outlet.
237. The method of claim 235 or 236, wherein the flowing comprises pumping with a pump,
     wherein the pump is fluidly connected to the flow filtration module upstream of the inlet or
     downstream of the outlet.
238. The method of claim 237, wherein the pumping comprises manually actuating the pump.
239. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the biological sample
     comprises plasma.
240. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, further comprising removing red blood
     cells from the biological sample.
241. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, further comprising removing white
     blood cells from the biological sample.
242. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, further comprising removing platelets
     from the biological sample.
243. The method of any one of claims 239-242, wherein the red blood cells, white blood cells,
     platelets, or any combination thereof, are removed by flowing or passing the sample
     through the filters.
244. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, further comprising adding one or more
     blood derived components to the biological sample or the A2M enriched retentate.
245. The method of claim 244, wherein the one or more blood derived components comprise
     platelets.
246. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a filter of the one or more filters is a hollow fiber
     tangential flow filter.
247. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein a filter of the two or more filters is a hollow fiber
     tangential flow filter.
248. The method of claim 195 or 200, wherein a filter of the one or more filters comprises a
     charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the selectivity
     of the filter.
                                                179

 WO 2015/031654                                                               PCT/US2014/053223
249. The method of claim 209 or 210, wherein a filter of the two or more filters comprises a
     charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the selectivity
     of the filter.
250. The method of claim 248 or 249, wherein the immobilized molecules comprise antibodies,
     proteins, receptors, ligands, carbohydrates, nucleotides, RNA, DNA, or any combination
     thereof.
251. The method of claim 248 or 249, wherein enhancing the selectivity comprises enhancing
     the ability to retain A2M, enhancing the ability to not retain molecules that are not A2M, or
     a combination thereof.
252. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the flowing comprises applying
     tangential force filtration, one or more centrifugation steps, gravitational forces,
     mechanical forces, or any combination thereof.
253. The method of claim 252, wherein the mechanical force comprises a pump, centrifugal
     force, or gas pressure, or any combination thereof.
254. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, further comprising adding one or more
     non-blood derived components, one or more blood derived components, or a combination
     thereof, to the biological sample or the A2M enriched retentate.
255. The method of claim 254, wherein the one or more additional non-blood derived
     components comprises an anti-coagulant, preservative, excipient, diluent, or other additive.
256. The method of claim 255, wherein the anti-coagulant comprises EDTA, tri-sodium citrate,
     water for injection (WFI), saline, or ACD-A.
257. The method of claim 255, wherein the diluent is a WFI solution or a saline solution.
258. The method of claim 254, wherein the one or more additional blood derived components
     comprise platelets.
259. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the biological sample is a
     mammalian sample.
260. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the biological sample is a
     human sample.
261. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the biological sample is
     collected with the aid of an additional absorbent, adsorbent, or capillary materials or
     devices selected from the group of needle-syringe combo, sponges, wicks, pledgets,
     sutures, hydrophilic catheters, hydrophobic catheters, hollow-lumen catheters, or any
     combination thereof.
                                                180

 WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
262. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the A2M enriched retentate is
     obtained in less than about 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, or 3 hours.
263. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the concentration of A2M in
     the A2M enriched retentate is at least 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 times
     higher than the concentration of A2M in the sample.
264. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the concentration in the A2M
     enriched retentate of proteins having a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 200,
     300, 400, or 500 kDa is less than 90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of
     those proteins in the sample.
265. The method of any one of claims 195, 200, or 210, wherein the flow filtration module is a
     dead end and/or tangential flow filtration module.
266. A system for manual flow of a biological sample comprising:
     (a) a first retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a first end with a first inlet
         and second end with a second inlet;
     (b) a first permeate chamber comprising a first outlet and optionally a second outlet;
     (c) a first semi-permeable membrane oriented between the first retentate chamber and the
         first permeate chamber having an average pore size of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200,
         300, 400, or 500 kDa that permits liquid flow from the first retentate chamber to the
         first permeate chamber; and
     (d) a first injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the first end, and a
         second injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the second end.
267.   The system of claim 266, further comprising:
     (e) a second retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a third end with a third
         inlet and fourth end with a fourth inlet;
     (f) a second permeate chamber comprising a second outlet, wherein the second outlet is
         optionally in fluid connection with the first retentate chamber;
     (g) a second semi-permeable membrane oriented between the second retentate chamber
         and the second permeate chamber having an average pore size of at least about 0.1 Pm,
         0.2ptm, 0.6pm, or Ipm that permits liquid flow from the second retentate chamber to
         the second permeate chamber; and
     (h) a third injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the third end, and
         a fourth injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the fourth end.
268. The system of claim 266, wherein the first injector is connected to the first inlet via an
     adapter.
                                                181

 WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
269. The system of claim 268, further comprising a first vessel connected to the first inlet via
     the adapter.
270. The system of claim 269, wherein the first vessel comprises sterile air.
271. The system of claim 269, wherein the first vessel comprises a syringe.
272. The system of claim 271, wherein the first vessel is disposed below the first membrane.
273. The system of claim 271, wherein the first vessel is disposed above the first membrane.
274. The system of claim 271, wherein the first vessel is oriented perpendicular to a surface of
     the first membrane.
275. The system of claim 268, wherein the second injector is connected to the second inlet via
     an adapter.
276. The system of claim 266, wherein the first outlet is connected to a first vessel.
277. The system of claim 276, wherein the first vessel comprises a syringe.
278. The system of claim 276, wherein the first vessel comprises a permeate of the biological
     sample.
279. The system of any one of claims 268, 269, or 275, wherein the adapter is a valve.
280. The system of claim 279, wherein the valve is a stopcock.
281. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first inlet, second inlet, third inlet, fourth
     inlet, first outlet, second outlet, or any combination thereof, comprises an adapter.
282. The system of claim 281, wherein the adapter is a Luer-lock adapter, a Hose-Barb adapter,
     or a sanitary tri-clover adaptor.
283. The system of claim 282, wherein the Luer-lock adapter is closed, capped, or sealed.
284. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first inlet, second inlet, third inlet, fourth
     inlet, first outlet, second outlet, or any combination thereof, is closed, capped, or sealed.
285. The system of claim 267, wherein the third injector is connected to the third inlet via an
     adapter.
286. The system of claim 285, further comprising a second vessel connected to the third inlet via
     the adapter.
287. The system of claim 286, wherein the second vessel comprises sterile air.
288. The system of claim 286, wherein the second vessel comprises a syringe.
289. The system of claim 288, wherein the second vessel is disposed below the second
     membrane
290. The system of claim 288, wherein the second vessel is disposed above the second
     membrane
                                                  182

 WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
291. The system of claim 288, wherein the second vessel is oriented perpendicular to a surface
     of the second membrane.
292. The system of claim 285, wherein the fourth injector is connected to the fourth inlet via an
     adapter.
293. The system of claim 267, wherein the second outlet is in fluid connection with the first
     retentate chamber.
294. The system of claim 267 or 293, wherein the second outlet is in fluid communication with
     a second vessel.
295. The system of claim 294, wherein the connection is via a second outlet flow path.
296. The system of claim 294, wherein the second vessel comprises a container or bag.
297. The system of claim 294, wherein the second vessel comprises a permeate of the biological
     sample.
298. The system of claim 297, wherein the permeate of the biological sample does not comprise
     cells.
299. The system of any one of claims 285, 286, or 292, wherein the adapter is a valve.
300. The system of claim 299, wherein the valve is a stopcock.
301. The system of claim 295, wherein the second outlet flow path is in fluid communication
     with the first retentate chamber via a connecting flow path.
302. The system of claim 301, wherein the second outlet flow path is connected to the
     connecting flow path via a valve.
303. The system of claim 302, wherein the valve allows fluid to flow from the second outlet
     flow path to the second vessel in a first orientation, and wherein the valve allows fluid to
     flow from the second vessel to the first retentate chamber in a second orientation.
304. The system of claim 267, wherein the second outlet is in fluid connection with a collection
     vessel.
305. The system of claim 304, wherein the collection vessel is adapted to fit the first or second
     inlet.
306. The system of claim 304, wherein the collection vessel is adapted to fit an adapter
     connected to the first or second inlet.
307. The system of claim 304, wherein the collection vessel is the first or second injector.
308. The system of claim 266 or 267, further comprising an A2M enriched retentate contained
     in the first injector or the second injector, the A2M enriched retentate comprising:
                                                  183

WO 2015/031654                                                                 PCT/US2014/053223
     (e) A2M isolated from a biological sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at
         a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the
         biological sample from the animal; and
     (f) plasma, bone marrow aspirate (BMA), or another body fluid from the biological
         sample.
309. The system of claim 308, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises proteins with a
     molecular weight of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa present at a
     concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than found in the biological sample from the
     animal.
310. The system of claim 308, wherein the A2M enriched retentate comprises a concentration of
     molecules with a molecular weight less than 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa is less
     than 90%, 70%, 50%, 30%, or 10% of the concentration of those proteins and/or fold
     concentration of A2M present in the biological sample from the animal.
311. The system of claim 308, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, BMA, or other
     body fluid.
312. The system of claim 308, wherein the A2M enriched retentate is substantially free of cells
     and particles with a diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm, and
     comprises a reduced concentration of proteins and other molecules with a molecular weight
     of at least about 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa compared to the biological sample.
313. The system of claim 308, wherein the A2M enriched retentate is for autologous delivery
     into or onto one or more wounds of the animal.
314. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the A2M enriched retentate is an autologous
     composition.
315. The system of claim 266, wherein the first inlet is disposed to introduce a biological sample
     into the first retentate chamber and parallel to the surface of the first membrane.
316. The system of claim 266 or 315, wherein the second inlet is disposed to introduce a
     biological sample into the first retentate chamber and parallel to the surface of the first
     membrane.
317. The system of claim 267 or 315, wherein the third and/or fourth inlet is disposed to
     introduce a biological sample into the second retentate chamber and parallel to the surface
     of the second membrane.
318. The system of claim 266 or 267, further comprising: a means for providing the biological
     sample or permeate of the biological sample to the first or second inlet of the first retentate
                                                 184

WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
     chamber, and a means for controlling a filtration rate of the biological sample through the
     first membrane and into the first permeate chamber
319. The system of claim 267, further comprising: a means for providing a the biological sample
     to the third or fourth inlet of the second retentate chamber, and a means for controlling a
     filtration rate of the biological sample through the second membrane and into the second
     permeate chamber.
320. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first retentate chamber is cylindrical, and
     wherein the first outlet is disposed perpendicular to a surface of the first and/or second
     membrane.
321. The system of claim 267, wherein the second retentate chamber is cylindrical, and wherein
     the second outlet is disposed perpendicular to a surface of the second and/or first
     membrane
322. The system of claim 267, wherein the second retentate chamber is disposed above the first
     retentate chamber
323. The system of claim 267 or 322, wherein the second retentate chamber is parallel to the
     first retentate chamber.
324. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first inlet and/or the second inlet is disposed
     above the first membrane
325. The system of claim 267, wherein the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is disposed above
     the second and/or first membrane.
326. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first inlet and/or the second inlet is oriented
     perpendicular to a surface of the first membrane.
327. The system of claim 267, wherein the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is oriented
     perpendicular to a surface of the second and/or first membrane
328. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the first inlet and/or the second inlet is oriented
     parallel to a surface of the first membrane.
329. The system of claim 267, wherein the third inlet and/or the fourth inlet is oriented parallel
     to a surface of the second and/or first membrane.
330. The system of claim 266 or 267, wherein the system is portable.
331. A method for enrichment of A2M from a biological sample obtained from an animal
     comprising:
     (a) flowing a biological sample into a system comprising:
          (i) a first retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a first end with a first
              inlet and second end with a second inlet;
                                                  185

WO 2015/031654                                                                  PCT/US2014/053223
         (ii) a first permeate chamber comprising a first outlet;
         (iii)a first semi-permeable membrane oriented between the first retentate chamber and
              the first permeate chamber that permits liquid flow from the first retentate chamber
              to the first permeate chamber; and
         (iv)a first injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the first end,
              and a second injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the
              second end;
         through the first inlet, over the first membrane of the first retentate chamber, and
         through the second inlet, thereby separating the sample into a permeate and a retentate;
         and
     (b) collecting the retentate in the first or second injector, wherein the retentate is enriched
         for A2M.
332.   The method of claim 331, wherein the system further comprises:
         (v)    a second retentate chamber comprising a flow path comprising a third end with a
                third inlet and fourth end with a fourth inlet;
         (vi) a second permeate chamber comprising a second outlet, wherein the second outlet
                is optionally in fluid connection with the first retentate chamber;
         (vii) a second semi-permeable membrane oriented between the second retentate
                chamber and the second permeate chamber that permits liquid flow from the
                second retentate chamber to the second permeate chamber; and
         (viii) a third injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with the third
                end, and a fourth injector comprising a manual actuator in fluid connection with
                the fourth end;
         (ix) and wherein the method further comprises:
     (c) flowing the sample through the third inlet, over the second membrane of the second
         retentate chamber, and through the fourth inlet, thereby retaining cells and other
         particles with an average diameter of at least about 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm in
         the second retentate chamber; and
     (d) flowing the permeate from the second membrane into the first retentate chamber,
         wherein (d) and (e) are performed before (a), (b), and (c).
333. The method of claim 331, wherein the concentration of A2M in the retentate is at least 1.1,
     1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, or 20 times higher than the concentration of A2M in the
     sample.
                                                   186

WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
334. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the retentate comprises a concentration of
     proteins with a molecular weight less than about 10, 50, 100, 300, or 500 kDa of less than
     90%, 80%, 60%, 30%, or 10% the concentration of those proteins in the biological sample.
335. The method of claim 332, wherein (e) comprises flowing the permeate from the second
     membrane through a channel connecting the second outlet with the first retentate chamber.
336. The method of claim 332, wherein (e) comprises collecting the permeate from the second
     membrane in a collection vessel and flowing the collected permeate from the second
     membrane through the first or second inlet into the first retentate chamber
337. The method of claim 336, wherein the collection vessel is adapted to fit the first or second
     inlet.
338. The method of claim 336, wherein the collection vessel is adapted to fit an adapter
     connected to the first or second inlet.
339. The method of claim 336, wherein the collection vessel is the first or second injector.
340. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the flowing comprises actuating the first injector.
341. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the flowing further comprises actuating the
     second injector.
342. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the first and second injectors are actuated on or
     more times.
343. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the first and second injectors are actuated in
     sequence.
344. The method of any one of claims 331 or 332, wherein the biological sample comprises
     plasma.
345. The method of any one of claims 331 or 332, wherein red blood cells and white blood cells
     have been removed from the biological sample.
346. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the biological sample or A2M enriched retentate
     further comprises one or more blood derived components.
347. The method of claim 338, wherein the one or more blood derived components comprise
     platelets.
348. The method of claim 332, wherein the second membrane is characterized by having a pore
     size of at least 0.1 pm, 0.2pm, 0.6pm, or 1pm, or higher.
349. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the first membrane comprises a hollow fiber
     tangential flow filter.
350. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the first membrane has a molecular weight cut
     off of at most 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500 kDa.
                                                187

WO 2015/031654                                                                PCT/US2014/053223
351. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the first and/or second membranes comprise a
     charge, immobilized molecules, or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the selectivity
     of the one or more filters.
352. The method of claim 351, wherein the immobilized molecules comprise antibodies,
     proteins, receptors, ligands, carbohydrates, nucleotides, RNA, or DNA.
353. The method of claim 351, wherein enhancing the selectivity of the one or more filters
     comprises enhancing the ability of the one or more filters to retain A2M, enhancing the
     ability of the one or more filters to not retain molecules that are not A2M, or a combination
     thereof.
354. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the flowing comprises actuating on or more of
     the injectors, applying tangential force filtration, one or more centrifugation steps,
     gravitational forces, mechanical forces, or any combination thereof.
355. The method of claim 335, wherein the mechanical force comprises a manual force, a pump,
     centrifugal force, gas pressure, or a combination thereof.
356. The method of claim 331 or 332, further comprising adding one or more non-blood derived
     components, one or more blood derived components, or a combination thereof, to the
     biological sample or A2M enriched retentate.
357. The method of claim 337, wherein the one or more additional non-blood derived
     components comprises an anti-coagulant, preservative, excipient, diluent, or other additive.
358. The method of claim 338, wherein the anti-coagulant comprises EDTA, tri-sodium citrate,
     water for injection (WFI), saline, or ACD-A.
359. The method of claim 338, wherein the diluent is a WFI solution or a saline solution.
360. The method of claim 337, wherein the one or more additional blood derived components
     comprise platelets.
361. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the biological sample is from a human subject.
362. The method of claim 361, wherein the human subject has a disease or condition treatable
     with the retentate.
363. The method of claim 362, wherein the disease or condition is a wound.
364. The method of claim 363, wherein the wound is a chronic wound.
365. The method of claim 331 or 332, wherein the biological sample is collected with the aid of
     an additional absorbent, adsorbent, or capillary materials or systems selected from the
     group of needle-syringe combo, sponges, wicks, pledgets, sutures, hydrophilic catheters,
     hydrophobic catheters, hollow-lumen catheters, or any combination thereof.
                                                  188

WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
366. The method of claim 331, further comprising centrifuging the sample to remove cells and
     particles before (a), (b), or (c).
367. A method of manufacture of a medicament comprising bringing together an amount of a
     composition comprising
     (a) A2M isolated from a biological sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at
         a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the
         biological sample from the animal, and
     (b) plasma, BMA, or another body fluid from the biological sample;
     with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
     wherein the medicament is effective to promote wound healing.
368. An article of manufacture comprising package material containing a therapeutically
     effective amount of a composition comprising
     (a) A2M isolated from a biological sample from an animal, wherein the A2M is present at
         a concentration of at least 1.1 times higher than the concentration of A2M present in the
         biological sample from the animal, and
     (b) plasma, BMA, or another body fluid from the biological sample;
      together with instructions for use in the treatment of a wound in or on a subject.
369. A method of manufacture of a medicament comprising bringing together an amount of a
     composition comprising a variant A2M polypeptide or portion thereof effective to promote
     wound healing and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
370. An article of manufacture comprising package material containing therapeutically effective
     amounts of a composition comprising a variant A2M polypeptide or portion thereof
     together with instructions for use in the treatment of a wound in or on a subject
371. A method of manufacture of a medicament comprising bringing together an amount a
     composition comprising an agent that inhibits one or more proteins or cells associated with
     formation of the FAC effective to promote wound healing and a pharmaceutically
     acceptable carrier.
372. An article of manufacture comprising package material containing therapeutically effective
     amounts of a composition comprising an agent that inhibits one or more proteins or cells
     associated with formation of the FAC together with instructions for use in the treatment of
     a wound in or on a subject.
373. The method of any one of claims 1, 195, 200, 210, 331, or 367, wherein the biological
     sample comprises a first biological sample from a first subject and a second biological
     sample from a second subject.
                                                 189

WO 2015/031654                                                              PCT/US2014/053223
374. The method of claim 373, wherein the first and second biological samples are blood
     samples or plasma samples.
375. The method of claim 373, wherein the first and second biological samples do not
     substantially comprise blood cells.
376. The method of any one of claims 1, 195, 200, 210, 331, or 367, wherein the animal is a first
     animal and wherein the method further comprises combining the A2M enriched retentate
     with another A2M retentate obtained from another biological sample to form a pooled
     sample, wherein the another biological sample is from a second animal that is different
     from the first animal.
377. The method of claim 376, wherein the biological samples are blood samples or plasma
     samples.
378. The method of claim 376, wherein the A2M enriched retentates do not substantially
     comprise blood cells.
379. The method of claim 376, further comprising treating a subject in need thereof with the
     pooled sample.
380. The method of claim 379, wherein the pooled sample is not immunogenic to the subject
381. The system of claim 123 or 144, wherein the fluid sample is a biological sample, wherein
     the biological sample comprises a first biological sample from a first subject and a second
     biological sample from a second subject.
382. The system of claim 308, wherein the biological sample comprises a first biological sample
     from a first subject and a second biological sample from a second subject
383. The system of claim 381 or 382, wherein the first and second biological samples are blood
     samples or plasma samples.
384. The system of claim 381 or 382, wherein the first and second biological samples do not
     substantially comprise blood cells.
385. The article of claim 368, wherein the biological sample comprises a first biological sample
     from a first subject and a second biological sample from a second subject.
386. The method of claim 385, wherein the first and second biological samples are blood
     samples or plasma samples.
387. The method of claim 385, wherein the first and second biological samples do not
     substantially comprise blood cells.
388. The article of claim 368, wherein the animal is a first animal and wherein the article further
     comprises an A2M enriched retentate obtained from another biological sample to form a
                                               190

WO 2015/031654                                                            PCT/US2014/053223
     pooled sample, wherein the another biological sample is from a second animal that is
     different from the first animal.
389. The article of claim 388, wherein the biological samples are blood samples or plasma
     samples.
390. The method of claim 388, wherein the article does not substantially comprise blood cells.
                                               191

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                             559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
                                               SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> CYTONICS CORPORATION
                    HANNA, LEWIS
                    LAUGHLIN, JOHN DAVID
                    BROWNING, SHAWN ROBERT
              <120> SYSTEMS, COMPOSITIONS, AND METHODS FOR TRANSPLANTATION AND TREATING
              CONDITIONS
<removed-apn>
              <130> 37151 703.601
              <140> TBD
              <141> 2014 08 28
              <150> 61/871,009
              <151> 2013 08 28
              <150> 61/990,522
              <151> 2014 05 08
              <150> 61/990,524
              <151> 2014 05 08
              <160> 76
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   8993
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 1
              ctcatgacca aaatccctta acgtgagtta cgcgcgcgtc gttccactga gcgtcagacc       60
              ccgtagaaaa gatcaaagga tcttcttgag atcctttttt tctgcgcgta atctgctgct      120
              tgcaaacaaa aaaaccaccg ctaccagcgg tggtttgttt gccggatcaa gagctaccaa      180
              ctctttttcc gaaggtaact ggcttcagca gagcgcagat accaaatact gttcttctag     240
              tgtagccgta gttagcccac cacttcaaga actctgtagc accgcctaca tacctcgctc     300
              tgctaatcct gttaccagtg gctgctgcca gtggcgataa gtcgtgtctt accgggttgg      360
              actcaagacg atagttaccg gataaggcgc agcggtcggg ctgaacgggg ggttcgtgca      420
                                                     Page 1

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              cacagcccag cttggagcga acgacctaca ccgaactgag atacctacag cgtgagctat    480
              gagaaagcgc cacgcttccc gaagggagaa aggcggacag gtatccggta agcggcaggg    540
              tcggaacagg agagcgcacg agggagcttc cagggggaaa cgcctggtat ctttatagtc    600
              ctgtcgggtt tcgccacctc tgacttgagc gtcgattttt gtgatgctcg tcaggggggc    660
              ggagcctatg gaaaaacgcc agcaacgcgg cctttttacg gttcctggcc ttttgctggc    720
<removed-apn>
              cttttgctca catgttcttt cctgcgttat cccctgattc tgtggataac cgtattaccg    780
              cctttgagtg agctgatacc gctcgccgca gccgaacgac cgagcgcagc gagtcagtga    840
              gcgaggaagc ggaaggcgag agtagggaac tgccaggcat caaactaagc agaaggcccc    900
              tgacggatgg cctttttgcg tttctacaaa ctctttctgt gttgtaaaac gacggccagt    960
              cttaagctcg ggccccctgg gcggttctga taacgagtaa tcgttaatcc gcaaataacg   1020
              taaaaacccg cttcggcggg tttttttatg gggggagttt agggaaagag catttgtcag   1080
              aatatttaag ggcgcctgtc actttgcttg atatatgaga attatttaac cttataaatg   1140
              agaaaaaagc aacgcacttt aaataagata cgttgctttt tcgattgatg aacacctata   1200
              attaaactat tcatctatta tttatgattt tttgtatata caatatttct agtttgttaa   1260
              agagaattaa gaaaataaat ctcgaaaata ataaagggaa aatcagtttt tgatatcaaa   1320
              attatacatg tcaacgataa tacaaaatat aatacaaact ataagatgtt atcagtattt   1380
              attatcattt agaataaatt ttgtgtcgcc cttaattgtg agcggataac aattacgagc   1440
              ttcatgcaca gtggcgttga cattgattat tgactagtta ttaatagtaa tcaattacgg   1500
              ggtcattagt tcatagccca tatatggagt tccgcgttac ataacttacg gtaaatggcc   1560
              cgcctggctg accgcccaac gacccccgcc cattgacgtc aataatgacg tatgttccca   1620
              tagtaacgcc aatagggact ttccattgac gtcaatgggt ggagtattta cggtaaactg   1680
              cccacttggc agtacatcaa gtgtatcata tgccaagtac gccccctatt gacgtcaatg   1740
              acggtaaatg gcccgcctgg cattatgccc agtacatgac cttatgggac tttcctactt   1800
              ggcagtacat ctacgtatta gtcatcgcta ttaccatggt gatgcggttt tggcagtaca   1860
              tcaatgggcg tggatagcgg tttgactcac ggggatttcc aagtctccac cccattgacg   1920
              tcaatgggag tttgttttgg caccaaaatc aacgggactt tccaaaatgt cgtaacaact   1980
                                                  Page 2

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              ccgccccatt gacgcaaatg ggcggtaggc gtgtacggtg ggaggtctat ataagcagag   2040
              ctctctggct aactagagaa cccactgctt actggcttat cgaaattaat acgactcact   2100
              ataggggtac ctgccaccat ggggaaaaac aaactgctgc atccaagcct ggtcctgctg   2160
              ctgctggttc tgctgcctac tgacgcctct gtgagcggaa agccccagta tatggttctg   2220
              gtcccgtccc tgctgcacac cgagaccaca gaaaaagggt gcgtgctgct gtcttacctg   2280
<removed-apn>
              aatgaaacag tgactgttag tgcctcactg gagagtgtgc gcggaaatcg ttcactgttc   2340
              accgatctgg aggcggaaaa cgatgtgctg cattgcgtcg catttgctgt gccaaaaagc   2400
              tcctctaatg aagaagtgat gttcctgacc gtccaggtga agggccctac acaggaattc   2460
              aaaaaacgca ctaccgttat ggtcaaaaac gaggatagcc tggtgtttgt tcagacagac   2520
              aaatccatct ataagcctgg tcagactgtg aagttccggg tggttagcat ggatgaaaat   2580
              tttcaccccc tgaacgagct gattccactg gtgtacatcc aggaccctaa aggcaaccgc   2640
              atcgcccagt ggcagtcttt ccagctggaa ggcggtctga agcagtttag tttccctctg   2700
              agttcagagc cgtttcaggg ttcttataaa gtcgtggttc agaaaaagag tgggggacgt   2760
              actgaacatc cttttaccgt tgaagagttc gtcctgccga aatttgaggt ccaggtgacc   2820
              gttcccaaga ttatcacaat tctggaagag gaaatgaacg tgagcgtgtg cggactgtat   2880
              acctacggca aaccagtgcc tggtcacgtt acagtcagta tctgccgtaa gtactcagat   2940
              gcaagcgact gtcatggcga agattcacag gctttttgcg agaagttcag cggccagctg   3000
              aactcccacg gttgcttcta tcagcaggtg aaaaccaagg tttttcagct gaaacggaag   3060
              gagtacgaaa tgaaactgca tacagaagcc cagattcagg aagaaggcac cgtcgtggaa   3120
              ctgactggtc gtcagagctc cgagattacc cggacaatca ctaaactgag cttcgtgaag   3180
              gttgattccc actttcggca ggggattccc tttttcggac aggtgcgcct ggttgacggg   3240
              aaaggagttc cgatccccaa caaagtgatc tttattcgcg gcaatgaagc caactattac   3300
              agcaacgcga caactgatga gcatgggctg gtgcagttca gtatcaatac cacaaacgtg   3360
              atgggaacct cactgacagt ccgcgtgaat tataaagacc gttcaccgtg ttatggctac   3420
              cagtgggtga gcgaggaaca cgaggaagcc caccataccg cgtacctggt tttcagcccc   3480
              tccaaatctt ttgtccatct ggaacctatg tctcacgagc tgccgtgcgg ccatacccag   3540
                                                  Page 3

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              acagtgcagg cacattatat tctgaacggc ggcaccctgc tgggtctgaa aaagctgagc   3600
              ttttattacc tgattatggc taagggggga atcgtccgca ctggcaccca cggtctgctg   3660
              gttaaacagg aagatatgaa gggccatttc agtatttcaa tccctgttaa aagcgacatt   3720
              gctccggtcg cccgtctgct gatctatgcc gtgctgccaa ccggcgatgt tatcggtgac   3780
              tccgccaaat acgatgtgga gaattgtctg gcgaacaagg ttgacctgag cttttccccc   3840
<removed-apn>
              tctcagagtc tgccagcgtc tcatgcacat ctgcgtgtga ccgcagcccc tcagagcgtt   3900
              tgcgctctgc gtgcagtgga tcagtccgtg ctgctgatga agccagacgc agaactgtct   3960
              gctagcagcg tgtataatct gctgcctgag aaagatctga ccgggttccc aggacctctg   4020
              aacgatcagg atgacgaaga ctgtattaat cgccacaacg tgtatattaa tgggatcaca   4080
              tacactccgg tttcaagcac caacgaaaaa gatatgtaca gcttcctgga ggacatgggt   4140
              ctgaaagcgt ttaccaattc caagatccgg aaacccaaga tgtgcccaca gctgcagcag   4200
              tatgaaatgc acggacctga gggtctgcgt gtgggctttt acgaatctga tgtgatggga   4260
              cgtggtcatg cacgtctggt tcatgtcgag gaaccacaca ccgaaacagt gcgtaaatac   4320
              ttccctgaga cctggatttg ggacctggtt gtggtgaact ccgcgggtgt ggcagaagtg   4380
              ggtgttaccg tcccggatac tattaccgaa tggaaagcag gtgccttctg tctgtctgag   4440
              gatgcagggc tgggaatctc ctctacagcc tctctgcgcg cgtttcagcc ctttttcgtc   4500
              gaactgacta tgccatatag cgtgattcgt ggcgaggcat tcactctgaa agctaccgtg   4560
              ctgaattacc tgcccaagtg catccgcgtg agcgtgcagc tggaagctag tcccgccttt   4620
              ctggcggtcc cagtggagaa ggaacaggca ccgcactgca tttgtgctaa cggccggcag   4680
              actgtttcct gggccgtcac ccccaaatct ctgggtaatg tgaacttcac cgtttcagca   4740
              gaggctctgg aaagccagga gctgtgcggc accgaagtcc catccgtgcc tgagcatggt   4800
              cgcaaagata cagtcatcaa gcctctgctg gttgaaccgg aaggcctgga gaaggaaact   4860
              acctttaatt ctctgctgtg cccaagtggc ggtgaagtgt ccgaggaact gtctctgaaa   4920
              ctgccgccca acgtggtcga ggaatctgcc cgtgcgtcag ttagcgtcct gggggatatt   4980
              ctgggaagtg ccatgcagaa tacccagaac ctgctgcaga tgccgtatgg ctgtggcgag   5040
              cagaatatgg ttctgtttgc gcccaacatc tatgtcctgg attacctgaa tgaaacacag   5100
                                                  Page 4

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              cagctgactc ctgaaatcaa aagcaaggca atcgggtatc tgaataccgg ataccagcgg   5160
              cagctgaact ataagcacta cgacggctcc tattctacct tcggcgaacg gtacggtcgc   5220
              aatcagggga acacttggct gaccgccttt gtgctgaaaa cctttgccca ggctcgcgcc   5280
              tatatcttta ttgatgaggc ccatattaca caggcgctga tctggctgtc acagcgccag   5340
              aaggacaacg ggtgtttccg tagttcagga agcctgctga acaatgccat caaaggcggc   5400
<removed-apn>
              gtcgaggatg aagtgacact gagcgcatac attactatcg ctctgctgga aatccctctg   5460
              acagtgactc acccggtggt tcgcaatgct ctgttttgcc tggaaagtgc atggaaaaca   5520
              gctcaggaag gcgatcacgg atcacacgtg tatactaagg cactgctggc gtacgcattc   5580
              gctctggccg gcaaccagga taaacgtaaa gaagtgctga aatcactgaa tgaggaagca   5640
              gttaaaaagg acaacagcgt ccactgggaa cggccgcaga aacccaaggc tccagtgggt   5700
              cacttttatg agcctcaggc accgagtgct gaggtggaaa tgacctcata tgttctgctg   5760
              gcatacctga ccgcacagcc tgcccccaca tcagaagatc tgacaagcgc cactaatatt   5820
              gtgaaatgga tcaccaagca gcagaacgcg cagggcggtt ttagctccac ccaggacaca   5880
              gtcgtggcac tgcacgctct gtctaaatat ggggcagcta ccttcacacg cactggaaag   5940
              gccgcgcaag tgactattca gtctagtggc accttttcaa gcaagttcca ggtggataac   6000
              aataaccgtc tgctgctgca gcaggtgtcc ctgcccgaac tgccaggcga gtactctatg   6060
              aaagtcactg gggaaggatg cgtgtatctg cagacctccc tgaaatacaa tattctgccc   6120
              gagaaagaag aatttccatt cgcactgggc gtgcagaccc tgcctcagac atgcgatgaa   6180
              ccgaaggctc atacttcttt tcagatcagt ctgtcagtga gctataccgg gtcccgctct   6240
              gccagtaaca tggcgattgt ggatgtgaaa atggtgagtg gattcatccc tctgaaaccg   6300
              actgtgaaga tgctggaacg gagtaatcac gtttcacgca ccgaggtctc ctctaaccat   6360
              gtgctgatct acctggataa agtgtccaat cagacactgt ctctgttttt cactgtgctg   6420
              caggatgtcc ccgtgcgtga cctgaaacca gccattgtta aggtctatga ttattacgaa   6480
              accgacgagt tcgcgatcgc agaatacaac gcgccgtgca gcaaagacct ggggaatgct   6540
              gactacaagg acgacgacga caagggggca agccaccacc atcaccatca ctaaggatcc   6600
              aaaatcagcc tcgactgtgc cttctagttg ccagccatct gttgtttgcc cctcccccgt   6660
                                                  Page 5

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              gccttccttg accctggaag gtgccactcc cactgtcctt tcctaataaa atgaggaaat   6720
              tgcatcacaa cactcaaccc tatctcggtc tattcttttg atttataagg gattttgccg   6780
              atttcggcct attggttaaa aaatgagctg atttaacaaa aatttaacgc gaattaattc   6840
              tgtggaatgt gtgtcagtta gggtgtggaa agtccccagg ctccccagca ggcagaagta   6900
              tgcaaagcat gcatctcaat tagtcagcaa ccaggtgtgg aaagtcccca ggctccccag   6960
<removed-apn>
              caggcagaag tatgcaaagc atgcatctca attagtcagc aaccatagtc ccgcccctaa   7020
              ctccgcccat cccgccccta actccgccca gttccgccca ttctccgccc catggctgac   7080
              taattttttt tatttatgca gaggccgagg ccgcctctgc ctctgagcta ttccagaagt   7140
              agtgaggagg cttttttgga ggcctaggct tttgcaaaaa gctcccggga gcttgtatat   7200
              ccattttcgg atctgatcag cacgtgttga caattaatca tcggcatagt atatcggcat   7260
              agtataatac gacaaggtga ggaactaaac catggccaag cctttgtctc aagaagaatc   7320
              caccctcatt gaaagagcaa cggctacaat caacagcatc cccatctctg aagactacag   7380
              cgtcgccagc gcagctctct ctagcgacgg ccgcatcttc actggtgtca atgtatatca   7440
              ttttactggg ggaccttgtg cagaactcgt ggtgctgggc actgctgctg ctgcggcagc   7500
              tggcaacctg acttgtatcg tcgcgatcgg aaatgagaac aggggcatct tgagcccctg   7560
              cggacggtgc cgacaggtgc ttctcgatct gcatcctggg atcaaagcca tagtgaagga   7620
              cagtgatgga cagccgacgg cagttgggat tcgtgaattg ctgccctctg gttatgtgtg   7680
              ggagggctaa cacgtgctac gagatttcga ttccaccgcc gccttctatg aaaggttggg   7740
              cttcggaatc gttttccggg acgccggctg gatgatcctc cagcgcgggg atctcatgct   7800
              ggagttcttc gcccacccca acttgtttat tgcagcttat aatggttaca aataaagcaa   7860
              tagcatcaca aatttcacaa ataaagcatt tttttcactg cattctagtt gtggtttgtc   7920
              caaactcatc aatgtatctt atcatgtctg tataccgtcg acctctagct agagcttggc   7980
              gtaatcatgg tcattaccaa tgcttaatca gtgaggcacc tatctcagcg atctgtctat   8040
              ttcgttcatc catagttgcc tgactccccg tcgtgtagat aactacgata cgggagggct   8100
              taccatctgg ccccagcgct gcgatgatac cgcgagaacc acgctcaccg gctccggatt   8160
              tatcagcaat aaaccagcca gccggaaggg ccgagcgcag aagtggtcct gcaactttat   8220
                                                  Page 6

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              ccgcctccat ccagtctatt aattgttgcc gggaagctag agtaagtagt tcgccagtta   8280
              atagtttgcg caacgttgtt gccatcgcta caggcatcgt ggtgtcacgc tcgtcgtttg   8340
              gtatggcttc attcagctcc ggttcccaac gatcaaggcg agttacatga tcccccatgt   8400
              tgtgcaaaaa agcggttagc tccttcggtc ctccgatcgt tgtcagaagt aagttggccg   8460
              cagtgttatc actcatggtt atggcagcac tgcataattc tcttactgtc atgccatccg   8520
<removed-apn>
              taagatgctt ttctgtgact ggtgagtact caaccaagtc attctgagaa tagtgtatgc   8580
              ggcgaccgag ttgctcttgc ccggcgtcaa tacgggataa taccgcgcca catagcagaa   8640
              ctttaaaagt gctcatcatt ggaaaacgtt cttcggggcg aaaactctca aggatcttac   8700
              cgctgttgag atccagttcg atgtaaccca ctcgtgcacc caactgatct tcagcatctt   8760
              ttactttcac cagcgtttct gggtgagcaa aaacaggaag gcaaaatgcc gcaaaaaagg   8820
              gaataagggc gacacggaaa tgttgaatac tcatattctt cctttttcaa tattattgaa   8880
              gcatttatca gggttattgt ctcatgagcg gatacatatt tgaatgtatt tagaaaaata   8940
              aacaaatagg ggtcagtgtt acaaccaatt aaccaattct gaacattatc gcg          8993
              <210>   2
              <211>   8994
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polynucleotide
              <400> 2
              ctcatgacca aaatccctta acgtgagtta cgcgcgcgtc gttccactga gcgtcagacc     60
              ccgtagaaaa gatcaaagga tcttcttgag atcctttttt tctgcgcgta atctgctgct    120
              tgcaaacaaa aaaaccaccg ctaccagcgg tggtttgttt gccggatcaa gagctaccaa    180
              ctctttttcc gaaggtaact ggcttcagca gagcgcagat accaaatact gttcttctag    240
              tgtagccgta gttagcccac cacttcaaga actctgtagc accgcctaca tacctcgctc    300
              tgctaatcct gttaccagtg gctgctgcca gtggcgataa gtcgtgtctt accgggttgg    360
              actcaagacg atagttaccg gataaggcgc agcggtcggg ctgaacgggg ggttcgtgca    420
              cacagcccag cttggagcga acgacctaca ccgaactgag atacctacag cgtgagctat    480
                                                  Page 7

                                          559XXCYT     Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              gagaaagcgc cacgcttccc gaagggagaa aggcggacag gtatccggta agcggcaggg    540
              tcggaacagg agagcgcacg agggagcttc cagggggaaa cgcctggtat ctttatagtc    600
              ctgtcgggtt tcgccacctc tgacttgagc gtcgattttt gtgatgctcg tcaggggggc    660
              ggagcctatg gaaaaacgcc agcaacgcgg cctttttacg gttcctggcc ttttgctggc    720
              cttttgctca catgttcttt cctgcgttat cccctgattc tgtggataac cgtattaccg    780
<removed-apn>
              cctttgagtg agctgatacc gctcgccgca gccgaacgac cgagcgcagc gagtcagtga    840
              gcgaggaagc ggaaggcgag agtagggaac tgccaggcat caaactaagc agaaggcccc    900
              tgacggatgg cctttttgcg tttctacaaa ctctttctgt gttgtaaaac gacggccagt    960
              cttaagctcg ggccccctgg gcggttctga taacgagtaa tcgttaatcc gcaaataacg   1020
              taaaaacccg cttcggcggg tttttttatg gggggagttt agggaaagag catttgtcag   1080
              aatatttaag ggcgcctgtc actttgcttg atatatgaga attatttaac cttataaatg   1140
              agaaaaaagc aacgcacttt aaataagata cgttgctttt tcgattgatg aacacctata   1200
              attaaactat tcatctatta tttatgattt tttgtatata caatatttct agtttgttaa   1260
              agagaattaa gaaaataaat ctcgaaaata ataaagggaa aatcagtttt tgatatcaaa   1320
              attatacatg tcaacgataa tacaaaatat aatacaaact ataagatgtt atcagtattt   1380
              attatcattt agaataaatt ttgtgtcgcc cttaattgtg agcggataac aattacgagc   1440
              ttcatgcaca gtggcgttga cattgattat tgactagtta ttaatagtaa tcaattacgg   1500
              ggtcattagt tcatagccca tatatggagt tccgcgttac ataacttacg gtaaatggcc   1560
              cgcctggctg accgcccaac gacccccgcc cattgacgtc aataatgacg tatgttccca   1620
              tagtaacgcc aatagggact ttccattgac gtcaatgggt ggagtattta cggtaaactg   1680
              cccacttggc agtacatcaa gtgtatcata tgccaagtac gccccctatt gacgtcaatg   1740
              acggtaaatg gcccgcctgg cattatgccc agtacatgac cttatgggac tttcctactt   1800
              ggcagtacat ctacgtatta gtcatcgcta ttaccatggt gatgcggttt tggcagtaca   1860
              tcaatgggcg tggatagcgg tttgactcac ggggatttcc aagtctccac cccattgacg   1920
              tcaatgggag tttgttttgg caccaaaatc aacgggactt tccaaaatgt cgtaacaact   1980
              ccgccccatt gacgcaaatg ggcggtaggc gtgtacggtg ggaggtctat ataagcagag   2040
                                                     Page 8

                                          559XXCYT     Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              ctctctggct aactagagaa cccactgctt actggcttat cgaaattaat acgactcact   2100
              ataggggtac ctgccaccat ggggaaaaac aaactgctgc atccaagcct ggtcctgctg   2160
              ctgctggttc tgctgcctac tgacgcctct gtgagcggaa agccccagta tatggttctg   2220
              gtcccgtccc tgctgcacac cgagaccaca gaaaaagggt gcgtgctgct gtcttacctg   2280
              aatgaaacag tgactgttag tgcctcactg gagagtgtgc gcggaaatcg ttcactgttc   2340
<removed-apn>
              accgatctgg aggcggaaaa cgatgtgctg cattgcgtcg catttgctgt gccaaaaagc   2400
              tcctctaatg aagaagtgat gttcctgacc gtccaggtga agggccctac acaggaattc   2460
              aaaaaacgca ctaccgttat ggtcaaaaac gaggatagcc tggtgtttgt tcagacagac   2520
              aaatccatct ataagcctgg tcagactgtg aagttccggg tggttagcat ggatgaaaat   2580
              tttcaccccc tgaacgagct gattccactg gtgtacatcc aggaccctaa aggcaaccgc   2640
              atcgcccagt ggcagtcttt ccagctggaa ggcggtctga agcagtttag tttccctctg   2700
              agttcagagc cgtttcaggg ttcttataaa gtcgtggttc agaaaaagag tgggggacgt   2760
              actgaacatc cttttaccgt tgaagagttc gtcctgccga aatttgaggt ccaggtgacc   2820
              gttcccaaga ttatcacaat tctggaagag gaaatgaacg tgagcgtgtg cggactgtat   2880
              acctacggca aaccagtgcc tggtcacgtt acagtcagta tctgccgtaa gtactcagat   2940
              gcaagcgact gtcatggcga agattcacag gctttttgcg agaagttcag cggccagctg   3000
              aactcccacg gttgcttcta tcagcaggtg aaaaccaagg tttttcagct gaaacggaag   3060
              gagtacgaaa tgaaactgca tacagaagcc cagattcagg aagaaggcac cgtcgtggaa   3120
              ctgactggtc gtcagagctc cgagattacc cggacaatca ctaaactgag cttcgtgaag   3180
              gttgattccc actttcggca ggggattccc tttttcggac aggtgcgcct ggttgacggg   3240
              aaaggagttc cgatccccaa caaagtgatc tttattcgcg gcaatgaagc caactattac   3300
              agcaacgcga caactgatga gcatgggctg gtgcagttca gtatcaatac cacaaacgtg   3360
              atgggaacct cactgacagt ccgcgtgaat tataaagacc gttcaccgtg ttatggctac   3420
              cagtgggtga gcgaggaaca cgaggaagcc caccataccg cgtacctggt tttcagcccc   3480
              tccaaatctt ttgtccatct ggaacctatg tctcacgagc tgccgtgcgg ccatacccag   3540
              acagtgcagg cacattatat tctgaacggc ggcaccctgc tgggtctgaa aaagctgagc   3600
                                                     Page 9

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              ttttattacc tgattatggc taagggggga atcgtccgca ctggcaccca cggtctgctg   3660
              gttaaacagg aagatatgaa gggccatttc agtatttcaa tccctgttaa aagcgacatt   3720
              gctccggtcg cccgtctgct gatctatgcc gtgctgccaa ccggcgatgt tatcggtgac   3780
              tccgccaaat acgatgtgga gaattgtctg gcgaacaagg ttgacctgag cttttccccc   3840
              tctcagagtc tgccagcgtc tcatgcacat ctgcgtgtga ccgcagcccc tcagagcgtt   3900
<removed-apn>
              tgcgctctgc gtgcagtgga tcagtccgtg ctgctgatga agccagacgc agaactgtct   3960
              gctagcagcg tgtataatct gctgcctgag aaagatctga ccgggttccc aggacctctg   4020
              aacgatcagg atgacgaaga ctgtattaat cgccacaacg tgtatattaa tgggatcaca   4080
              tacactccgg tttcaagcac caacgaaaaa gatatgtaca gcttcctgga ggacatgggt   4140
              ctgaaagcgt ttaccaattc caagatccgg aaaccccaag atgtgcccac agctcgagca   4200
              gtatgaaatg cacggacctg agggtctgcg tgtgggcttt tacgaatctg atgtgatggg   4260
              acgtggtcat gcacgtctgg ttcatgtcga ggaaccacac accgaaaagc ttcgtaaata   4320
              cttccctgag acctggattt gggacctggt tgtggtgaac tccgcgggtg tggcagaagt   4380
              gggtgttacc gtcccggata ctattaccga atggaaagca ggtgccttct gtctgtctga   4440
              ggatgcaggg ctgggaatct cctctacagc ctctctgcgc gcgtttcagc cctttttcgt   4500
              cgaactgact atgccatata gcgtgattcg tggcgaggca ttcactctga aagctaccgt   4560
              gctgaattac ctgcccaagt gcatccgcgt gagcgtgcag ctggaagcta gtcccgcctt   4620
              tctggcggtc ccagtggaga aggaacaggc accgcactgc atttgtgcta acggccggca   4680
              gactgtttcc tgggccgtca cccccaaatc tctgggtaat gtgaacttca ccgtttcagc   4740
              agaggctctg gaaagccagg agctgtgcgg caccgaagtc ccatccgtgc ctgagcatgg   4800
              tcgcaaagat acagtcatca agcctctgct ggttgaaccg gaaggcctgg agaaggaaac   4860
              tacctttaat tctctgctgt gcccaagtgg cggtgaagtg tccgaggaac tgtctctgaa   4920
              actgccgccc aacgtggtcg aggaatctgc ccgtgcgtca gttagcgtcc tgggggatat   4980
              tctgggaagt gccatgcaga atacccagaa cctgctgcag atgccgtatg gctgtggcga   5040
              gcagaatatg gttctgtttg cgcccaacat ctatgtcctg gattacctga atgaaacaca   5100
              gcagctgact cctgaaatca aaagcaaggc aatcgggtat ctgaataccg gataccagcg   5160
                                                  Page 10

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              gcagctgaac tataagcact acgacggctc ctattctacc ttcggcgaac ggtacggtcg   5220
              caatcagggg aacacttggc tgaccgcctt tgtgctgaaa acctttgccc aggctcgcgc   5280
              ctatatcttt attgatgagg cccatattac acaggcgctg atctggctgt cacagcgcca   5340
              gaaggacaac gggtgtttcc gtagttcagg aagcctgctg aacaatgcca tcaaaggcgg   5400
              cgtcgaggat gaagtgacac tgagcgcata cattactatc gctctgctgg aaatccctct   5460
<removed-apn>
              gacagtgact cacccggtgg ttcgcaatgc tctgttttgc ctggaaagtg catggaaaac   5520
              agctcaggaa ggcgatcacg gatcacacgt gtatactaag gcactgctgg cgtacgcatt   5580
              cgctctggcc ggcaaccagg ataaacgtaa agaagtgctg aaatcactga atgaggaagc   5640
              agttaaaaag gacaacagcg tccactggga acggccgcag aaacccaagg ctccagtggg   5700
              tcacttttat gagcctcagg caccgagtgc tgaggtggaa atgacctcat atgttctgct   5760
              ggcatacctg accgcacagc ctgcccccac atcagaagat ctgacaagcg ccactaatat   5820
              tgtgaaatgg atcaccaagc agcagaacgc gcagggcggt tttagctcca cccaggacac   5880
              agtcgtggca ctgcacgctc tgtctaaata tggggcagct accttcacac gcactggaaa   5940
              ggccgcgcaa gtgactattc agtctagtgg caccttttca agcaagttcc aggtggataa   6000
              caataaccgt ctgctgctgc agcaggtgtc cctgcccgaa ctgccaggcg agtactctat   6060
              gaaagtcact ggggaaggat gcgtgtatct gcagacctcc ctgaaataca atattctgcc   6120
              cgagaaagaa gaatttccat tcgcactggg cgtgcagacc ctgcctcaga catgcgatga   6180
              accgaaggct catacttctt ttcagatcag tctgtcagtg agctataccg ggtcccgctc   6240
              tgccagtaac atggcgattg tggatgtgaa aatggtgagt ggattcatcc ctctgaaacc   6300
              gactgtgaag atgctggaac ggagtaatca cgtttcacgc accgaggtct cctctaacca   6360
              tgtgctgatc tacctggata aagtgtccaa tcagacactg tctctgtttt tcactgtgct   6420
              gcaggatgtc cccgtgcgtg acctgaaacc agccattgtt aaggtctatg attattacga   6480
              aaccgacgag ttcgcgatcg cagaatacaa cgcgccgtgc agcaaagacc tggggaatgc   6540
              tgactacaag gacgacgacg acaagggggc aagccaccac catcaccatc actaaggatc   6600
              caaaatcagc ctcgactgtg ccttctagtt gccagccatc tgttgtttgc ccctcccccg   6660
              tgccttcctt gaccctggaa ggtgccactc ccactgtcct ttcctaataa aatgaggaaa   6720
                                                  Page 11

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              ttgcatcaca acactcaacc ctatctcggt ctattctttt gatttataag ggattttgcc   6780
              gatttcggcc tattggttaa aaaatgagct gatttaacaa aaatttaacg cgaattaatt   6840
              ctgtggaatg tgtgtcagtt agggtgtgga aagtccccag gctccccagc aggcagaagt   6900
              atgcaaagca tgcatctcaa ttagtcagca accaggtgtg gaaagtcccc aggctcccca   6960
              gcaggcagaa gtatgcaaag catgcatctc aattagtcag caaccatagt cccgccccta   7020
<removed-apn>
              actccgccca tcccgcccct aactccgccc agttccgccc attctccgcc ccatggctga   7080
              ctaatttttt ttatttatgc agaggccgag gccgcctctg cctctgagct attccagaag   7140
              tagtgaggag gcttttttgg aggcctaggc ttttgcaaaa agctcccggg agcttgtata   7200
              tccattttcg gatctgatca gcacgtgttg acaattaatc atcggcatag tatatcggca   7260
              tagtataata cgacaaggtg aggaactaaa ccatggccaa gcctttgtct caagaagaat   7320
              ccaccctcat tgaaagagca acggctacaa tcaacagcat ccccatctct gaagactaca   7380
              gcgtcgccag cgcagctctc tctagcgacg gccgcatctt cactggtgtc aatgtatatc   7440
              attttactgg gggaccttgt gcagaactcg tggtgctggg cactgctgct gctgcggcag   7500
              ctggcaacct gacttgtatc gtcgcgatcg gaaatgagaa caggggcatc ttgagcccct   7560
              gcggacggtg ccgacaggtg cttctcgatc tgcatcctgg gatcaaagcc atagtgaagg   7620
              acagtgatgg acagccgacg gcagttggga ttcgtgaatt gctgccctct ggttatgtgt   7680
              gggagggcta acacgtgcta cgagatttcg attccaccgc cgccttctat gaaaggttgg   7740
              gcttcggaat cgttttccgg gacgccggct ggatgatcct ccagcgcggg gatctcatgc   7800
              tggagttctt cgcccacccc aacttgttta ttgcagctta taatggttac aaataaagca   7860
              atagcatcac aaatttcaca aataaagcat ttttttcact gcattctagt tgtggtttgt   7920
              ccaaactcat caatgtatct tatcatgtct gtataccgtc gacctctagc tagagcttgg   7980
              cgtaatcatg gtcattacca atgcttaatc agtgaggcac ctatctcagc gatctgtcta   8040
              tttcgttcat ccatagttgc ctgactcccc gtcgtgtaga taactacgat acgggagggc   8100
              ttaccatctg gccccagcgc tgcgatgata ccgcgagaac cacgctcacc ggctccggat   8160
              ttatcagcaa taaaccagcc agccggaagg gccgagcgca gaagtggtcc tgcaacttta   8220
              tccgcctcca tccagtctat taattgttgc cgggaagcta gagtaagtag ttcgccagtt   8280
                                                  Page 12

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              aatagtttgc gcaacgttgt tgccatcgct acaggcatcg tggtgtcacg ctcgtcgttt   8340
              ggtatggctt cattcagctc cggttcccaa cgatcaaggc gagttacatg atcccccatg   8400
              ttgtgcaaaa aagcggttag ctccttcggt cctccgatcg ttgtcagaag taagttggcc   8460
              gcagtgttat cactcatggt tatggcagca ctgcataatt ctcttactgt catgccatcc   8520
              gtaagatgct tttctgtgac tggtgagtac tcaaccaagt cattctgaga atagtgtatg   8580
<removed-apn>
              cggcgaccga gttgctcttg cccggcgtca atacgggata ataccgcgcc acatagcaga   8640
              actttaaaag tgctcatcat tggaaaacgt tcttcggggc gaaaactctc aaggatctta   8700
              ccgctgttga gatccagttc gatgtaaccc actcgtgcac ccaactgatc ttcagcatct   8760
              tttactttca ccagcgtttc tgggtgagca aaaacaggaa ggcaaaatgc cgcaaaaaag   8820
              ggaataaggg cgacacggaa atgttgaata ctcatattct tcctttttca atattattga   8880
              agcatttatc agggttattg tctcatgagc ggatacatat ttgaatgtat ttagaaaaat   8940
              aaacaaatag gggtcagtgt tacaaccaat taaccaattc tgaacattat cgcg         8994
              <210>   3
              <211>   1491
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <220>
              <223>    Tagged wild type human A2M polypeptide
              <400> 3
              Met Gly Lys Asn Lys Leu Leu His Pro Ser Leu Val Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Leu Leu Pro Thr Asp Ala Ser Val Ser Gly Lys Pro Gln Tyr Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Leu Val Pro Ser Leu Leu His Thr Glu Thr Thr Glu Lys Gly Cys
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Leu Leu Ser Tyr Leu Asn Glu Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ala Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
                                                    Page 13

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Glu Ser Val Arg Gly Asn Arg Ser Leu Phe Thr Asp Leu Glu Ala Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Asp Val Leu His Cys Val Ala Phe Ala Val Pro Lys Ser Ser Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Glu Glu Val Met Phe Leu Thr Val Gln Val Lys Gly Pro Thr Gln
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Glu Phe Lys Lys Arg Thr Thr Val Met Val Lys Asn Glu Asp Ser Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Val Gln Thr Asp Lys Ser Ile Tyr Lys Pro Gly Gln Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Phe Arg Val Val Ser Met Asp Glu Asn Phe His Pro Leu Asn Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Ile Pro Leu Val Tyr Ile Gln Asp Pro Lys Gly Asn Arg Ile Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Trp Gln Ser Phe Gln Leu Glu Gly Gly Leu Lys Gln Phe Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Leu Ser Ser Glu Pro Phe Gln Gly Ser Tyr Lys Val Val Val Gln
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Lys Ser Gly Gly Arg Thr Glu His Pro Phe Thr Val Glu Glu Phe
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Leu Pro Lys Phe Glu Val Gln Val Thr Val Pro Lys Ile Ile Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ile Leu Glu Glu Glu Met Asn Val Ser Val Cys Gly Leu Tyr Thr Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Lys Pro Val Pro Gly His Val Thr Val Ser Ile Cys Arg Lys Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
                                                  Page 14

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Asp Ala Ser Asp Cys His Gly Glu Asp Ser Gln Ala Phe Cys Glu
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Phe Ser Gly Gln Leu Asn Ser His Gly Cys Phe Tyr Gln Gln Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Thr Lys Val Phe Gln Leu Lys Arg Lys Glu Tyr Glu Met Lys Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              His Thr Glu Ala Gln Ile Gln Glu Glu Gly Thr Val Val Glu Leu Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Arg Gln Ser Ser Glu Ile Thr Arg Thr Ile Thr Lys Leu Ser Phe
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Lys Val Asp Ser His Phe Arg Gln Gly Ile Pro Phe Phe Gly Gln
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Arg Leu Val Asp Gly Lys Gly Val Pro Ile Pro Asn Lys Val Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Phe Ile Arg Gly Asn Glu Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Asn Ala Thr Thr Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu His Gly Leu Val Gln Phe Ser Ile Asn Thr Thr Asn Val Met Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Ser Leu Thr Val Arg Val Asn Tyr Lys Asp Arg Ser Pro Cys Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Tyr Gln Trp Val Ser Glu Glu His Glu Glu Ala His His Thr Ala
                      435                 440                 445
              Tyr Leu Val Phe Ser Pro Ser Lys Ser Phe Val His Leu Glu Pro Met
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser His Glu Leu Pro Cys Gly His Thr Gln Thr Val Gln Ala His Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
                                                  Page 15

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ile Leu Asn Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Gly Leu Lys Lys Leu Ser Phe Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Leu Ile Met Ala Lys Gly Gly Ile Val Arg Thr Gly Thr His Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Leu Val Lys Gln Glu Asp Met Lys Gly His Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile
                      515                 520                 525
<removed-apn>
              Pro Val Lys Ser Asp Ile Ala Pro Val Ala Arg Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala
                  530                 535                 540
              Val Leu Pro Thr Gly Asp Val Ile Gly Asp Ser Ala Lys Tyr Asp Val
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Glu Asn Cys Leu Ala Asn Lys Val Asp Leu Ser Phe Ser Pro Ser Gln
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Leu Pro Ala Ser His Ala His Leu Arg Val Thr Ala Ala Pro Gln
                          580                 585                 590
              Ser Val Cys Ala Leu Arg Ala Val Asp Gln Ser Val Leu Leu Met Lys
                      595                 600                 605
              Pro Asp Ala Glu Leu Ser Ala Ser Ser Val Tyr Asn Leu Leu Pro Glu
                  610                 615                 620
              Lys Asp Leu Thr Gly Phe Pro Gly Pro Leu Asn Asp Gln Asp Asp Glu
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Asp Cys Ile Asn Arg His Asn Val Tyr Ile Asn Gly Ile Thr Tyr Thr
                              645                 650                 655
              Pro Val Ser Ser Thr Asn Glu Lys Asp Met Tyr Ser Phe Leu Glu Asp
                          660                 665                 670
              Met Gly Leu Lys Ala Phe Thr Asn Ser Lys Ile Arg Lys Pro Lys Met
                      675                 680                 685
                                                  Page 16

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Cys Pro Gln Leu Gln Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg
                  690                 695                 700
              Val Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg Gly His Ala Arg Leu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Glu Thr Val Arg Lys Tyr Phe Pro
                              725                 730                 735
<removed-apn>
              Glu Thr Trp Ile Trp Asp Leu Val Val Val Asn Ser Ala Gly Val Ala
                          740                 745                 750
              Glu Val Gly Val Thr Val Pro Asp Thr Ile Thr Glu Trp Lys Ala Gly
                      755                 760                 765
              Ala Phe Cys Leu Ser Glu Asp Ala Gly Leu Gly Ile Ser Ser Thr Ala
                  770                 775                 780
              Ser Leu Arg Ala Phe Gln Pro Phe Phe Val Glu Leu Thr Met Pro Tyr
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Ser Val Ile Arg Gly Glu Ala Phe Thr Leu Lys Ala Thr Val Leu Asn
                              805                 810                 815
              Tyr Leu Pro Lys Cys Ile Arg Val Ser Val Gln Leu Glu Ala Ser Pro
                          820                 825                 830
              Ala Phe Leu Ala Val Pro Val Glu Lys Glu Gln Ala Pro His Cys Ile
                      835                 840                 845
              Cys Ala Asn Gly Arg Gln Thr Val Ser Trp Ala Val Thr Pro Lys Ser
                  850                 855                 860
              Leu Gly Asn Val Asn Phe Thr Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Leu Glu Ser Gln
              865                 870                 875                 880
              Glu Leu Cys Gly Thr Glu Val Pro Ser Val Pro Glu His Gly Arg Lys
                              885                 890                 895
                                                  Page 17

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Asp Thr Val Ile Lys Pro Leu Leu Val Glu Pro Glu Gly Leu Glu Lys
                          900                 905                 910
              Glu Thr Thr Phe Asn Ser Leu Leu Cys Pro Ser Gly Gly Glu Val Ser
                      915                 920                 925
              Glu Glu Leu Ser Leu Lys Leu Pro Pro Asn Val Val Glu Glu Ser Ala
                  930                 935                 940
<removed-apn>
              Arg Ala Ser Val Ser Val Leu Gly Asp Ile Leu Gly Ser Ala Met Gln
              945                 950                 955                 960
              Asn Thr Gln Asn Leu Leu Gln Met Pro Tyr Gly Cys Gly Glu Gln Asn
                              965                 970                 975
              Met Val Leu Phe Ala Pro Asn Ile Tyr Val Leu Asp Tyr Leu Asn Glu
                          980                 985                 990
              Thr Gln Gln Leu Thr Pro Glu Ile Lys Ser Lys Ala Ile Gly Tyr Leu
                      995                 1000                1005
              Asn Thr Gly Tyr Gln Arg Gln Leu Asn Tyr Lys His Tyr Asp Gly
                  1010                1015                1020
              Ser Tyr Ser Thr Phe Gly Glu Arg Tyr Gly Arg Asn Gln Gly Asn
                  1025                1030                1035
              Thr Trp Leu Thr Ala Phe Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Ala Gln Ala Arg
                  1040                1045                1050
              Ala Tyr Ile Phe Ile Asp Glu Ala His Ile Thr Gln Ala Leu Ile
                  1055                1060                1065
              Trp Leu Ser Gln Arg Gln Lys Asp Asn Gly Cys Phe Arg Ser Ser
                  1070                1075                1080
              Gly Ser Leu Leu Asn Asn Ala Ile Lys Gly Gly Val Glu Asp Glu
                  1085                1090                1095
                                                  Page 18

                                          559XXCYT  Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Val Thr Leu Ser Ala Tyr Ile Thr Ile Ala Leu Leu Glu Ile Pro
                  1100                1105                1110
              Leu Thr Val Thr His Pro Val Val Arg Asn Ala Leu Phe Cys Leu
                  1115                1120                1125
              Glu Ser Ala Trp Lys Thr Ala Gln Glu Gly Asp His Gly Ser His
                  1130                1135                1140
<removed-apn>
              Val Tyr Thr Lys Ala Leu Leu Ala Tyr Ala Phe Ala Leu Ala Gly
                  1145                1150                1155
              Asn Gln Asp Lys Arg Lys Glu Val Leu Lys Ser Leu Asn Glu Glu
                  1160                1165                1170
              Ala Val Lys Lys Asp Asn Ser Val His Trp Glu Arg Pro Gln Lys
                  1175                1180                1185
              Pro Lys Ala Pro Val Gly His Phe Tyr Glu Pro Gln Ala Pro Ser
                  1190                1195                1200
              Ala Glu Val Glu Met Thr Ser Tyr Val Leu Leu Ala Tyr Leu Thr
                  1205                1210                1215
              Ala Gln Pro Ala Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Thr Ser Ala Thr Asn
                  1220                1225                1230
              Ile Val Lys Trp Ile Thr Lys Gln Gln Asn Ala Gln Gly Gly Phe
                  1235                1240                1245
              Ser Ser Thr Gln Asp Thr Val Val Ala Leu His Ala Leu Ser Lys
                  1250                1255                1260
              Tyr Gly Ala Ala Thr Phe Thr Arg Thr Gly Lys Ala Ala Gln Val
                  1265                1270                1275
              Thr Ile Gln Ser Ser Gly Thr Phe Ser Ser Lys Phe Gln Val Asp
                  1280                1285                1290
                                                Page 19

                                          559XXCYT  Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Asn Asn Asn Arg Leu Leu Leu Gln Gln Val Ser Leu Pro Glu Leu
                  1295                1300                1305
              Pro Gly Glu Tyr Ser Met Lys Val Thr Gly Glu Gly Cys Val Tyr
                  1310                1315                1320
              Leu Gln Thr Ser Leu Lys Tyr Asn Ile Leu Pro Glu Lys Glu Glu
                  1325                1330                1335
<removed-apn>
              Phe Pro Phe Ala Leu Gly Val Gln Thr Leu Pro Gln Thr Cys Asp
                  1340                1345                1350
              Glu Pro Lys Ala His Thr Ser Phe Gln Ile Ser Leu Ser Val Ser
                  1355                1360                1365
              Tyr Thr Gly Ser Arg Ser Ala Ser Asn Met Ala Ile Val Asp Val
                  1370                1375                1380
              Lys Met Val Ser Gly Phe Ile Pro Leu Lys Pro Thr Val Lys Met
                  1385                1390                1395
              Leu Glu Arg Ser Asn His Val Ser Arg Thr Glu Val Ser Ser Asn
                  1400                1405                1410
              His Val Leu Ile Tyr Leu Asp Lys Val Ser Asn Gln Thr Leu Ser
                  1415                1420                1425
              Leu Phe Phe Thr Val Leu Gln Asp Val Pro Val Arg Asp Leu Lys
                  1430                1435                1440
              Pro Ala Ile Val Lys Val Tyr Asp Tyr Tyr Glu Thr Asp Glu Phe
                  1445                1450                1455
              Ala Ile Ala Glu Tyr Asn Ala Pro Cys Ser Lys Asp Leu Gly Asn
                  1460                1465                1470
              Ala Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Gly Ala Ser His His His
                  1475                1480                1485
                                                Page 20

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              His His His
                  1490
              <210>   4
              <211>   1491
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 4
              Met Gly Lys Asn Lys Leu Leu His Pro Ser Leu Val Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Leu Leu Pro Thr Asp Ala Ser Val Ser Gly Lys Pro Gln Tyr Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Leu Val Pro Ser Leu Leu His Thr Glu Thr Thr Glu Lys Gly Cys
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Leu Leu Ser Tyr Leu Asn Glu Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ala Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Ser Val Arg Gly Asn Arg Ser Leu Phe Thr Asp Leu Glu Ala Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Asp Val Leu His Cys Val Ala Phe Ala Val Pro Lys Ser Ser Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Glu Glu Val Met Phe Leu Thr Val Gln Val Lys Gly Pro Thr Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Phe Lys Lys Arg Thr Thr Val Met Val Lys Asn Glu Asp Ser Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Phe Val Gln Thr Asp Lys Ser Ile Tyr Lys Pro Gly Gln Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Phe Arg Val Val Ser Met Asp Glu Asn Phe His Pro Leu Asn Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                   Page 21

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Leu Ile Pro Leu Val Tyr Ile Gln Asp Pro Lys Gly Asn Arg Ile Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Trp Gln Ser Phe Gln Leu Glu Gly Gly Leu Lys Gln Phe Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Pro Leu Ser Ser Glu Pro Phe Gln Gly Ser Tyr Lys Val Val Val Gln
                      195                 200                 205
              Lys Lys Ser Gly Gly Arg Thr Glu His Pro Phe Thr Val Glu Glu Phe
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Leu Pro Lys Phe Glu Val Gln Val Thr Val Pro Lys Ile Ile Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ile Leu Glu Glu Glu Met Asn Val Ser Val Cys Gly Leu Tyr Thr Tyr
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Lys Pro Val Pro Gly His Val Thr Val Ser Ile Cys Arg Lys Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Asp Ala Ser Asp Cys His Gly Glu Asp Ser Gln Ala Phe Cys Glu
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Phe Ser Gly Gln Leu Asn Ser His Gly Cys Phe Tyr Gln Gln Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Thr Lys Val Phe Gln Leu Lys Arg Lys Glu Tyr Glu Met Lys Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              His Thr Glu Ala Gln Ile Gln Glu Glu Gly Thr Val Val Glu Leu Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Arg Gln Ser Ser Glu Ile Thr Arg Thr Ile Thr Lys Leu Ser Phe
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Lys Val Asp Ser His Phe Arg Gln Gly Ile Pro Phe Phe Gly Gln
                      355                 360                 365
                                                  Page 22

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Val Arg Leu Val Asp Gly Lys Gly Val Pro Ile Pro Asn Lys Val Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Phe Ile Arg Gly Asn Glu Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Asn Ala Thr Thr Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
<removed-apn>
              Glu His Gly Leu Val Gln Phe Ser Ile Asn Thr Thr Asn Val Met Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Ser Leu Thr Val Arg Val Asn Tyr Lys Asp Arg Ser Pro Cys Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Tyr Gln Trp Val Ser Glu Glu His Glu Glu Ala His His Thr Ala
                      435                 440                 445
              Tyr Leu Val Phe Ser Pro Ser Lys Ser Phe Val His Leu Glu Pro Met
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser His Glu Leu Pro Cys Gly His Thr Gln Thr Val Gln Ala His Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ile Leu Asn Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Gly Leu Lys Lys Leu Ser Phe Tyr
                              485                 490                 495
              Tyr Leu Ile Met Ala Lys Gly Gly Ile Val Arg Thr Gly Thr His Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Leu Val Lys Gln Glu Asp Met Lys Gly His Phe Ser Ile Ser Ile
                      515                 520                 525
              Pro Val Lys Ser Asp Ile Ala Pro Val Ala Arg Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala
                  530                 535                 540
              Val Leu Pro Thr Gly Asp Val Ile Gly Asp Ser Ala Lys Tyr Asp Val
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Glu Asn Cys Leu Ala Asn Lys Val Asp Leu Ser Phe Ser Pro Ser Gln
                              565                 570                 575
                                                  Page 23

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Pro Ala Ser His Ala His Leu Arg Val Thr Ala Ala Pro Gln
                          580                 585                 590
              Ser Val Cys Ala Leu Arg Ala Val Asp Gln Ser Val Leu Leu Met Lys
                      595                 600                 605
<removed-apn>
              Pro Asp Ala Glu Leu Ser Ala Ser Ser Val Tyr Asn Leu Leu Pro Glu
                  610                 615                 620
              Lys Asp Leu Thr Gly Phe Pro Gly Pro Leu Asn Asp Gln Asp Asp Glu
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Asp Cys Ile Asn Arg His Asn Val Tyr Ile Asn Gly Ile Thr Tyr Thr
                              645                 650                 655
              Pro Val Ser Ser Thr Asn Glu Lys Asp Met Tyr Ser Phe Leu Glu Asp
                          660                 665                 670
              Met Gly Leu Lys Ala Phe Thr Asn Ser Lys Ile Arg Lys Pro Lys Met
                      675                 680                 685
              Cys Pro Gln Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg
                  690                 695                 700
              Val Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg Gly His Ala Arg Leu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Glu Lys Leu Arg Lys Tyr Phe Pro
                              725                 730                 735
              Glu Thr Trp Ile Trp Asp Leu Val Val Val Asn Ser Ala Gly Val Ala
                          740                 745                 750
              Glu Val Gly Val Thr Val Pro Asp Thr Ile Thr Glu Trp Lys Ala Gly
                      755                 760                 765
              Ala Phe Cys Leu Ser Glu Asp Ala Gly Leu Gly Ile Ser Ser Thr Ala
                  770                 775                 780
                                                  Page 24

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Ala Phe Gln Pro Phe Phe Val Glu Leu Thr Met Pro Tyr
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Ser Val Ile Arg Gly Glu Ala Phe Thr Leu Lys Ala Thr Val Leu Asn
                              805                 810                 815
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Leu Pro Lys Cys Ile Arg Val Ser Val Gln Leu Glu Ala Ser Pro
                          820                 825                 830
              Ala Phe Leu Ala Val Pro Val Glu Lys Glu Gln Ala Pro His Cys Ile
                      835                 840                 845
              Cys Ala Asn Gly Arg Gln Thr Val Ser Trp Ala Val Thr Pro Lys Ser
                  850                 855                 860
              Leu Gly Asn Val Asn Phe Thr Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Leu Glu Ser Gln
              865                 870                 875                 880
              Glu Leu Cys Gly Thr Glu Val Pro Ser Val Pro Glu His Gly Arg Lys
                              885                 890                 895
              Asp Thr Val Ile Lys Pro Leu Leu Val Glu Pro Glu Gly Leu Glu Lys
                          900                 905                 910
              Glu Thr Thr Phe Asn Ser Leu Leu Cys Pro Ser Gly Gly Glu Val Ser
                      915                 920                 925
              Glu Glu Leu Ser Leu Lys Leu Pro Pro Asn Val Val Glu Glu Ser Ala
                  930                 935                 940
              Arg Ala Ser Val Ser Val Leu Gly Asp Ile Leu Gly Ser Ala Met Gln
              945                 950                 955                 960
              Asn Thr Gln Asn Leu Leu Gln Met Pro Tyr Gly Cys Gly Glu Gln Asn
                              965                 970                 975
              Met Val Leu Phe Ala Pro Asn Ile Tyr Val Leu Asp Tyr Leu Asn Glu
                          980                 985                 990
                                                  Page 25

                                         559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Thr Gln Gln Leu Thr Pro Glu Ile Lys Ser Lys Ala Ile Gly Tyr Leu
                      995                 1000                1005
              Asn Thr Gly Tyr Gln Arg Gln Leu Asn Tyr Lys His Tyr Asp Gly
                  1010                1015                1020
<removed-apn>
              Ser Tyr Ser Thr Phe Gly Glu Arg Tyr Gly Arg Asn Gln Gly Asn
                  1025                1030                1035
              Thr Trp Leu Thr Ala Phe Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Ala Gln Ala Arg
                  1040                1045                1050
              Ala Tyr Ile Phe Ile Asp Glu Ala His Ile Thr Gln Ala Leu Ile
                  1055                1060                1065
              Trp Leu Ser Gln Arg Gln Lys Asp Asn Gly Cys Phe Arg Ser Ser
                  1070                1075                1080
              Gly Ser Leu Leu Asn Asn Ala Ile Lys Gly Gly Val Glu Asp Glu
                  1085                1090                1095
              Val Thr Leu Ser Ala Tyr Ile Thr Ile Ala Leu Leu Glu Ile Pro
                  1100                1105                1110
              Leu Thr Val Thr His Pro Val Val Arg Asn Ala Leu Phe Cys Leu
                  1115                1120                1125
              Glu Ser Ala Trp Lys Thr Ala Gln Glu Gly Asp His Gly Ser His
                  1130                1135                1140
              Val Tyr Thr Lys Ala Leu Leu Ala Tyr Ala Phe Ala Leu Ala Gly
                  1145                1150                1155
              Asn Gln Asp Lys Arg Lys Glu Val Leu Lys Ser Leu Asn Glu Glu
                  1160                1165                1170
              Ala Val Lys Lys Asp Asn Ser Val His Trp Glu Arg Pro Gln Lys
                  1175                1180                1185
                                                 Page 26

                                         559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Pro Lys Ala Pro Val Gly His Phe Tyr Glu Pro Gln Ala Pro Ser
                  1190                1195                1200
              Ala Glu Val Glu Met Thr Ser Tyr Val Leu Leu Ala Tyr Leu Thr
                  1205                1210                1215
<removed-apn>
              Ala Gln Pro Ala Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Thr Ser Ala Thr Asn
                  1220                1225                1230
              Ile Val Lys Trp Ile Thr Lys Gln Gln Asn Ala Gln Gly Gly Phe
                  1235                1240                1245
              Ser Ser Thr Gln Asp Thr Val Val Ala Leu His Ala Leu Ser Lys
                  1250                1255                1260
              Tyr Gly Ala Ala Thr Phe Thr Arg Thr Gly Lys Ala Ala Gln Val
                  1265                1270                1275
              Thr Ile Gln Ser Ser Gly Thr Phe Ser Ser Lys Phe Gln Val Asp
                  1280                1285                1290
              Asn Asn Asn Arg Leu Leu Leu Gln Gln Val Ser Leu Pro Glu Leu
                  1295                1300                1305
              Pro Gly Glu Tyr Ser Met Lys Val Thr Gly Glu Gly Cys Val Tyr
                  1310                1315                1320
              Leu Gln Thr Ser Leu Lys Tyr Asn Ile Leu Pro Glu Lys Glu Glu
                  1325                1330                1335
              Phe Pro Phe Ala Leu Gly Val Gln Thr Leu Pro Gln Thr Cys Asp
                  1340                1345                1350
              Glu Pro Lys Ala His Thr Ser Phe Gln Ile Ser Leu Ser Val Ser
                  1355                1360                1365
              Tyr Thr Gly Ser Arg Ser Ala Ser Asn Met Ala Ile Val Asp Val
                  1370                1375                1380
                                                Page 27

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Lys Met Val Ser Gly Phe Ile Pro Leu Lys Pro Thr Val Lys Met
                  1385                1390                1395
              Leu Glu Arg Ser Asn His Val Ser Arg Thr Glu Val Ser Ser Asn
                  1400                1405                1410
<removed-apn>
              His Val Leu Ile Tyr Leu Asp Lys Val Ser Asn Gln Thr Leu Ser
                  1415                1420                1425
              Leu Phe Phe Thr Val Leu Gln Asp Val Pro Val Arg Asp Leu Lys
                  1430                1435                1440
              Pro Ala Ile Val Lys Val Tyr Asp Tyr Tyr Glu Thr Asp Glu Phe
                  1445                1450                1455
              Ala Ile Ala Glu Tyr Asn Ala Pro Cys Ser Lys Asp Leu Gly Asn
                  1460                1465                1470
              Ala Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Gly Ala Ser His His His
                  1475                1480                1485
              His His His
                  1490
              <210>   5
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 5
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Ser
                          20                  25                  30
                                                   Page 28

                                           559XXCYT    Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   6
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 6
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   7
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 7
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   8
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 29

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 8
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Gln Glu Ala Gly Glu Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   9
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 9
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   10
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 10
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                    Page 30

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              <210>   11
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 11
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   12
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 12
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
                                                   Page 31

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <210>   13
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 13
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Gln Glu Ala Gly Glu Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   14
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 14
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Gln Glu Leu Gly Gln Arg Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   15
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                   Page 32

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 15
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   16
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 16
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   17
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 17
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 33

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   18
              <211>   48
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 18
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   19
              <211>   46
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 19
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Arg Gly Leu Glu Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 34

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <210>   20
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 20
<removed-apn>
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Pro Gly Leu Ala Pro Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   21
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 21
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Pro Glu Gly Ala Lys Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   22
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
                                                   Page 35

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <400> 22
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Glu Gly Gly Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg Gly His
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   23
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 23
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Pro Gly Ser Ser Arg Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   24
              <211>   40
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 24
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Arg Gly Leu Glu Gly Gly Phe Ala Gly Leu Pro Asn Gly Gly Glu
                          20                  25                  30
                                                   Page 36

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   25
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 25
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Glu Ser Glu Gly Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Leu Gly Glu Phe Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Glu Gly Gly Phe Ala Gly Leu Pro Asn Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   26
              <211>   39
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 26
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Lys Glu Gly Val Glu Gly Glu Ile Glu Glu Gly Gly Gly Phe Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gly Val Glu Gly Lys Leu
                      35
              <210> 27
              <211> 47
                                                   Page 37

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 27
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Glu Ser Glu Gly Gly Phe Ala Gly Leu Pro Asn Gly Lys Glu Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   28
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 28
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   29
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 29
                                                    Page 38

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Lys Leu
                      35                  40
<removed-apn>
              <210>   30
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 30
              Leu Glu Pro Ala Gly Ala Ala Arg Gly Glu Ser Glu Ser Glu Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Phe Gly Phe Pro Ile Gly Glu Arg Glu Ser Thr Gly Gly Asp Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Leu Pro Ile Gly Glu Asn Glu Ala Gly Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   31
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 31
              Leu Glu Thr Glu Gly Arg Gly Glu Arg Glu Ala Gln Gly Glu Phe Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Val Glu Gly Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Gly Pro Glu Lys Glu Thr Gly
                          20                  25                  30
                                                    Page 39

                                           559XXCYT     Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Gly Glu Arg Glu Ala Gln Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   32
              <211>   42
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 32
              Leu Glu Ala Arg Gly Leu Glu Gly Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Tyr Pro Gly Ser Ser Arg Gly Gly Phe Lys Glu Gly Val Glu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Pro Ala Gly Ala Ala Arg Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   33
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 33
              Leu Glu Pro Gly Leu Ala Pro Gly Gly Glu Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Glu Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Gly Gly Phe Lys Glu Gly Val Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Glu Pro Glu Ser Ser Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   34
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 40

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 34
              Leu Glu Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser Thr Ala Gln Glu Ala Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Pro Val Ser Gln Glu Leu Gly Gln Arg Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   35
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 35
              Leu Glu Ala Gln Glu Ala Gly Glu Gly Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Pro Val Ser Gln Glu Leu Gly Gln Arg Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Pro Thr Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   36
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 36
              Leu Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 41

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              <210>   37
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 37
              Leu Glu Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Arg Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   38
              <211>   43
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 38
              Leu Glu Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Thr Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
                                                   Page 42

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   39
              <211>   43
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 39
              Leu Glu Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Thr Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   40
              <211>   43
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 40
              Leu Glu Leu Gln Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210> 41
              <211> 44
                                                   Page 43

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 41
              Leu Glu Glu Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Gly Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Pro Ala Gly Ala Ala Arg Gly Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Pro Thr Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser Lys Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   42
              <211>   46
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 42
              Leu Glu Pro Glu Ser Ser Gly Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Glu Gly Thr Gly Gly Glu Arg Gly Val Leu Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   43
              <211>   45
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 43
                                                   Page 44

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Leu Glu Gly Gly Gly Ser Leu Leu Gly Glu Pro Glu Pro Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Glu Ala Gln Gly Gly Val Glu Gly Val Glu Leu Gly Gly Phe Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gly Val Glu Gly Glu Gln Glu Gly Arg Gly Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              <210>   44
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 44
              Leu Glu Ser Gln Glu Leu Gly Gln Arg Glu Ser Glu Ser Glu Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Gly Phe Lys Glu Gly Val Glu Gly Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Gly Phe Phe Gly Phe Pro Ile Gly Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   45
              <211>   50
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 45
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 45

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Thr Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
<removed-apn>
              <210>   46
              <211>   50
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 46
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Thr Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
              <210>   47
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 47
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 46

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
<removed-apn>
              <210> 48
              <400> 48
              000
              <210> 49
              <400> 49
              000
              <210>   50
              <211>   50
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 50
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Thr Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
              <210> 51
              <211> 50
                                                  Page 47

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 51
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
              <210>   52
              <211>   50
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 52
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Val Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
              <210> 53
              <211> 50
                                                   Page 48

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 53
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu
                  50
              <210>   54
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 54
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ile Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210> 55
              <211> 49
                                                   Page 49

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 55
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   56
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 56
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   57
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                   Page 50

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 57
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   58
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 58
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Ile Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   59
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 51

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 59
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ser Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   60
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 60
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   61
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 52

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 61
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Val Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   62
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 62
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   63
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 63
                                                  Page 53

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Thr Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              <210>   64
              <211>   48
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 64
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Thr Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Val Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   65
              <211>   49
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 65
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 54

                                           559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Gly Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu
              <210>   66
              <211>   48
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 66
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ser Glu Asp Leu Val Val Gln Ile Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Glu Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Thr Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   67
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 67
              Asn Ile Thr Glu Gly Glu Ala Arg Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   68
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 68
              Thr Ala Ser Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Thr Ile
              1               5                   10
              <210> 69
              <211> 11
                                                  Page 55

                                            559XXCYT    Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Homo sapiens
              <400> 69
              Thr Phe Lys Glu Glu Glu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val
              1               5                   10
              <210>   70
              <211>   9
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 70
              Val Asp Ile Pro Glu Asn Phe Phe Gly
              1               5
              <210>   71
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 71
              Ala Arg Gly Ser Val
              1               5
              <210>   72
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 72
              Ile Leu Thr Val Lys Pro Ile Phe Glu Val
              1               5                   10
              <210>   73
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 73
              Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Gly Ala Ser His His His His His
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                    Page 56

                                            559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              His
              <210>   74
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    6xHis tag
              <400> 74
              His His His His His His
              1               5
              <210>   75
              <211>   47
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 75
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Glu Gly Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   76
              <211>   47
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 76
              Leu Glu Gln Tyr Glu Met His Gly Pro Glu Gly Leu Arg Val Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 57

                                          559XXCYT   Seq Listing
<removed-date>
              Glu Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Ser Phe Tyr Glu Ser Asp Val Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly His Ala Arg Leu Val His Val Glu Glu Pro His Thr Lys Leu
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
                                                  Page 58

