                              HEMOGLOBIN COMPOSITIONS
                                           ABSTRACT
The invention provides compositions containing hemoglobin, particularly PEGylated
hemoglobin. The PEGylated hemoglobin molecule is capable of transferring oxygen or carbon
monoxide bound thereto to a tissue with which it is in proximity. Exemplary PEGylated
hemoglobin formulations of the invention are virally inactivated. Various compositions of the
invention include deoxygenated hemoglobin, which may be conjugated with one or more water
soluble polymer. PEGylated hemoglobin includes those species in which the iron atom of the
hemoglobin molecule is not bound to oxygen or any other species, and hemoglobin molecules in
which a species other than oxygen, e.g., carbon monoxide, is bound to the iron atom. The
compositions of the invention are formulated as hypo-, iso- or hypertonic solutions of the
PEGylated hemoglobin. The compositions are of use to treat and/or ameliorate disease, injury
and insult by providing for the oxygenation of tissues and/organs.

                                              1
                                     AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                        Prolong Pharmaceuticals, LLC
 ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:              Hemoglobin Compositions
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:

                                               2
                            HEMOGLOBIN COMPOSITIONS
                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application
No <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2015238812,
which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2010258752, which is the
national phase application of International Patent Application No PCT/US2010/038046,
which claims priority from US Provisional Application No 61/185,547 filed 9 June 2009,
the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
purposes.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The present invention resides in the field of blood substitutes and resuscitation
fluids, including polymer-modified protein, e.g., hemoglobin, formulations capable
delivering oxygen or carbon monoxide to tissues.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     Trauma is one of the leading causes of death in the United States. The primary
reason for the high mortality rate is the inability to maintain tissue oxygenation of the
patient between the time of injury and time of surgery at a medical facility. The lack of
oxygenation results in tissue damage, organ failure and death. Therefore, a major focus
in treating traumatic shock is administering therapeutics providing as much oxygen as
possible to internal tissues and organs of the patients.
[0004]     An obvious approach to maintain oxygenation is blood transfusion. However,
there are significant practical problems using blood in point of care treatment which
make the routine use of stored human blood for use outside the medical facility
impractical on a wide spread basis. Standard approaches to treat trauma primarily
involve maintenance of intravascular circulating volume through administration of either
isotonic, hypertonic, or hyperoncotic solutions. These treatments cannot uniformly
increase oxygenation of internal tissues and organs enough to effectively prevent
ischemia and organ failure.

                                                3
[0005]     As a consequence there is a major effort to develop hemoglobin based oxygen
carriers (HBOCs) which are capable of restoring oxygen carrying capacity of trauma
patients. HBOCs have a number of advantages over the use stored human blood,
including a decreased chance of disease transmission, no immune reactivity, lack of a
need for typing, and most importantly improved availability with decreased storage
demands. A number of groups have developed HBOCs and several companies have
conducted clinical trials to develop their hemoglobin based products as blood substitutes.
Hemoglobin (HGB) isolated from human or animal blood, or a synthetically produced
oxygen carrier, such as perfluorocarbon, are two types of blood substitutes that have been
in clinical trials. Other red blood cell substitutes, , have also been developed and
characterized for use in patients. (See, for example, Red Blood Cell Substitutes, 1998,
(Eds.) A. S. Rudolph, R. Rabinovici, and G. Z. Feuerstein, Dekker, New York, N.Y.).
Such red blood cell substitutes may be used in conjunction with standard medical
therapies, such as transfused blood or blood products. As a specific example, Enzon, Inc.
(Piscataway, N.J.), has developed a polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified bovine
hemoglobin, abbreviated PEG-HGB. PEG-HGB is produced by a process in which
strands of PEG are crosslinked to the surfaces of HGB molecules, for example, as
disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,386,014 and 5,234,903 to Nho et al.). Other specific
examples include Hemopure TM and Oxyglobin (Biopure, Cambridge, Mass.). However
none of these products have been established to produce significant increases in tissue
oxygenation and none have received FDA approval, either because they are ineffective or
produce significant toxicity.
[0006]     Lack of suitable HBOCs has greatly hindered basic research into the physiology
of tissue oxygenation and our understanding of the critical mechanisms involved in shock
and its ensuing tissue damage. With regards to the HBOCs that have undergone clinical
testing and produced significant toxicity, scarce information is available on the cause of
these toxicities.
[0007]     Thus, the methods for treating trauma induced hemorrhage are presently
insufficient. While blood transfusion can restore oxygen to tissue and replenish lost
circulating volume, use of blood as a means to treat hemorrhaging outside of medical

                                               4
facilities has significant practical problems. First of all there are generally limited
quantities of blood available and for each person treated typing is necessary to prevent
killing the patient through an immune reaction. However the most important problem in
using blood to treat trauma patients outside of medical facilities is the storage and
packaging constraints inherent in using this tissue. Thus, blood transfusions are not
normally employed in point of care treatment of trauma patients.
[0008]     In fact, the standard approaches to treat trauma primarily involve maintenance
of intravascular circulating volume through administration of either isotonic, hypertonic,
or hyperoncotic solutions. These approaches are intended to provide short term
replenishment of circulatory volume and can also increase blood flow and hence oxygen
delivery to tissues. However, when hemorrhage is severe, these treatments cannot
uniformly increase oxygenation of internal tissues and organs enough to effectively
prevent ischemia and organ failure. As a consequence, we have a high death rate from
those individuals subject to severe trauma.
[0009]     For years attempts have been made to develop hemoglobin based oxygen
carriers (HBOCs) which are capable of providing oxygen to trauma patients. HBOCs
have a number of advantages over the use stored human blood without many of the
problems associated with using blood to treat trauma. These advantages include a
decreased chance of disease transmission, no immune reactivity, lack of a need for
typing, and most importantly improved availability with decreased storage demands.
Ideally HBOCs should be able to bind oxygen and release it to needed tissues. It should
be in a ready to use solution that is in a form that is stable for months under most
environmental conditions especially those commonly encountered in point of care
conditions in which trauma patients need treatment.
[0010]     Over the years a number of attempts have been made to develop HBOCs as
oxygen therapeutics using either native or recombinant human hemoglobin, modified
forms of human hemoglobin or modified forms of hemoglobin from other species.
Unmodified hemoglobin can be used as an oxygen therapeutic however it binds NOx and
causes severe vasoconstriction and hypertension. As a consequence of its molecular
weight, hemoglobin can cause significant toxicities, especially to the kidney where it

                                                5
clogs the glomerular apparatus. As a consequence, most hemoglobin's that have been
tested in humans are modified to prolong their half life and reduce their toxicity.
[0011]     The present invention provides novel oxygen and carbon monoxide carrying
and delivering molecules that can serve as blood substitutes and/or have therapeutic
activity, and processes for the preparation of these molecules.
[0012]     The present invention further provides stabilized and virally inactivated
hemoglobin and hemoglobin conjugates with water-soluble polymers useful as a
therapeutic agents in transfusion medicine, the viral inactivation rendering the native
hemoglobin and resulting hemoglobin formulations essentially free of transmissible
infection agents. The conjugates are capable of delivering oxygen or carbon monoxide
bound to the hemoglobin to tissues.
[0013]     Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or
steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
integers or steps.
[0014]     Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
of this specification.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]     Amongst its many embodiments, the present invention provides a PEG
hemoglobin ("PEG-Hb") molecule, which can both carry and diffuse oxygen or carbon
monoxide (CO) in the mammalian vasculature and into tissues in contact with the
vasculature and/or in contact with the hemoglobin.      The compositions of the invention
include water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin. The composition
includes a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction, which comprises a group of functional,

                                               6
native hemoglobin molecules. Each member of this group of hemoglobin molecules is in
a deoxygenated state, is substantially free of chemical cross-linking agents and, in
exemplary embodiments, has a P50 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg. The
composition also includes a water-soluble stabilizer fraction. The stabilizer fraction aids
in maintaining the group of hemoglobin molecules in a deoxygenated state. In various
embodiments, the stabilizer fraction includes a stabilizing agent. Exemplary stabilizing
agents have a structural element that is more reactive with oxygen (or reactive oxygen
species (ROS)) than are the deoxygenated hemoglobin molecules. Optionally included in
the composition is an aqueous diluent fraction. The diluent fraction includes a
pharmaceutically acceptable diluent in which the hemoglobin fraction and the stabilizer
fraction are soluble. In exemplary embodiments, the composition comprises less than
10% methemoglobin. In various embodiments, the compound is virally inactivated,
rendering the composition essentially free of viral activity.
[0016]    In exemplary embodiments, the invention provides a hemoglobin conjugate
capable of transferring oxygen or carbon monoxide from the hemoglobin molecule to
tissues in vivo (e.g., to tissues). The composition includes a covalent conjugate between
a functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin molecule and at least one water-soluble
polymer, e.g., poly(ethylene glycol), moiety. Hemoglobin is conjugated with a water
soluble polymer, e.g., PEGylated, because this modification prolongs the half-life of
natural hemoglobin. This overcomes a major problem of short in vivo half-life of native
hemoglobin itself, and of some of the previously developed HBOCs. Furthermore, by
prolonging the half-life of hemoglobin, through the attachment of such polymers, the
physical size of the molecule is increased. In exemplary embodiments, the conjugation
leads to the formation of fewer breakdown products, reducing the chance of kidney
toxicity found with native hemoglobin as well as with other, less stable HBOCs.
PEGylation reduces immune recognition of hemoglobin. Thus, hemoglobin from non
human species can be utilized in the compositions and methods of the invention. In an
exemplary embodiment, the hemoglobin is bovine hemoglobin. In exemplary
embodiments, the composition is a virally inactivated hemoglobin conjugate
composition.

                                                7
[0017]    In various embodiments, the composition includes a water-soluble hemoglobin
fraction comprising a group of hemoglobin molecules. The group of hemoglobin
molecules is deoxygenated and is covalently conjugated to at least one water-soluble
polymer, e.g., poly(ethylene glycol), moiety. Exemplary water-soluble polymer
conjugates are formed through covalently binding the water-soluble polymer to the
polypeptide through an amine moiety of an amino acid residue, though it is within the
scope of the present invention to form the conjugate through any hemoglobin amino acid
residue. The hemoglobin conjugate in the hemoglobin fraction is substantially free of
chemical cross-linking agents; and has a P5 0 of from about 9 mm Hg to about 12 mm Hg.
Exemplary compositions also include a water-soluble stabilizer fraction rendering the
group of hemoglobin molecules oxidation resistant. The stabilizer fraction includes a
stabilizing agent. Exemplary stabilizing agents include a structural element that prevents
the reoxygenation of the deoxygenated hemoglobin. In various embodiments, the
stabilizing agent is more reactive with oxygen than the members of the group of
hemoglobin molecules. In various embodiments, that composition also includes a diluent
fraction. Exemplary diluent fractions are pharmaceutically acceptable diluent in which
the hemoglobin fraction is soluble. In an exemplary embodiment, the composition is
essentially free of viral activity, and includes less than about 10% methemoglobin.
[0018]    In various embodiments, the invention provides a virally inactivated
hemoglobin composition comprising water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native
hemoglobin. The composition is prepared by a method comprising, submitting a solution
of deoxygenated hemoglobin and a stabilizing agent to a thermal viral inactivation
process. The thermal viral inactivation process includes exposing the solution to a
temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate essentially all viral activity in the solution.
The elevated temperature treatment is for a time sufficient to achieve the inactivation of
essentially all viral activity in the solution. The stabilizing agent includes a structural
element that prevents the reoxygenation of the deoxygenated hemoglobin. In an
exemplary embodiment, this structural element is selected such that it is more reactive
with oxygen or ROS than it is with the deoxygenated hemoglobin. The stabilizing agent
serves the function of minimizing oxygen binding by the deoxygenated hemoglobin. In
various embodiments, the solution includes an amount of the stabilizing agent sufficient

                                              8
to prevent formation of more than about 10% methemoglobin during the thermal viral
deactivation process.
[0019]     In exemplary embodiments, the invention provides a hemoglobin composition
comprising water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin. This
composition includes less than 10% methemoglobin. When the composition is virally
inactivated, it is optionally prepared by a method comprising heating a precursor
hemoglobin solution to about 60 0C for up to about 12 hours (e.g., from about 1 to about
4 hours). The precursor solution includes a stabilizing agent. The stabilizing agent
includes a structural element that prevents the reoxygenation of the deoxygenated
hemoglobin. In an exemplary embodiment, this structural element is selected such that it
is more reactive with oxygen than it is with the deoxygenated hemoglobin. The
stabilizing agent serves the function of minimizing oxygen binding by the deoxygenated
hemoglobin.
[0020]     In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a method of preparing
hemoglobin composition of the invention. The composition includes water-soluble,
functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin. In an exemplary embodiment, the
composition includes a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of
functional, native hemoglobin molecules wherein each member of the group of
hemoglobin molecules is in a deoxygenated state; is substantially free of chemical cross
linking agents; and has a P50 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg. In various
embodiments, the composition includes a water-soluble stabilizer fraction, which
includes a stabilizing agent. The stabilizing agent includes a structural element that
prevents the reoxygenation of the deoxygenated hemoglobin. In an exemplary
embodiment, this structural element is selected such that it is more reactive with oxygen
than it is with the deoxygenated hemoglobin. The stabilizing agent serves the function of
minimizing oxygen binding by the deoxygenated hemoglobin, thereby maintaining the
hemoglobin molecules in a deoxygenated state. In exemplary embodiment, the
composition includes a diluent fraction. In various embodiments, the diluent fraction
includes a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent in which the hemoglobin fraction is
soluble. Various compositions are essentially free of viral activity, and comprise less

                                                9
than 10% methemoglobin. In an exemplary embodiment, the composition is virally
inactivated. An exemplary method for preparing the virally inactivated composition
includes submitting a mixture including the hemoglobin fraction and the stabilizer
fraction to a thermal viral inactivation process. An exemplary thermal viral inactivation
process includes exposing the mixture to a temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate
essentially all viral activity in the mixture. The period of time during which the mixture
is at the elevated temperature is sufficient to achieve said inactivation of essentially all
viral activity in said mixture.
[0021]     In each of the compositions set forth above, the hemoglobin is optionally re
oxygenated. In one embodiment, the hemoglobin is reoxygenated following viral
inactivation. Alternatively, the hemoglobin is bound to carbon monoxide. Binding to
carbon monoxide can occur at essentially any point during preparation of the composition
or after the composition is prepared. In an exemplary embodiment, in the deoxygenated
composition, the Fe(II) of the hemoglobin is bound to carbon monoxide
[0022]     The present invention also provides methods of treating trauma, shock, ischemia
and other illness that is amendable to amelioration by enhancing the oxygen or carbon
monoxice content of tissues or organs. Compositions of the invention rapidly restore
tissue oxygenation and fully repay oxygen debt in animal models of severe traumatic
shock in which at least 50% of subjects normally die from hemorrhagic shock. Utilizing
an exemplary formulation, a single unit of a composition of the invention repays the
oxygen debt to all the major organs, opens the microvasculature and restores Mean
Arterial Pressure. Various compositions of the invention are more effective and quicker
in reversing oxygen debt than packed red blood cells. In an exemplary embodiment, a
formulation of the invention repays at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95% or at least
100% of oxygen debt in a subject in from about 60 minutes to about 160 minutes
following administration of the formulation to the subject. Alternatively, the
compositions of the invention increase the carbon monoxide concentration in a tissue. In
an exemplary embodiment, the formulation paying back oxygen debt, or enhancing tissue
carbon monoxide content, includes a PEGylated hemoglobin conjugate of the invention.

                                               10
[0023]     Thus, in an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a method of
delivering oxygen or carbon monoxide to a member selected from tissues and organs of a
subject in need of such delivering. In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes
administering to the subject an amount of a composition of any of the invention sufficient
to accomplish the delivery of oxygen or carbon monoxide to one or more tissue and/or
organ.
[0024]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of reversing oxygen
debt in a member selected from tissues and organs of a subject suffering from
hemorrhagic shock. In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to
the subject an amount of a composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the
oxygen debt. A similar method is provided for increasing the carbon monoxide content
of a tissue, whether in response to a loss in carbon monoxide content due to disease,
injury, etc., or as a means to gain therapeutic benefits from increasing carbon monoxide
content in the tissue over the normal levels found in the tissue in a healthy or disease
state.
[0025]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of inducing
angiogenesis in the tissues of a subject by administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of the invention effective to induce angiogenesis. In exemplary
embodiments, angiogenesis is induced in tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. In
further exemplary embodiments, the tissues or organs in which angiogenesis is induced
are tissues or organs of a subject suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary
embodiment, the method includes administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the oxygen deficiency.
[0026]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of increasing blood
flow to tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. The method consists of administering
to the subject an amount of a composition of the invention effective to increase blood
flow to the tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary embodiment, the
tissue or organ is a tissue or an organ of a subject suffering from poor blood flow. In an
exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the poor blood flow.

                                               11
[0027]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of decreasing
neurological damage and/or infarcted tissue in tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency.
In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to a subject and amount
of a composition of the invention sufficient to decrease neurological damage and/or
infract in the tissue suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary embodiment, the
method includes administering to the subject an amount of a composition of any of the
invention sufficient to reverse the amount of infracted and or neurologically damaged
tissue.
[0028]     In each of the embodiments set forth above, the hemoglobin in the formulation
can be bound to oxygen, carbon monoxide or to neither. Moreover, the formulations in
which the hemoglobin conjugate is incorporated can be hypotonic, isotonic or hypertonic
relevant to the tonicity of the subjects blood.
[0029]     Other embodiments and advantages of the invention are apparent from the
detailed description that follows.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1 is a flow chart of production of an exemplary PEG-Hb.
FIG. 2 is a graphic comparison of PEG-Hb/HS and other treatments to reverse oxygen
debt in an animal model of traumatic shock.
FIG. 3 shows arterial blood pressure (A) and laser-Doppler flux, measured over lateral
parietal cortex and expressed as a percent of baseline (B), during 2 h of middle cerebral
artery occlusion (MCAO) and the first 30 min of reperfusion in groups of rats undergoing
either no transfusion or transfusion with 10 ml/kg of PEG-albumin or PEG-COHb at 20
min of MCAO (mean ± SE; n = 10 per group).
FIG. 4 shows neurologic deficit score on a 0-4 scale (0 = no deficit) at 1 or 24 h of
reperfusion after 2 h of MCAO in groups with no transfusion or transfusion of PEG
albumin or PEG-COHb at 20 min of MCAO (mean ± SE; n = 10). * P < 0.05 between
PEG-COHb groups versus no transfusion and PEG-albumin groups.

                                                12
FIG. 5 is a graphic display of infarct volume in each of the 7 coronal sections for cerebral
cortex (A) and striatum (B), and total infarct volume summed over the 7 sections for
cerebral cortex and striatum (C). Values are expressed as a percent of the contralateral
total structure (means  ± SE; n = 10). * P < 0.05 between PEG-COHb group versus no
transfusion and PEG-albumin groups.
FIG. 6 shows that the amount of viable brain tissue (stained dark) is greater in rats
transfused with PEG-COHb (right image) of the invention, than in a control rat not
infused with PEG-COHb of the invention (left image).
FIG. 7 shows tability of PEG-Hb at 370 C.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Introduction
[0030]     There exists a need for an oxygen transfer agent to treat or prevent hypoxia
resulting from disease, injury and insult, for example, blood loss (e.g,, from acute
hemorrhage or during surgical operations), resulting from anemia (e.g., pernicious
anemia or sickle cell anemia), or resulting from shock (e.g, volume deficiency shock,
anaphylactic shock, septic shock or allergic shock). The use of whole blood or blood
fractions in these capacities is fraught with disadvantages. For example, the use of whole
blood often is accompanied by the risk of transmission of any number of viruses,
including hepatitis-producing viruses and AIDS-producing viruses, which can complicate
patient recovery or result in patient fatalities. Additionally, the use of whole blood
requires blood-typing and cross-matching to avoid immunohematological problems and
inter donor incompatibility.
[0031]     There also exists a need for therapeutic agents capable of delivering oxygen or
carbon monoxide to tissues in a subject. The therapeutic agent is of use to treat, inter
alia, conditions associated with blood loss, and ischemia.
[0032]     The present invention meets both these needs by the provision of PEG
hemoglobin formulations in which the hemoglobin is bound to oxygen, bound to carbon
monoxide or is bound to neither. The hemoglobin conjugate is formulated in a medium

                                               13
that is hypotonic, isotonic or hypertonic with respect to the tonicity of the blood of the
subject to which the formulation is administered.
[0033]    Human hemoglobin, as an oxygen delivery agent, a CO delivery agent and/or a
blood-substitute, possesses osmotic activity and the ability to transport and transfer
oxygen, but it has the disadvantage of rapid elimination from circulation by the renal
route and through vascular walls, resulting in organ damage and a very short, and
therefore, unsatisfactory half-life. Further, human hemoglobin is also frequently
contaminated with toxic levels of endotoxins, bacteria and/or viruses.
[0034]    Non-human hemoglobin suffers from the same deficiencies as human
hemoglobin. In addition, hemoglobin from non-human sources has the potential to cause
an immune system response in the recipient.
[0035]    The present invention provides a hemoglobin formulation and methods of using
this formulation to treat and ameliorate hypoxia due to disease, injury and insult, or to
deliver CO to tissues in these states. Exemplary formulation are virally inactivated and in
certain embodiments the hemoglobin is conjugated with a water-soluble polymer, e.g.,
PEGylated. Exemplary hemoglobin formulations of the invention include hemoglobin
molecules with a P50 that is different than that of naturally occurring human hemoglobin.
The hemoglobin formulations of the invention reverse oxygen debt in trauma, as
demonstrated in an animal model of severe trauma, indicating it has superior oxygen
carrying capacity in vivo compared to other products. An exemplary formulation of the
invention is able to rapidly restore tissue oxygenation and fully repay oxygen debt in
trauma, as demonstrated in an animal model of severe traumatic shock in which at least
50% of subjects normally die from hemorrhagic shock. A single unit of an exemplary
formulation of the invention repays the oxygen debt to all the major organs, opens the
microvasculature and restores Mean Arterial Pressure. Exemplary formulations also
provide superior stability and storage capacity over any other HBOC. An exemplary
formulation is sufficiently stable to remain fully efficacious in an animal model after
storage for at least 4 weeks at 45 0C (113 OF), an extreme environmental condition which
validates that exemplary formulations of the invention are useful in point of care
emergency situations.

                                               14
[0036]    Various formulations of the invention for clinical use include PEGylated
hemoglobin, e.g., bovine hemoglobin, and isotonic or hypertonic saline (PEG-Hb/HS)
and PEGylated hemoglobin in the CO form (PEG-Hb-CO) with or without high salt
concentrations (i.e., isotonic or hypertonic). Exemplary formulations according to these
embodiments increase the oxygen carrying capacity of blood via its hemoglobin content
and enhance the delivery of oxygen to tissues by dilating the vasculature ( through its
hypertonic-oncotic actions or effect of CO) and by acting as an oxygen transfer agent
between the red blood cell and the tissues.    Exemplary formulations of the invention are
also of use to treat sickle cell anemia, stroke or peripheral ischemia due to diabetes. An
exemplary formulation includes PEG-Hb-CO, and is highly stable and has desirable
pharmacological properties. In various embodiments, the PEG-Hb-CO has vasodilatory
properties. In various embodiments, the PEG-Hb-CO has antioxidant properties. In
various embodiments, the PEG-Hb formulations of the invention do not give rise to
reactive oxygen species in a quantity sufficient to cause tissue damage. This formulation
can be used to treat any of the diseases, insults or injuries discussed herein. In an
exemplary embodiment, the formulation is used to treat ischemia. Exemplary types of
ischemia treatable by this composition include cerebral ischemia and diabetic ischemia.
Accordingly, the invention provides methods to treat, ameliorate and prevent the
downstream damage from ischemic events. An exemplary type of ischemia treatable by
compositions of the invention is peripheral ischemia, for example, peripheral diabetic
ischemia.
Definitions
[0037]    "CO" refers to carbon monoxide.
[0038]    "HS" refers to high salt, a hypertonic formulation.
[0039]     "Sanguinate TM as used herein refers to a PEG-HbCO composition of the
invention.
[0040]    The terms "blood substitute," "resuscitation fluid," "PEG-Hb," PEG-CO-Hb,"
"hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier" (HBOC) and "PEG-Hb/HS" refer to the PEGylated
Hb compositions of the invention and formulations incorporating these compositions.

                                              15
The terms also carry with them the disclosure of an exemplary use of the composition
and its formulation. For example, a "blood substitute" is of use to replace blood in the
context of, e.g., trauma, stroke, ischemia/reperfusion injury, surgery, anemia or other
injuries, insults and diseases in which a blood transfusion might be indicated. These
terms, as used herein, also refer to Hb formulations capable of delivering oxygen or
carbon monoxide to a tissue. These formulations are of use in injuries, insults and
diseases characterized by the subject having adequate blood volume, yet the blood has
inadequate ability to carry and/or deliver oxygen or carbon monoxide to tissues. The
PEG-hemoglobin derivatives are formulated in hypotonic, isotonic or hypertonic salt
solutions. Thus, exemplary deoxygenated PEG-Hb composition in which the Fe(HJ) is
unbound or is bound to CO can be formulated in isotonic or hypertonic solution.
Similarly, exemplary oxygenated PEG-Hb can be formulated in isotonic or hypertonic
carriers.
[0041]     The term "amino acid" refers to naturally occurring, e.g., cysteine, and synthetic
amino acids, as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a
manner similar to the naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids
are those encoded by the genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later
modified, e.g., hydroxyproline, y-carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid
analogs refers to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally
occurring amino acid, i.e., an a carbon that is bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an
amino group, and an R group, e.g., homoserine, norleucine, methionine sulfoxide,
methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified R groups (e.g., norleucine) or
modified peptide backbones, but retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally
occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a
structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an amino acid, but that
function in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid.
[0042]     "Peptide" and "polypeptide" refer to a polymer in which the monomers are
amino acids and are joined together through amide bonds, alternatively referred to as a
polypeptide. Additionally, unnatural amino acids, for example, j-alanine, phenylglycine
and homoarginine are also included. Amino acids that are not gene-encoded may also be

                                              16
used in the present invention. Furthermore, amino acids that have been modified to
include reactive groups, glycosylation sites, polymers, therapeutic moieties, biomolecules
and the like may also be used in the invention. All of the amino acids used in the present
invention may be either the D - or L -isomer. The L -isomer is generally preferred. In
addition, other peptidomimetics are also useful in the present invention. As used herein,
"peptide" refers to both glycosylated and unglycosylated peptides. Also included are
peptides that are incompletely glycosylated by a system that expresses the peptide. For a
general review, see, Spatola, A. F., in CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY OF AMINO ACIDS,
PEPTIDES AND PROTEINS,     B. Weinstein, eds., Marcel Dekker, New York, p. 267 (1983).
An exemplary peptide is hemoglobin.
[0043]     The term "peptide conjugate," and "hemoglobin conjugate" refer to species of
the invention in which a hemoglobin polypeptide is conjugated with a water-soluble
polymer, e.g., poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), as set forth herein.
[0044]     "Hemoglobin," as used herein refers to an oxygen-binding (or CO-binding),
active polypeptide that is not chemically cross-linked through treatment with chemical
cross-linking agents, e.g., dialdehydes, etc. An exemplary hemoglobin is the native
protein with no modifications other than the conjugation of one or more PEG (e.g., m
PEG) moieties. As used herein, "substantially free of chemical cross-linking agents,"
refers to hemoglobin molecules that are not purposely cross-linked with chemical cross
linking agents. These hemoglobin preparations include less than 5%, less than 3% or less
than 1% cross-linked hemoglobin.
[0045]     The term "water-soluble" refers to moieties that have some detectable degree of
solubility in water. Methods to detect and/or quantify water solubility are well known in
the art. Exemplary water-soluble polymers include peptides, saccharides, poly(ethers),
poly(amines), poly(carboxylic acids) and the like. Peptides can have mixed sequences of
be composed of a single amino acid, e.g., poly(lysine). An exemplary polysaccharide is
poly(sialic acid). An exemplary poly(ether) is poly(ethylene glycol). Poly(ethylene
imine) is an exemplary polyamine, and poly(acrylic) acid is a representative
poly(carboxylic acid).   The term "water soluble" as in a "water-soluble polymer" is a
polymer that is soluble in water at room temperature. Typically, a solution of a water-

                                                17
soluble polymer will transmit at least about 75%, more preferably at least about 95% of
light, transmitted by the same solution after filtering. On a weight basis, a water-soluble
polymer or segment thereof will preferably be at least about 35% (by weight) soluble in
water, more preferably at least about 50% (by weight) soluble in water, still more
preferably about 70% (by weight) soluble in water, and still more preferably about 85%
(by weight) soluble in water. It is most preferred, however, that the water-soluble
polymer or segment is about 95% (by weight) soluble in water or completely soluble in
water.
[0046]     As used herein, the term "water-soluble polymer" includes those water-soluble
polymers that are biocompatible and nonimmunogenic and specifically excludes any
water-soluble polymer segments that are not biocompatible and nonimmunogenic. With
respect to biocompatibility, a substance is considered biocompatible if the beneficial
effects associated with use of the substance alone or with another substance (e.g., active
agent) in connection with living tissues (e.g., administration to a patient) outweighs any
deleterious effects as evaluated by a clinician, e.g., a physician. With respect to non
immunogenicity, a substance is considered nonimmunogenic if the intended use of the
substance in vivo does not produce an undesired immune response (e.g., the formation of
antibodies) or, if an immune response is produced, that such a response is not deemed
clinically significant or important as evaluated by a clinician. It is particularly preferred
that the water-soluble polymer segments described herein as well as conjugates are
biocompatible and nonimmunogenic.
[0047]     The polymer backbone of the water-soluble polymer can be poly(ethylene
glycol) (i.e., PEG). However, it should be understood that other related polymers are also
suitable for use in the practice of this invention and that the use of the term PEG or
poly(ethylene glycol) is intended to be inclusive and not exclusive in this respect. The
term PEG includes poly(ethylene glycol) in any of its forms, including alkoxy PEG,
difunctional PEG, multiarmed PEG, forked PEG, branched PEG, pendent PEG (i.e., PEG
or related polymers having one or more functional groups pendent to the polymer
backbone), or PEG with degradable linkages therein.

                                              18
[0048]    The polymer backbone can be linear or branched. Branched polymer backbones
are generally known in the art. Typically, a branched polymer has a central branch core
moiety and a group of linear polymer chains linked to the central branch core. PEG is
commonly used in branched forms that can be prepared by addition of ethylene oxide to
various polyols, such as glycerol, pentaerythritol and sorbitol. The central branch moiety
can also be derived from several amino acids, such as lysine. The branched
poly(ethylene glycol) can be represented in general form as R(-PEG-OH)m in which R
represents the core moiety, such as glycerol or pentaerythritol, and m represents the
number of arms. Multi-armed PEG molecules, such as those described in U.S. Pat. No.
5,932,462, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety, can also be used as
the polymer backbone.
[0049]    Many other polymers are also suitable for the invention. Polymer backbones
that are non-peptidic and water-soluble, with from 2 to about 300 termini, are particularly
useful in the invention. Examples of suitable polymers include, but are not limited to,
other poly(alkylene glycols), such as poly(propylene glycol) ("PPG"), copolymers of
ethylene glycol and propylene glycol and the like, poly(oxyethylated polyol),
poly(olefinic alcohol), poly(vinylpyrrolidone), poly(hydroxypropylmethacrylamide),
poly(ax-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, poly(N
acryloylmorpholine), such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,629,384, which is incorporated
by reference herein in its entirety, and copolymers, terpolymers, and mixtures thereof.
Although the molecular weight of each chain of the polymer backbone can vary, it is
typically in the range of from about 100 Da to about 100,000 Da, often from about 6,000
Da to about 80,000 Da.
[0050]    Although the molecular weight of the water-soluble polymer (as well as the
polymeric reagent utilized to form the conjugate) can vary, the molecular weight will
satisfy one or more of the following values: greater than 100 Daltons; greater than 200
Daltons; greater than 400 Daltons; greater than 500 Daltons, greater than 750 Daltons;
greater than 900 Daltons; greater than 1,000 Daltons, greater than 1,400 Daltons; greater
than 1,500 Daltons, greater than 1,900 Daltons; greater than 2,000 Daltons; greater than
2,200 Daltons; greater than 2,500 Daltons; greater than 3,000 Daltons; greater than 4,000

                                               19
Daltons; greater than 4,900 Daltons; greater than 5,000 Daltons; greater than 6,000
Daltons; greater than 7,000 Daltons; greater than 7,500 Daltons, greater than 9,000
Daltons; greater than 10,000 Daltons; greater than 11,000 Daltons; greater than 14,000
Daltons, greater than 15,000 Daltons; greater than 16,000 Daltons; greater than 19,000
Daltons; greater than 20,000 Daltons; greater than 21,000 Daltons; greater than 22,000
Daltons, greater than 25,000 Daltons; and greater than 30,000 Daltons. It is understood
that the maximum limit of molecular weight for any given water-soluble polymer
segment useful herein is about 300,000 Daltons.
[0051]     The molecular weight of the water-soluble polymer (as well as the entire
polymeric reagent used to form the conjugate) can also be expressed as being a value
within a range of molecular weights. Exemplary ranges include: from about 100 Daltons
to about 100,000 Daltons; from about 500 Daltons to about 80,000 Daltons; from about
1,000 Daltons to about 60,000 Daltons; from about 2,000 Daltons to about 50,000
Daltons; and from about 5,000 Daltons to about 40,000 Daltons.
[0052]     Exemplary molecular weights for any given water-soluble polymer (as well as
the entire polymeric reagent) within a polymeric reagent include about 100 Daltons,
about 200 Daltons, about 300 Daltons, about 400 Daltons, about 500 Daltons, about 600
Daltons, about 700 Daltons, about 750 Daltons, about 800 Daltons, about 900 Daltons,
about 1,000 Daltons, about 2,000 Daltons, about 2,200 Daltons, about 2,500 Daltons,
about 3,000 Daltons, about 4,000 Daltons, about 4,400 Daltons, about 5,000 Daltons,
about 6,000 Daltons, about 7,000 Daltons, about 7,500 Daltons, about 8,000 Daltons,
about 9,000 Daltons, about 10,000 Daltons, about 11,000 Daltons, about 12,000 Daltons,
about 13,000 Daltons, about 14,000 Daltons, about 15,000 Daltons, about 20,000
Daltons, about 22,500 Daltons, about 25,000 Daltons, about 30,000 Daltons, about
40,000 Daltons, about 50,000 Daltons, about 60,000 Daltons, about 75,000 Daltons, and
about 80,000 Daltons.
[0053]     Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the foregoing discussion
concerning substantially water-soluble polymer is by no means exhaustive and is merely
illustrative, and that all polymeric materials having the qualities described above are
contemplated. As used herein, the term "polymeric reagent" generally refers to an entire

                                               20
molecule, which can comprise a water-soluble polymer and a functional group. The term
"water-soluble polymer" is generally reserved for use in discussing one portion of a larger
molecular structure such as a polymeric reagent, precursor molecule, conjugate, and so
forth.
[0054]     Each portion (e.g., functional group, active agent, water-soluble polymer, and so
forth) of the polymeric reagent and other structures described herein can be directly
attached to each other via a direct covalent bond. More typically, however, each portion
is attached through a spacer moiety comprised of one or more atoms serving to tether
each portion together into a unified whole.
[0055]     Preferred spacer moieties through which the various portions of the polymeric
reagents and other structures described herein include a chain of atoms made of carbon,
nitrogen, oxygen, and/or sulfur atoms. Attached to this chain of atoms, can be one or
more other atoms such as carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, and hydrogen. The chain can
be short and comprise as few as a chain of two to five atoms. Longer chains, for example,
a chain of atoms of ten, fifteen, or more in length are also contemplated. In addition, the
spacer moiety can comprise a ring of atoms that can be saturated, unsaturated, as well as
being aromatic. When present, a spacer moiety preferably comprises a sequence of about
1-20 atoms excluding any branching atoms. Preferably, the atoms making up the spacer
moiety (including any branching atoms) comprise some combination of oxygen, carbon,
nitrogen, sulfur and hydrogen atoms. Spacer moieties can be of any useful format.
[0056]     The term "half-life" or "th", as used herein in the context of administering a
drug to a patient, is defined as the time required for plasma concentration of a drug in a
patient to be reduced by one half.     Further explanation of "half-life" is found in
Pharmaceutical Biotechnology (1997, DFA Crommelin and RD Sindelar, eds., Harwood
Publishers, Amsterdam, pp 101 - 120).       In an exemplary embodiment, the half-life of a
PEG conjugate of the invention is between about 12 and about 22 hours, which is
considerably longer than non-PEGylated hemoglobin.
[0057]     As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any material,
which when combined with the conjugate retains the conjugate's activity and is non
reactive with the subject's immune systems. Examples include, but are not limited to, any

                                                21
of the standard pharmaceutical carriers such as a phosphate buffered saline solution,
water, emulsions such as oil/water emulsion, and various types of wetting agents. Other
carriers may also include sterile solutions, tablets including coated tablets and capsules.
Typically such carriers contain excipients such as starch, milk, sugar, certain types of
clay, gelatin, stearic acid or salts thereof, magnesium or calcium stearate, talc, vegetable
fats or oils, gums, glycols, or other known excipients. Such carriers may also include
flavor and color additives or other ingredients. Compositions comprising such carriers
are formulated by well known conventional methods. Exemplary carriers are hypertonic
sodium chloride and isotonic sodium chloride (e.g., phosphate buffered saline).
Hypertonic and isotonic carriers are of use in formulating deoxygenated PEGylated
hemoglobin of the invention (e.g., carbon monoxide bound iron, and unbound iron) and
PEGylated hemoglobin of the invention in which the iron atom is bound to oxygen.
[0058]     As used herein, "administering," means intravenous, intraperitoneal,
intramuscular, intralesional, or subcutaneous administration. Parenteral administration
includes, e.g., intravenous, intramuscular, intra-arteriole, intradermal, subcutaneous,
intraperitoneal, intraventricular, and intracranial.
[0059]     The term "ameliorating" or "ameliorate" refers to any indicia of success in the
treatment of a pathology or condition, including any objective or subjective parameter
such as abatement, remission or diminishing of symptoms or an improvement in a
patient's physical or mental well-being. Amelioration of symptoms can be based on
objective or subjective parameters; including the results of a physical examination and/or
a psychiatric evaluation.
[0060]     The term "therapy" refers to "treating" or "treatment" of a disease or condition
including providing relief from the symptoms or side-effects of the disease (including
palliative treatment), and relieving the disease (causing regression of the disease). These
terms also refer to the treatment of injury, including hemorrhagic shock, stroke,
ischemia/reperfusion injury, trauma and the like. In various embodiments, these terms
also refer to preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a subject that may be
predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or exhibit symptoms of the disease
(prophylactic treatment), inhibiting the disease (slowing or arresting its development).

                                              22
[0061]     The term "effective amount" or "an amount effective to" or a "therapeutically
effective amount" or any grammatically equivalent term means the amount that, when
administered to a subject for treating a disease, condition or injury, is sufficient to effect
treatment for that disease. In exemplary embodiments, this term refers to any amount of
a conjugate of the invention (or a formulation including a conjugate of the invention)
sufficient to repay at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or
up to about 100% of tissue or organ oxygen debt attributable to disease, insult or injury.
When used in the context of delivery of CO to a tissue, this term refers to an amount
administered sufficient to derive a detectable therapeutic effect from the delivery of CO
to a tissue.
[0062]     Exemplary hemoglobin composition of the invention are referred to as "capable
of transferring a member selected from oxygen and carbon monoxide bound thereto to a
tissue." This phrase refers to a hemoglobin composition having the capability to transfer
oxygen or carbon monoxide bound to the iron atom of the hemoglobin to a tissue in. In
exemplary compositions, the transfer is measureable by alteration in a tissue parameter
(e.g., vasodilation, tissue oxygenation) or by a detectable alteration in a clinically relevant
endpoint (e.g., termination of necrotic process, decreased ischemia/reperfusion injury).
In an exemplary embodiment, the transfer of carbon monoxide or oxygen to a tissue is
measured in terms of the amount of an oxygen debt "repaid" by administration of a
selected volume of a composition of the invention to a subject (or tissue) with an oxygen
debt. In another exemplary embodiment, the amount of oxygen or carbon monoxide
delivered to a tissue is measured in terms of the mass of oxygen or CO transferred to a
pre-selected mass of tissue (e.g., one gram) by administration of a pre-selected dosage of
a composition of the invention. The ability to transfer oxygen or CO to a tissue can also
be measured functionally in vivo, and by comparison with known hemoglobin-based
blood substitutes. In an exemplary embodiment, the hemoglobin is in "contact" or
"operative contact" with the tissue to which it is delivering oxygen or carbon monoxide.
Bu operative contact is meant that the hemoglobin is sufficiently proximate to the tissue
that the oxygen or carbon monoxide is transferred directly, through an intermediate
carrier or through diffusion to the tissue.

                                              23
[0063]    As used herein, "native hemoglobin" refers to hemoglobin that is not
intentionally chemically cross-linked or conjugated to another species. Native
hemoglobin includes hemoglobin molecules in which the iron atom is unbound, is bound
to oxygen or is bound to carbon monoxide. According to the present invention, native
hemoglobin can form the hemoglobin core of the PEG-Hb conjugates of the invention.
[0064]     "Deoxygenated" refers to hemoglobin in which the Fe(II) atom is bound to a
species other than oxygen (e.g., carbon monoxide) or is not bound to oxygen or any other
species.
[0065]    The term "isolated" refers to a material that is substantially or essentially free
from components, which naturally accompany the material, are used to produce the
material or are side or degradation products from producing the material. For peptide
conjugates of the invention, the term "isolated" refers to material that is substantially or
essentially free from components which normally accompany the material in the mixture
used to prepare the peptide conjugate. "Isolated" and "pure" are used interchangeably.
Typically, isolated peptide conjugates of the invention have a level of purity preferably
expressed as a range. The lower end of the range of purity for the peptide conjugates is
about 60%, about 70% or about 80% and the upper end of the range of purity is about
70%, about 80%, about 90% or more than about 90%. The virally heat inactivated
hemoglobin compositions of the invention are generally isolated prior to conjugation with
a water-soluble polymer. In exemplary embodiments, the hemoglobin utilized to make
the conjugate is isolated. In various embodiments, the hemoglobin PEG conjugate is
isolated. In exemplary embodiments, the hemoglobin or PEG hemoglobin conjugate is
isolated with the exception of the presence of a stabilizing agent or other excipients. In
various embodiments, the hemoglobin or PEG hemoglobin conjugate is isolated from
other proteins and particularly proteins selected from hemoglobin dimers or oligomers
and other oxygen carrying protiens
[0066]    When the peptide conjugates are more than about 90% pure, their purities are
also preferably expressed as a range. The lower end of the range of purity is about 90%,
about 92%, about 94%, about 96% or about 98%. The upper end of the range of purity is
about 92%, about 94%, about 96%, about 98% or about 100% purity.           For the purposes

                                                24
of this invention a "pure" conjugate or solution of a pure conjugate can include a
stabilizing agent.
[0067]      Purity is determined by any art-recognized method of analysis (e.g., band
intensity on a silver stained gel, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, HPLC, or a similar
means).
[0068]      The term "reactive" or "activated" when used in conjunction with a particular
functional group, refers to a reactive functional group that reacts readily with an
electrophile or a nucleophile on another molecule. This is in contrast to those groups that
require strong catalysts or highly impractical reaction conditions in order to react (i.e., a
"nonreactive" or "inert" group).
[0069]      The expression, "each member of a group," is used to refer to the members of
one subpopulation in a formulation of the invention having a particular characteristic.
Thus, referring to each member of a group of hemoglobin molecules in a fraction of a
formulation of the invention, does not necessarily imply that every hemoglobin molecule
in the formulation has the recited characteristic, but refers to a group (subpopulation) of
hemoglobin molecules in the formulation having the recited characteristic.
[0070]      The term "stabilizing agent," refers to a species that prevents or retards the
reoxygenation of deoxygenated hemoglobin. An exemplary stabilizing agent is an
amine-containing compound, conveniently, though not exclusively, an amino acid. Any
amine-containing compound can serve as a stabilizing agent in the formulations of the
invention. An additional exemplary stabilizing agent has one or more structural elements
that reacts with oxygen preferentially to the hemoglobin reacting with the oxygen. An
exemplary structural element found on stabilizing agents of the invention is a thiol
moiety. Exemplary sulfhydryl compounds of use as stabilizing agents include, but are
not limited to, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) D,L-cysteine, y-glutamyl-cysteine,
glutathione, 2,3 -dimercapto- 1-propanol, 1,4-butanedithiol, and other biologically
compatible sulfhydryl compounds.        It is generally preferred that the stabilizing agent is
bio-compatible and is non-toxic in the amounts in which it is included in the
compositions and formulations of the invention. In an exemplary embodiment, the PEG
is itself a stabilizing reagent. Thus, in various embodiments, the PEG conjugated to the

                                              25
Hb obviates the need for a separate stabilizing agent or a separate water-soluble
stabilizing fraction. Accordingly, the invention provides formulations equivalent to those
set forth herein including a water soluble stabilizing fraction, which, in fact, do not
include this fraction.
[0071]     As used herein, terms such as "subject," "patient," and "mammal" are used
interchangeably, and are exemplified by a human.
[0072]     As used herein a "nitric oxide donor" or "NO donor" refers to compounds that
donate, release and/or directly or indirectly transfer a nitrogen monoxide species, and/or
stimulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide or endothelium-derived relaxing
factor (EDRF) in vivo and/or elevate endogenous levels of nitric oxide or EDRF in vivo
and/or are oxidized to produce nitric oxide and/or are substrates for nitric oxide synthase
and/or cytochrome P450. "NO donor" also includes compounds that are precursors of L
arginine, inhibitors of the enzyme arginase and nitric oxide mediators.
[0073]     The term "nitric oxide" encompasses uncharged nitric oxide (NO) and charged
nitrogen monoxide species, preferably charged nitrogen monoxide species, such as
nitrosonium ion (NO') and nitroxyl ion (NO-). The reactive form of nitric oxide can be
provided by gaseous nitric oxide. The nitrogen monoxide releasing, delivering or
transferring compounds have the structure F-NO, wherein F is a nitrogen monoxide
releasing, delivering or transferring moiety, and include any and all such compounds
which provide nitrogen monoxide to its intended site of action in a form active for its
intended purpose.
[0074]     The terms "NO adducts, "NO precursor," and "NO-releasing agent" are used
interchangeably.
[0075]     In exemplary embodiments, the term "hypertonic" refers to a PEGylated Hb
solution having from about 3% to about 7% salt.
The Embodiments
[0076]     The discussion set forth below is germane to the embodiments set forth
hereinbelow as well as those set forth above and in the attached claims. The elements of

                                              26
the embodiments are intended to be combined in any manner whatsoever, and the
discussion presented herein is illustrative of exemplary combinations and is not limiting.
[0077]     In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a composition comprising
water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin. Exemplary compositions
are virally inactivated. The composition includes a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction,
which comprises a group of functional, native hemoglobin molecules. Each member of
this group of hemoglobin molecules is in a deoxygenated state, is free of chemical cross
linking agents, and has a P5 0 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg. Alternatively,
in various embodiments, the P50 of the hemoglobin is from about 9 mm Hg to about 12
mm Hg). The composition also optionally includes a water-soluble stabilizer fraction.
The stabilizer fraction aids in maintaining the group of hemoglobin molecules in a
deoxygenated state. In various embodiments, the stabilizer fraction includes a stabilizing
agent. Exemplary stabilizing agents have a structural element more reactive with oxygen
than the deoxygenated hemoglobin molecules. Also included in the composition is an
aqueous diluent fraction. The diluent fraction includes a pharmaceutically acceptable
diluent in which the hemoglobin fraction and the stabilizer fraction are soluble. In
various embodiments, the composition is essentially free of viral activity. In exemplary
embodiments, the composition comprises less than 10% methemoglobin.
 [0078]    The Fe (II) of the deoxygenated hemoglobin of any of the species of the
invention can be bound to CO or it can be essentially unbound to either oxygen or CO.
In various embodiments, the Fe (II) of the deoxygenated hemoglobin molecules is bound
to neither oxygen nor carbon monoxide. In various embodiments, the hemoglobin
molecule is a member of a population of hemoglobin molecules. In this embodiment, an
exemplary population of hemoglobin molecules includes less than 15%, 14%, 13%, 12%,
11%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2% or less than 1% hemoglobin molecules in
the oxygenated state.
[0079]     The stabilizing fraction of the composition includes an agent that prevents or
retards the oxidation of the deoxygenated hemoglobin. Any convenient and effective
stabilizing agent can be used. In various embodiments, the stabilizing agent is one well
tolerated in biological systems and can be safely administered to mammals. An

                                              27
exemplary stabilizing agent in the stabilizing fraction is an amine, such as an amino acid,
or a thiol compound. An exemplary stabilizing agent is a thiol-containing amino acid,
amino acid analogue or amino acid mimetic. In various embodiments, the amino acid is
selected from naturally occurring and non-naturally occurring amino acids, e.g., cysteine.
[0080]     In various embodiments, the composition includes a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier, such as a diluent fraction comprising a salt. The salt can be selected
from essentially any salt, though those salts presently preferred are salts that are
pharmaceutically acceptable for delivery to mammal. In various embodiments, the
composition includes sodium chloride. The compositions of the invention are isotonic,
hypertonic or hypotonic. In various embodiments, the composition is hypertonic. In an
exemplary embodiment, the composition included sufficient sodium chloride to render it
hypertonic. In other embodiments, the diluent is tonic phosphate buffered saline.
[0081]     In exemplary embodiments, the present invention provides hemoglobin
fractions with essentially no synthetic cross-linking groups covalently joining two or
more hemoglobin molecules. Though a small percentage of cross-links between
hemoglobin molecules may be formed during production or storage of the compositions
of the invention, these cross-linked species represent a small percentage of total
hemoglobin and are not purposely prepared or selected for during purification.
Accordingly, exemplary compositions of the invention typically include a population of
hemoglobin molecules in which less than 10%, less than 5%, less than 4%, less than 3%,
less than 2% or less than 1% of the total hemoglobin content is in the form of two or
more hemoglobin molecules in a cross-linked state.
[0082]     Hemoglobin of use in the present invention is derived from substantially any
mammalian source. Exemplary sources of hemoglobin include common livestock
animals, e.g., cows, pigs, sheep and the like. The invention is not limited by the source of
the hemoglobin. In various embodiments, the hemoglobin is bovine hemoglobin.
[0083]      The hemoglobin compositions of the invention include minimal amounts of
methemoglobin. In various compositions, the amount of methemoglobin is less than
10%, less than 9%, less than 8%, less than 7%, less than 6%, less than 5%, less than 4%,
less than 3%, less than 2% or less than 1%.

                                              28
[0084]    In an exemplary embodiment, the hemoglobin is isolated prior to being
combined with the stabilizing fraction.
[0085]      The invention provides covalent conjugates of hemoglobin with water-soluble
polymers. Many water-soluble polymers are known to those of skill in the art and are
useful in practicing the present invention. The term water-soluble polymer encompasses
species such as saccharides (e.g., dextran, amylose, hyalouronic acid, poly(sialic acid),
heparans, heparins, etc.); poly (amino acids), e.g., poly(aspartic acid) and poly(glutamic
acid); nucleic acids; synthetic polymers (e.g., poly(acrylic acid), poly(ethers), e.g.,
poly(ethylene glycol)); peptides, proteins, and the like. The present invention may be
practiced with any water-soluble polymer with the sole limitation that the polymer must
include a point at which the remainder of the conjugate can be attached.
[0086]      Thus in an exemplary embodiment, the invention virally inactivated
hemoglobin composition, comprising a covalent conjugate between a functional,
deoxygenated, native hemoglobin molecule and at least one water-soluble polymer
moiety. The composition includes a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction including a group
of hemoglobin molecules. Each member of the group of hemoglobin molecules is
deoxygenated. In exemplary embodiments, the water-soluble polymer is covalently
conjugated to the hemoglobin through an amine moiety of an amino acid residue. The
hemoglobin is essentially free of introduced, chemical cross-linking agents. In various
embodiments, the hemoglobin has a P50 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg. In
various embodiments, the P50 is from about 9 mm Hg to about 12 mm Hg. The
composition also includes a water-soluble stabilizer fraction rendering the group of
hemoglobin molecules oxidation resistant. The stabilizer fraction includes a stabilizing
agent. Exemplary stabilizing agents include at least one structural element, which is
more reactive with oxygen than the group of hemoglobin molecules. Various
formulations also include a diluent fraction comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable
diluent in which the hemoglobin fraction is soluble. Exemplary formulations are
essentially free of viral activity, and comprise less than about 10% methemoglobin.
[0087]     Methods for activation of polymers can also be found in WO 94/17039, U.S.
Pat. No. 5,324,844, WO 94/18247, WO 94/04193, U.S. Pat. No. 5,219,564, U.S. Pat. No.

                                                29
5,122,614, WO 90/13540, U.S. Pat. No. 5,281,698, and more WO 93/15189, and for
conjugation between activated polymers and peptides, e.g. Coagulation Factor VIII (WO
94/15625), hemoglobin (WO 94/09027), oxygen carrying molecule (U.S. Pat. No.
4,412,989), ribonuclease and superoxide dismutase (Veronese at al., App. Biochem.
Biotech. 11: 141-45 (1985)).
[0088]      Molecular weight in the context of a water-soluble polymer of use in the
compositions of the invention, such as PEG, can be expressed as either a number average
molecular weight or a weight average molecular weight. Unless otherwise indicated, all
references to molecular weight herein refer to the weight average molecular weight. Both
molecular weight determinations, number average and weight average, can be measured
using gel permeation chromatography or other liquid chromatography techniques. Other
methods for measuring molecular weight values can also be used, such as the use of end
group analysis or the measurement of colligative properties (e.g., freezing-pint
depression, boiling-point elevation, or osmotic pressure) to determine number average
molecular weight or the use of light scattering techniques, ultracentrifugation or
viscometry to determine weight average molecular weight. The polymeric reagents of
the invention are typically polydisperse (i.e., number average molecular weight and
weight average molecular weight of the polymers are not equal), possessing low
polydispersity values of preferably less than about 1.2, more preferably less than about
1.15, still more preferably less than about 1.10, yet still more preferably less than about
1.05, and most preferably less than about 1.03. Exemplary water-soluble polymers are
those in which a substantial proportion of the polymer molecules in a sample of the
polymer are of approximately the same molecular weight; such polymers are
"homodisperse."
[0089]      The present invention is further illustrated by reference to a poly(ethylene
glycol) conjugate. Several reviews and monographs on the functionalization and
conjugation of PEG are available. See, for example, Harris, Macronol. Chem. Phys. C25:
325-373 (1985); Scouten, Methods in Enzymology 135: 30-65 (1987); Wong et al.,
Enzyme Microb. Technol. 14: 866-874 (1992); Delgado et al., CriticalReviews in
Therapeutic Drug CarrierSystems 9: 249-304 (1992); Zalipsky, Bioconjugate Chem. 6:

                                              30
150-165 (1995); and Bhadra, et al., Pharmazie,57:5-29 (2002). Routes for preparing
reactive PEG molecules and forming conjugates using the reactive molecules are known
in the art. For example, U.S. Patent No. 5,672,662 discloses a water soluble and
isolatable conjugate of an active ester of a polymer acid selected from linear or branched
poly(alkylene oxides), poly(oxyethylated polyols), poly(olefinic alcohols), and
poly(acrylomorpholine).
[0090]     U.S. Patent No. 6,376,604 sets forth a method for preparing a water-soluble
1-benzotriazolylcarbonate ester of a water-soluble and non-peptidic polymer by reacting
a terminal hydroxyl of the polymer with di(1-benzotriazoyl)carbonate in an organic
solvent. The active ester is used to form conjugates with a biologically active agent such
as a protein or peptide.
[0091]     WO 99/45964 describes a conjugate comprising a biologically active agent and
an activated water soluble polymer comprising a polymer backbone having at least one
terminus linked to the polymer backbone through a stable linkage, wherein at least one
terminus comprises a branching moiety having proximal reactive groups linked to the
branching moiety, in which the biologically active agent is linked to at least one of the
proximal reactive groups. Other branched poly(ethylene glycols) are described in WO
96/21469, U.S. Patent No. 5,932,462 describes a conjugate formed with a branched PEG
molecule that includes a branched terminus that includes reactive functional groups. The
free reactive groups are available to react with a biologically active species, such as a
protein or peptide, forming conjugates between the poly(ethylene glycol) and the
biologically active species. U.S. Patent No. 5,446,090 describes a bifunctional PEG
linker and its use in forming conjugates having a peptide at each of the PEG linker
termini.
[0092]     Conjugates that include degradable PEG linkages are described in WO
99/34833; and WO 99/14259, as well as in U.S. Patent No. 6,348,558. Such degradable
linkages are applicable in the present invention.
[0093]     The art-recognized methods of polymer activation set forth above are of use in
the context of the present invention in the formation of the branched polymers set forth

                                             31
herein and also for the conjugation of these branched polymers to other species, e.g.,
sugars, sugar nucleotides and the like.
[0094]       An exemplary water-soluble polymer is poly(ethylene glycol), e.g., methoxy
poly(ethylene glycol). The poly(ethylene glycol) used in the present invention is not
restricted to any particular form or molecular weight range. For straight-chain
poly(ethylene glycol) molecules the molecular weight is preferably between 500 and
100,000. A molecular weight of 2000-60,000 is preferably used and preferably of from
about 5,000 to about 40,000. In an exemplary embodiment, the PEG used is a methoxy
PEG, with an average molecular weight of about 5,000.
[0095]       In another embodiment the poly(ethylene glycol) is a branched PEG having
more than one PEG moiety attached. Examples of branched PEGs are described in U.S.
Pat. No. 5,932,462; U.S. Pat. No. 5,342,940; U.S. Pat. No. 5,643,575; U.S. Pat. No.
5,919,455; U.S. Pat. No. 6,113,906; U.S. Pat. No. 5,183,660; WO 02/09766; Kodera Y.,
Bioconjugate Chemistry 5: 283-288 (1994); and Yamasaki et al., Agric. Biol. Chem., 52:
2125-2127, 1998. In a preferred embodiment the molecular weight of each poly(ethylene
glycol) of the branched PEG is less than or equal to 40,000 daltons.
[0096]       In various embodiments, the invention provides a hemoglobin conjugate
having one or more PEG moieties bound thereto. The PEG-hemoglobin is in the CO
form. In an exemplary embodiment, this conjugate is formulated in phosphate buffered
saline.
[0097]       In various embodiments, the invention provides a hemoglobin conjugate
having one or more PEG moieties bound thereto. In various embodiments, the PEG
hemoglobin is deoxygenated and is not in the CO form. In other embodiments, the PEG
hemoglobin is in the CO form. In an exemplary embodiment, this conjugate, whether the
PEG-Hb is in the oxygenated, CO or unbound form, is formulated in hypertonic saline
(high salt). Exemplary salt (e.g., NaCl) concentrations of use in these hypertonic
formulations are from about 4% to about 8%, from about 4.5% to about 7.5% or from
about 5% to about 7%. Exemplary formulations include about 4%, about 5%, about 6%,
about 7% or about 8% salt. In one formulation the salt concentration is 7.5%. In various
embodiments, the salt is NaCl. In exemplary embodiments, the osmolality of the

                                               32
formulation is from about 300-400, or from about 325-375, or from about 340-360
mOsmol. In an exemplary embodiment the salt is NaCl.
[0098]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a PEG-Hb-based
resuscitation fluid having at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90% at least
95% or about 100% of the efficacy equal to fresh frozen plasma in correcting
coagulopathy. Exemplary formulations according to this embodiment further include
coagulation factors, platelets or other substances known to aid in the mitigation of
coagulopathy.
[0099]    In various embodiments, the invention provides a PEG-Hb resuscitation fluid
having a total fluid volume of about 450 mL, and which has an oxygen carrying and/or
oxygen diffusion capacity equivalent to one unit of packed red blood cells, preferably
human red blood cells.
[0100]    In various embodiments, the invention provides a PEG-Hb formulation (e.g., a
resuscitation fluid) capable of carrying CO and diffusing it into tissues. An exemplary
formulation has a total fluid volume of about 450 mL, and which has a CO carrying
and/or CO diffusion capacity sufficient to transfer a therapeutically relevant amount of
CO to a tissue.
[0101]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a PEG-Hb resuscitation
fluid having coagulation factors present. In various embodiments, the coagulation factors
are present in an amount not less than 60%, not less than 70%, not less than 80% or not
less than 90% of fresh frozen plasma.
[0102]    In an exemplary embodiment, the resuscitation fluid includes platelets. It is
generally preferred that the resuscitation fluids of the invention including platelets have a
cell count and activity that is not less than 60%, not less than 70%, not less than 80%, not
less than 90% or is approximately equal to that of a single apheresis unit.
[0103]    Stability to storage is an important aim of the present invention. In various
embodiments, the present invention provides a PEG-Hb resuscitation fluid that is stable
at ambient temperature (- 25 0C) for at least 4 months, at least six months, at least 9
months or at least 12 months.

                                              33
[0104]    The present invention also provides, in various embodiments, a PEG-Hb
resuscitation fluid that is not more immunogenic than current banked blood products.
Also provides is a PEG-Hb resuscitation fluid that is not more thrombogenic than current
banked blood products.
[0105]    Exemplary formulations according to the invention include one or more of these
characteristics in any combination: about 4.0-4.6 wt% Hb, about 1.0-5.0 wt% Met, about
0.0-5.0% of HbO 2 , about 95.0-100.0% of HbCO, a pH of about 8.10-8.20, osmolality of
about 325-370 mOsmol, a P50 (mm Hg) of about 10.00-14.00, and an optical spectrum
with major peaks at 538 nm and 568 nm with absorbance of about 1.4 and 1.9,
respectively, a ratio of peaks at 568 nm/500nm of 2.5-3.0. In other exemplary
formulations, the formulation has an optical spectrum with major peaks at 541 and 576
nm.
[0106]    Even more specifically, exemplary formulations of the invention include one or
more of these characteristics in any combination: about 4.5 wt% Hb, about 1.1 wt% Met,
about 1.2% HbO 2 , about 99.4% HbCO, a pH of about 8.14, osmolality of about 356
mOsmol, a P50 (mm Hg) of about 12.2, and an optical spectrum with major peaks at 538
nm and 568 nm with absorbance of about 1,493 and about 1,465, respectively, and a ratio
of peaks at 568 nm/500nm of about 2.6.
Preparingz the Con jugates
Preparation of Virally Deactivated Hemoglobin
[0107]      Precursor hemoglobin of use in preparing the conjugates of the invention can
be isolated from red blood cells (RBC). Suitable RBC sources include human blood,
bovine blood, ovine blood, porcine blood, blood from other subjects and transgenically
produced hemoglobin, such as the transgenic Hb described in BIO/TECHNOLOGY, 12:
55-59 (1994).
[0108]      The blood can be collected from live or freshly slaughtered donors. One
method for collecting bovine whole blood is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,084,558 and
5,296,465, issued to Rausch et al. It is preferred that the blood be collected in a sanitary
manner.

                                               34
[0109]     Many methods are known in the art for the isolation and purification of
hemoglobin; these methods are generally applicable to the compositions of the current
invention. The discussion following herein is illustrative and not limiting.
[0110]     In various embodiments, at or soon after collection, the blood is optionally
mixed with at least one anticoagulant to prevent significant clotting of the blood.
Suitable anticoagulants for blood are as classically known in the art and include, for
example, sodium citrate, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and heparin. When mixed with
blood, the anticoagulant may be in a solid form, such as a powder, or in an aqueous
solution.
[0111]     The blood solution can be strained prior to or during the anticoagulation step,
for example by straining, to remove large aggregates and particles. A 600 mesh screen is
an example of a suitable strainer.
[0112]       The RBCs in the blood solution are then optionally washed by suitable means,
such as by diafiltration or by a combination of discrete dilution and concentration steps
with at least one solution, such as an isotonic solution, to separate RBCs from
extracellular plasma proteins, such as serum albumins or antibodies (e.g.,
immunoglobulins (IgG)). It is understood that the RBCs can be washed in a batch or
continuous feed mode.
[0113]       Acceptable isotonic solutions are also known in the art and are of general
utility in preparing the formulations of the invention. An exemplary isotonic solution has
a neutral pH and an osmolarity between about 285-315 mOsm. Non-limiting examples of
isotonic solution include solutions, such as a citrate/saline solution, having a pH and
osmolarity which does not rupture the cell membranes of RBCs and which displaces the
plasma portion of the whole blood. An exemplary the isotonic solution is composed of
an aqueous solution of sodium citrate dihydrate (6.0 g/L) and of sodium chloride (8.0
g/L).
[0114]       Water useful in the method of invention includes distilled water, deionized
water, water-for-injection (WFI) and/or low pyrogen water (LPW). WFI, which is
preferred, is deionized, distilled water that meets U.S. Pharmacological Specifications for

                                               35
water-for-injection. WFI is further described in Pharmaceutical Engineering, 11, 15-23
(1991). LPW, which is preferred, is deionized water containing less than 0.002 EU/ml.
[0115]       RBCs in the blood solution can be washed by diafiltration. Suitable diafilters
include microporous membranes with pore sizes which will separate RBCs from
substantially smaller blood solution components, such as a 0.1 P m to 0.5 P m filter (e.g., a
0.2 pm filter). Concurrently, a filtered isotonic solution is added continuously (or in
batches) as makeup at a rate equal to the rate (or volume) of filtrate lost across the
diafilter. During RBC washing, components of the blood solution which are significantly
smaller in diameter than RBCs, or are fluids such as plasma, pass through the walls of the
diafilter in the filtrate. RBCs, platelets and larger bodies of the diluted blood solution,
such as white blood cells, are retained and mixed with isotonic solution, which is added
continuously or batchwise to form a dialyzed blood solution.
[0116]       The RBCs can also be washed through a series of sequential (or reverse
sequential) dilution and concentration steps, wherein the blood solution is diluted by
adding at least one isotonic solution, and is concentrated by flowing across a filter,
thereby forming a dialyzed blood solution.
[0117]       RBC washing is complete when the level of plasma proteins contaminating
the RBCs has been substantially reduced (typically at least about 90%). Additional RBC
washing may further separate extracellular plasma proteins from the RBCs. For instance,
diafiltration with 6 volumes of isotonic solution may remove at least about 99% of IgG
from the blood solution.
[0118]        The dialyzed blood solution is then optionally exposed to means for
separating the RBCs in the dialyzed blood solution from the white blood cells and
platelets, such as by centrifugation.
[0119]       It is understood that other methods generally known in the art for separating
RBCs from other blood components can be employed. For example, sedimentation,
wherein the separation method does not rupture the cell membranes of a significant
amount of the RBCs, such as less than about 30% of the RBCs, prior to RBC separation
from the other blood components.

                                                36
[0120]       Following separation of the RBCs, the hemoglobin is extracted from the
RBCs to form a hemoglobin-containing solution. Extraction can be performed by various
methods including lysis and hypo-osmotic swelling of the RBCs. Lysis means one can
use various lysis methods, such as mechanical lysis, chemical lysis, hypotonic lysis or
other known lysis methods which release hemoglobin without significantly damaging the
ability of the Hb to transport and release oxygen.
[0121]       Alternatively, recombinantly produced hemoglobin, such as the recombinantly
produced hemoglobin described in Nature, 356: 258-260 (1992), can be processed in the
method of invention in place of RBCs. The bacteria cells containing the hemoglobin are
washed and separated from contaminants as described above. These bacteria cells are
then mechanically ruptured by means known in the art, such as a ball mill, to release
hemoglobin from the cells and to form a lysed cell phase. This lysed cell phase is then
processed as is the lysed RBC phase.
[0122]       Following lysis, the lysed RBC phase is then optionally ultrafiltered to remove
larger cell debris, such as proteins with a molecular weight above about 100,000 Daltons.
Generally, cell debris includes all whole and fragmented cellular components with the
exception of Hb, smaller cell proteins, electrolytes, coenzymes and organic metabolic
intermediates. Acceptable ultrafilters include, for example, 100,000 Dalton filters.
[0123]       Other methods for separating Hb from the lysed RBC phase can be employed,
including sedimentation, centrifugation or microfiltration. The Hb filtrate can then be
ultrafiltered to remove smaller cell debris, electrolytes, coenzymes, metabolic
intermediates and proteins less than about 30,000 Daltons in molecular weight, and water
from the Hb ultrafiltrate. Suitable ultrafilters include a 30,000 Dalton ultrafilter.
[0124]       The concentrated Hb solution can then be directed into one or more parallel
chromatographic columns to further separate the hemoglobin by high performance liquid
chromatography from other contaminants such as antibodies, endotoxins, phospholipids
and enzymes and viruses. Examples of suitable media include anion exchange media,
cation exchange media, hydrophobic interaction media and affinity media. In one
embodiment, chromatographic columns contain an anion exchange medium suitable to
separate Hb from non-hemoglobin proteins. Suitable anion exchange mediums include,

                                               37
for example, silica, alumina, titania gel, cross-linked dextran, agarose or a derivatized
moiety, such as a polyacrylamide, a polyhydroxyethylmethacrylate or a styrene
divinylbenzene, that has been derivatized with a cationic chemical functionality, such as a
diethylaminoethyl or quaternary aminoethyl group. A suitable anion exchange medium
and corresponding eluants for the selective absorption and desorption of Hb as compared
to other proteins and contaminants, which are likely to be in a lysed RBC phase, are
readily determinable by one of reasonable skill in the art.
[0125]      The Hb solution is optionally deoxygenated to form a deoxygenated Hb
solution (hereinafter deoxy-Hb) by means that substantially deoxygenates the Hb without
significantly reducing the ability of the Hb in the Hb eluate to transport and release
oxygen, such as would occur from denaturation of formation of oxidized hemoglobin
(metHb).
[0126]      The Hb eluate can be deoxygenated by gas transfer of an inert gas across a
phase membrane. Such inert gases include, for example, nitrogen, argon and helium. It
is understood that other means for deoxygenating a solution of hemoglobin, which are
known in the art, can be used to deoxygenate the Hb eluate. Such other means can
include, for example, nitrogen sparging of the Hb eluate, chemical scavenging with
reducing agents such as N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), cysteine, sodium dithionite or
ascorbate, or photolysis by light. The deoxygenated hemoglobin can be converted to the
CO form.
[0127]      Deoxygenation continues until the p 0 2 of the Hb solution is reduced to a
desired level, for example wherein the oxygenated Hb (oxyhemoglobin or HbO 2) content
in the Hb solution is about 20% or less, 10% or less, 5% or less 3% or less or 1% or less.
[0128]      During deoxygenation, the temperature of the Hb solution is typically
maintained at a level that will balance the rate of deoxygenation against the rate of
methemoglobin formation. Temperature is maintained to limit methemoglobin content to
less than 20%. An optimum temperature will result in less than about 5% methemoglobin
content, and preferably less than about 2.5% methemoglobin content, while still
deoxygenating the Hb solution. Typically, during deoxygenation the temperature of the
Hb solution is maintained between about 15 0C and about 35 0 C. During deoxygenation,

                                                 38
and subsequently throughout the remaining steps of the method of invention, the Hb is
maintained in a low oxygen environment to minimize oxygen absorption by the Hb
[0129]       The deoxygenated-Hb is optionally equilibrated with a low oxygen content
storage buffer, containing a stabilizing agent, e.g., a sulfhydryl compound, to form an
oxidation-stabilized deoxy-Hb. Suitable sulfhydryl compounds include non-toxic agents,
such as N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), D,L-cysteine, y-glutamyl-cysteine, glutathione, 2,3
dimercapto-1-propanol, 1,4-butanedithiol, and other biologically compatible sulfhydryl
compounds. An amount of sulfhydryl compound is added to establish a sulfhydryl
concentration which will scavenge oxygen to maintain methemoglobin content less than
about 15%, less than about 10%, or less than about 5% over the storage period.
Typically, the amount of sulfhydryl compound added is an amount sufficient to establish
a sulfhydryl concentration between about 0.05% and about 0.2% by weight.
[0130]       The invention provides in various embodiments, a virally inactivated
hemoglobin composition comprising water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native
hemoglobin. The composition is prepared by a method comprising, submitting a solution
of deoxygenated hemoglobin and a stabilizing agent to a thermal viral inactivation
process. In an exemplary embodiment, the thermal viral inactivation process includes
exposing the solution to a temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate essentially all
viral activity in said solution; the heat is elevated for a time sufficient to achieve the
inactivation of essentially all viral activity in the solution. An exemplary stabilizing
agent includes a structural element more reactive with oxygen than the deoxygenated
hemoglobin in the solution, thereby minimizing oxygen binding by the deoxygenated
hemoglobin. The solution includes an amount of the stabilizing agent sufficient to
prevent formation of more than about 10%, 8%, 6%, 4% or 2% methemoglobin in the
thermal viral deactivation process. In various embodiments, the stabilizing agent is
selected to and is present in an amount sufficient to maintain methemoglobin
concentration at about 5% or below.
[0131]       In various embodiments, the composition includes a covalent conjugate
between hemoglobin and at least at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at
least 8,at least 9, or at least about 10 water-soluble polymer moieties bound to the

                                                39
hemoglobin. The water-soluble polymers are bound to any appropriate residue on the
hemoglobin. In an exemplary conjugate of the invention, one or more of the water
soluble polymer moieties is bound to an amino acid side chain, e.g., an c-amine moiety of
a lysine residue. In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a PEG-Hb
conjugate as set forth above in which each Hb molecule is conjugated to 7, 8, 9 or 10
PEG moieties. In various embodiments, the invention provides a population of PEG-Hb
conjugates in which the average number of PEG moieties per Hb molecule is from about
7 to about 10, or about 8 and about 9. In an exemplary embodiment, the PEG moiety is a
PEG 5000 moiety.
Synthesis of the Conjugates
[0132]      In various embodiments, the invention provides conjugates between one or
more water-soluble polymer moiety and a hemoglobin polypeptide. In an exemplary
embodiment, the precursor hemoglobin is a virally inactivated hemoglobin composition
comprising water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin. The
composition is prepared by a method comprising, submitting a solution of deoxygenated
hemoglobin and a stabilizing agent to a thermal viral inactivation process. In an
exemplary embodiment, the thermal viral inactivation process includes exposing the
solution to a temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate essentially all viral activity in
said solution; the heat is elevated for a time sufficient to achieve the inactivation of
essentially all viral activity in the solution. An exemplary stabilizing agent includes a
structural element more reactive with oxygen than the deoxygenated hemoglobin in the
solution, thereby minimizing oxygen binding by the deoxygenated hemoglobin. The
solution includes an amount of the stabilizing agent sufficient to prevent formation of
more than about 10%, 8%, 6%, 4% or 2% methemoglobin in the thermal viral
deactivation process. In various embodiments, the stabilizing agent is selected to and is
present in an amount sufficient to maintain methemoglobin concentration at about 5% or
below.
[0133]      In various embodiments, the precursor hemoglobin polypeptide is a virally
inactivated hemoglobin composition comprising water-soluble, functional, deoxygenated,
native hemoglobin. The composition comprises less than about 10% methemoglobin and

                                                 40
is prepared by a method comprising heating a precursor hemoglobin solution to about 60
0
  C for up to about 12 hours, for example, from about 1 hour to about 4 hours. The
precursor solution optionally includes a stabilizing agent. The stabilizing agent includes
a structure that reacts more readily with oxygen or reactive oxygen species than do the
hemoglobin molecules in the solution, thereby minimizing oxygen binding by the
deoxygenated hemoglobin and, thereby forming said composition.
[0134]       The conjugates between water-soluble polymers and the virally inactivated
hemoglobin peptide can be formed by reaction of an activated derivative of the water
soluble polymer and the hemoglobin under suitable conditions. In various embodiments,
the water-soluble polymer is conjugated to the hemoglobin through a side chain of an
amino acid residue, for example, an c-amine moiety of a lysine residue. Exemplary
conjugates of the invention are include at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7,
at least 8, at least 9 or at least 10 water-soluble polymer moieties bound to the
hemoglobin.
[0135]       In an exemplary method of forming a conjugate of the invention, a precursor
virally inactivated hemoglobin composition is oxygenated and the oxygenated
hemoglobin is contacted with an activated water-soluble polymer molecule of reactivity
complementary to an amino acid residue of the hemoglobin, thereby forming a covalent
conjugate between the water-soluble polymer and oxygenated hemoglobin molecules in
the oxygenated hemoglobin solution. In an exemplary embodiment, the hemoglobin of
the covalent conjugate is deoxygenated or bound to CO. The deoxygenation can be
mechanical or chemical, affording a hemoglobin molecule in which the iron is either
unbound or is bound to CO.
[0136]     In general, the water-soluble polymer (e.g., PEG) moiety and the polypeptide
are linked together through the use of reactive groups, which are typically transformed by
the linking process into a new organic functional group or species that is unreactive under
physiologically relevant conditions. The reactive functional group(s) are located at any
position on the peptide and water-soluble polymer. Reactive groups and classes of
reactions useful in practicing the present invention are generally those that are well
known in the art of bioconjugate chemistry. Currently favored classes of reactions

                                              41
available with reactive amino acid moieties are those, which proceed under relatively
mild conditions. These include, but are not limited to nucleophilic substitutions (e.g.,
reactions of amines and alcohols with acyl halides, active esters), electrophilic
substitutions (e.g., enamine reactions) and additions to carbon-carbon and carbon
heteroatom multiple bonds (e.g., Michael reaction, Diels-Alder addition). These and
other useful reactions are discussed in, for example, March, ADVANCED ORGANIC
CHEMISTRY, 3rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1985; Hermanson, BIOCONJUGATE
TECHNIQUES, Academic Press, San Diego, 1996; and Feeney et al., MODIFICATION OF
PROTEINS; Advances in Chemistry Series, Vol. 198, American Chemical Society,
Washington, D.C., 1982.
[0137]    Useful reactive functional groups pendent from a hemoglobin polypeptide or
water-soluble polymer include, but are not limited to:
                (a) carboxyl groups and various derivatives thereof including, but not
                limited to, N-hydroxysuccinimide esters, N-hydroxybenztriazole esters,
                acid halides, acyl imidazoles, thioesters, p-nitrophenyl esters, alkyl,
                alkenyl, alkynyl and aromatic esters;
                (b) hydroxyl groups, which can be converted to, e.g., esters, ethers,
                aldehydes, etc.
                (c) haloalkyl groups, wherein the halide can be later displaced with a
                nucleophilic group such as, for example, an amine, a carboxylate anion,
                thiol anion, carbanion, or an alkoxide ion, thereby resulting in the covalent
                attachment of a new group at the functional group of the halogen atom;
                (d) dienophile groups, which are capable of participating in Diels-Alder
                reactions such as, for example, maleimido groups;
                (e) aldehyde or ketone groups, such that subsequent derivatization is
                possible via formation of carbonyl derivatives such as, for example,
                imines, hydrazones, semicarbazones or oximes, or via such mechanisms as
                Grignard addition or alkyllithium addition;

                                               42
                 (f) sulfonyl halide groups for subsequent reaction with amines, for
                 example, to form sulfonamides;
                 (g) thiol groups, which can be, for example, converted to disulfides or
                 reacted with acyl halides, or converted to thioethers, e.g., by reaction with
                 maleimides;
                 (h) amine or sulfhydryl groups, which can be, for example, acylated,
                 alkylated or oxidized;
                 (i) alkenes, which can undergo, for example, cycloadditions, acylation,
                 Michael addition, etc;
                 (j) epoxides, which can react with, for example, amines and hydroxyl
                 compounds; and
                 (k) maleimides, which can react with, for example, amines and
                 sulfhydryls.
[0138]     The reactive functional groups can be chosen such that they do not participate
in, or interfere with, the reactions necessary to assemble the reactive polymeric
modifying group (e.g., PEG). Alternatively, a reactive functional group can be protected
from participating in the reaction by the presence of a protecting group. Those of skill in
the art understand how to protect a particular functional group such that it does not
interfere with a chosen set of reaction conditions. For examples of useful protecting
groups, see, for example, Greene et al., PROTECTIVE GROUPS IN ORGANIC SYNTHESIS,
John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1991.
[0139]     Suitable conjugation conditions are those conditions of time, temperature, pH,
reagent concentration, reagent functional group(s), available functional groups on the
active agent, solvent, and the like sufficient to effect conjugation between a polymeric
reagent and an active agent. As is known in the art, the specific conditions depend upon,
among other things, the active agent, the type of conjugation desired, the presence of
other materials in the reaction mixture, and so forth. Sufficient conditions for effecting
conjugation in any particular case can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art

                                                 43
upon a reading of the disclosure herein, reference to the relevant literature, and/or
through routine experimentation.
[0140]     For example, when the polymeric reagent contains an N-hydroxysuccinimide
active ester (e.g., succinimidyl succinate, succinimidyl carbonate, succinimidyl
propionate, and succinimidyl butanoate), and the active agent contains an amine group
(e.g., a terminal amine group on a polypeptide and/or an epsilon amine of a lysine
containing polypeptide), conjugation can be effected at a pH of from about 7.5 to about
9.5 at room temperature. In addition, when the polymeric reagent contains a vinylsulfone
reactive group or a maleimide group and the pharmacologically active agent contains a
sulfhydryl group (e.g., a sulfhydryl group of a cysteine-containing or methionine
containing polypeptide), conjugation can be effected at a pH of from about 7 to about 8.5
at room temperature. Moreover, when the reactive group associated with the polymeric
reagent is an aldehyde or ketone and the pharmacologically active agent contains a
primary amine, conjugation can be effected by reductive amination wherein the primary
amine of the pharmacologically active agent reacts with the aldehyde or ketone of the
polymer. Taking place at pH's of from about 6 to about 9.5, reductive amination initially
results in a conjugate wherein the pharmacologically active agent and polymer are linked
via an imine bond. Subsequent treatment of the imine-containing conjugate with a
suitable reducing agent such as NaCNBH 3 reduces the imine to a secondary amine.
[0141]     Exemplary conjugation conditions include carrying out the conjugation reaction
at a pH of from about 4 to about 10, and at, for example, a pH of about 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5,
6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5, 9.0, 9.5, or 10.0. The reaction is allowed to proceed from
about 5 minutes to about 72 hours, for example, from about 30 minutes to about 48 hours,
for example, from about 4 hours to about 24 hours. The temperature under which
conjugation can take place is typically, although not necessarily, in the range of from
about 0 0C to about 40 0C, and is often at room temperature or less. The conjugation
reactions are often carried out using a phosphate buffer solution, sodium acetate, or a
similar system.
[0142]     With respect to reagent concentration, an excess of the polymeric reagent is
typically combined with the hemoglobin. Exemplary ratios of polymeric reagent to

                                               44
hemoglobin include molar ratios of about 1:1 (polymeric reagent:hemoglobin), 5:1, 10:1,
15:1, 20:1, 25:1 or 30:1. in various embodiments, the conjugation reaction is allowed to
proceed until substantially no further conjugation occurs, which can generally be
determined by monitoring the progress of the reaction over time.
[0143]     Progress of the reaction can be monitored by withdrawing aliquots from the
reaction mixture at various time points and analyzing the reaction mixture by SDS-PAGE
or MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry or any other suitable analytical method. Once a
plateau is reached with respect to the amount of conjugate formed or the amount of
unconjugated polymeric reagent remaining, the reaction is assumed to be complete.
Typically, the conjugation reaction takes anywhere from minutes to several hours (e.g.,
from 5 minutes to 24 hours or more). The resulting product mixture is preferably, but not
necessarily purified, to separate out excess polymeric reagent, unconjugated reactants
(e.g., active agent), and undesired multi-conjugated species. The resulting conjugates can
then be further characterized using analytical methods such as MALDI, capillary
electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis, and/or chromatography.
[0144]     The polymer-hemoglobin conjugates can be purified to obtain/isolate different
conjugated species. Alternatively, and more preferably for lower molecular weight (e.g.,
less than about 20,000 Dalton, more preferably less than about 10,000 Dalton) polymeric
reagents used to form conjugates, the product mixture can be purified to obtain the
distribution of water-soluble polymer segments per active agent. For example, the
product mixture can be purified to obtain an average of a desired number of attachments
of the polymeric reagent per Hb molecule, typically an average of about 7, 8, 9 or 10
attachments per Hb molecule. The strategy for purification of the final conjugate reaction
mixture will depend upon a number of factors, including, for example, the molecular
weight of the polymeric reagent employed, the particular Hb formulation, the desired
dosing regimen, and the residual activity and in vivo properties of the individual
conjugate(s).
[0145]     If desired, conjugates having different molecular weights can be isolated using
gel filtration chromatography. That is to say, gel filtration chromatography is used to
fractionate differently numbered polymeric reagent-to-active agent ratios (e.g., 1-mer, 2-

                                              45
mer, 3-mer, and so forth, wherein "1-mer" indicates 1 polymeric reagent to active agent,
"2-mer" indicates two polymeric reagents to active agent, and so on) on the basis of their
differing molecular weights (where the difference corresponds essentially to the average
molecular weight of the water-soluble polymer segments). For example, in an exemplary
reaction where a 100,000 Dalton protein is randomly conjugated to a branched PEG
having a total molecular weight of about 20,000 Daltons (wherein each polymer "arm" of
the branched PEG has a molecular weight of about 10,000 Daltons), the resulting reaction
mixture may contain unmodified protein (having a molecular weight of about 100,000
Daltons), monoPEGylated protein (having a molecular weight of about 120,000 Daltons),
diPEGylated protein (having a molecular weight of about 140,000 Daltons), and so forth.
[0146]    While this approach can be used to separate PEG and other polymer-active
agent conjugates having different molecular weights, this approach is generally
ineffective for separating positional isomers having different polymer attachment sites
within the protein. For example, gel filtration chromatography can be used to separate
from each other mixtures of PEG 1-mers, 2-mers, 3-mers, and so forth, although each of
the recovered PEG-mer compositions may contain PEGs attached to different reactive
amino groups (e.g., lysine residues) within the active agent.
[0147]    Gel filtration columns suitable for carrying out this type of separation include
SuperdexTM and SephadexTM columns available from Amersham Biosciences
(Piscataway, N.J.). Selection of a particular column will depend upon the desired
fractionation range desired. Elution is generally carried out using a suitable buffer, such
as phosphate, acetate, or the like. The collected fractions may be analyzed by a number
of different methods, for example, (i) optical density (OD) at 280 nm for protein content,
(ii) bovine serum albumin (BSA) protein analysis, (iii) iodine testing for PEG content
(Sims et al. (1980) Anal. Biochem, 107:60-63), and (iv) sodium dodecyl sulfate
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS PAGE), followed by staining with barium
iodide.
[0148]    In various embodiments, the water-soluble polymer is PEG and it has a
molecular weight of approximately 1 kD, 5 kD, 10 kD, 15 kD, 20 kD, 30 kD or 40 kD.
The PEG moieties are linear or branched PEG species. The terminus of the PEG moiety,

                                                46
which is not attached to polypeptide (or to a linker attached to the polypeptide), can be
either OH or another moiety, e.g., 0-(CI-C4) substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group.
OMe (where Me is a methyl group) is presently preferred.
[0149]     In an exemplary embodiment, the water-soluble polymer is a linear or branched
PEG. In various embodiments, the conjugates include 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 PEG
moieties per peptide. In an exemplary embodiment, the water-soluble polymer is a linear
PEG and the conjugate includes approximately 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 PEG moieties per peptide
molecule. In another exemplary embodiment, the water-soluble polymer is a branched
PEG and the conjugate includes approximately 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 PEG moieties per peptide
molecule.
[0150]     In exemplary embodiments, in which the PEG is a linear species, the PEG
moiety has a molecular weight which is from about 200 D to about 20 kD. In various
embodiments, in which the PEG moiety is a linear PEG moiety, the molecular weight of
the linear PEG is at least about 200 D, at least about 500 D, at least about 1 kD, at least
about 2 kD, at least about 5 kD, at least about 10 kD, at least about 20 kD, at least about
30 kD or at least about 40 kD.
[0151]     An exemplary PEG species of use in the invention is a branched PEG having
two or more PEG arms. An exemplar of this embodiment is based on a side-chain amino
acid, e.g., serine, cysteine or lysine and di-, tri- and tetra-peptides formed from these
amino acids individually or in combination.
[0152]     In other exemplary embodiments in which the PEG species is branched, the
branched PEG includes from 2 to 6 linear PEG arms. Exemplary PEG arms have a
molecular weight from about 200 D to about 30 kD. In various embodiments, each arm
has an individually selected molecular weight that is at least about 2 kD, at least about 5
kD, at least about 10 kD, at least about 15 kD, at least about 20 kD, at least about 30 kD
or at least about 40 kD.
[0153] In various embodiments, at least one poly(ethylene glycol) moiety is covalently
conjugated through an amine moiety of an amino acid residue of the hemoglobin
molecules.

                                               47
In an exemplary embodiment, the amino acid residue is a lysine residue and at least one
poly(ethylene glycol) moiety is covalently conjugated to an c-amine moiety of the lysine
residue. Exemplary conjugation motifs are through a bond which is a member selected
from an amide and a urethane.
Stability of the Conjugates
[0154]     In various embodiments, the invention provides PEG-hemoglobin conjugates
that are highly stable, as measured by their resistance to formation of methemoglobin. In
one embodiment, the invention provides a conjugate that includes less than about 10%,
9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4% or 3% methemoglobin after storage at 45 0 C for at least about
4 days, at least about 5 days, at least about 6 days, at least about 7 days, at least about 8
days, at least about 9 days, at least about 10 days, at least about 11 days, at least about 12
days, at least about 13 days, at least about 14 days, or at least about 15 days.
[0155]     In various embodiment, the invention provides PEG-hemoglobin conjugates that
are highly stable, as measured by their resistance to formation of methemoglobin. In one
embodiment, the invention provides a conjugate that includes less than about 10%, 9%,
8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4% or 3% methemoglobin after storage at 4 0C for at least about 5
weeks, at least about 6 weeks, at least about 7 weeks, at least about 8 weeks, at least
about 9 weeks, at least about 10 weeks, at least about 11 weeks, at least about 12 weeks,
at least about 13 weeks, at least about 14 weeks, at least about 15 weeks, or at least about
16 weeks.
[0156]     In various embodiments, the invention provides carbon monoxide (CO) form of
the PEG-hemoglobin conjugate. This form appears to be particularly stable with regard
to keeping %MET-Hb formation low as shown in Table 3. For example, the CO form
showed only 4.0% %MET-Hb after storage at 370 C for 16 weeks. This is more stable
than the mechanically deoxygenated form.
[0157]     An exemplary conjugate of the invention is fully efficacious in an animal model
of hypovolemic shock after storage at 45 0C for at least about 3 weeks, at least about 4
weeks or at least about 5 weeks.

                                              48
[0158]    In an exemplary formulation according to each of the above descriptions, the
hemoglobin of the conjugate is in the CO form. In various embodiments, the invention
provides a PEG-Hb-CO conjugate that is stable at 4 0C for at least about 3 months, at
least about 6 months, at least about 9 months or at least about 12 months.
Combination Formulations
[0159]    In various exemplary embodiments, the invention provides combination
formulations including one or more PEG-Hb conjugate or formulation of the invention in
combination with another therapeutic agent or an agent that potentiates, complements or
augments the activity of the PEG-Hb conjugate in the formulation. Exemplary agents
include, but are not limited to, coagulants or precursors to coagulants, antioxidant
enzymes, and agents that provide prophylaxis against or treat ischemia/reperfusion injury.
Exemplary species according to these examples are set forth below.
[0160]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a formulation including
one or more PEG-Hb composition of the invention in combination with platelets.
[0161]    Platelets are anucleate bone marrow-derived blood cells that protect injured
mammals from blood loss by adhering to sites of vascular injury and by promoting the
formation of plasma fibrin clots. Humans depleted of circulating platelets by bone
marrow failure suffer from life threatening spontaneous bleeding, and less severe
deficiencies of platelets contribute to bleeding complications following trauma or
surgery.
[0162]    A great deal is known about human platelet cells. General publications
describing techniques, materials, and methods for the storage of platelets are described by
Murphy et al., Blood 60(1):194-200 (1982); Murphy in "The Preparation and Storage of
Platelets for Transfusion", Mammon, Barnhart, Lusher, and Walsh, PJD Publications,
Ltd., Westbury, N.Y. (1980); Murphy in "Platelet Transfusion", Progress in Hemostasis
and Thrombosis, Vol. III, Ed. by T. Spaet, Grune and Stratton, Inc. (1976); Murphy et al.,
Blood 46(2):209-218 (1975); Kilkson et al., Blood 64(2):406-414 (1984); Murphy in
"Platelet Storage for Transfusion", Seminars in Hematology 22(3): 165-177 (1985);

                                               49
Simon et al., Transfusion 23:207-212 (1983); Cesar et al., Transfusion 27(5):434-437
(1987).
[0163]    A reduction in the number of circulating platelets to below -70,000 per P L
reportedly results in a prolongation of a standardized cutaneous bleeding time test, and
the bleeding interval prolongs, extrapolating to near infinity as the platelet count falls to
zero. Patients with platelet counts of less than 20,000 per PL are thought to be highly
susceptible to spontaneous hemorrhage from mucosal surfaces.
[0164]    The platelet PEG-Hb formulations of the invention are of use to treat subjects
suffering from bone marrow failure, e.g., aplastic anemia, acute and chronic leukemias,
metastatic cancer but especially resulting from cancer treatment with ionizing radiation
and chemotherapy. Moreover, the formulations are of use in the treatment and
amelioration of thrombocytopenia associated with major surgery, injury (e.g., trauma)
and sepsis.
[0165]    The platelets and PEG-Hb formulation can be combined in any practical and
efficacious manner. Thus, in an exemplary embodiment, the platelets and PEG-Hb are
combined shortly before the resulting composition is administered to a subject. In other
exemplary embodiments, the platelet-PEG-Hb formulation is prepared and stored for an
appropriate time.
[0166]    In various embodiments, the platelets, either alone or in combination with the
PEG-Hb formulation are stabilized by a stabilizing agent. Exemplary stabilizing agents
of use in the present invention are known in the art. See, for example, U.S. Pat. No.s
7,241,282 and 5,466,573. The source of platelets is also optionally a blood composition
enriched in platelets and fibrinogen such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,649,072.
[0167]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a kit in which the two (or
more) components are present and stored separately prior to their combination. For
example, in various embodiments the invention provides a device for combining the
platelets and PEG-Hb formulation. The device includes a first container for collecting or
storing Factor(s); and at least one satellite container in fluid communication with the first
container in which the PEG-Hb formulation is stored. In use, a break seal barrier is

                                               50
interposed between the first and satellite container such that upon rupture of the seal, the
two components of the formulation can be mixed and subsequently administered to a
subject in need thereof. As one of skill will appreciate, equivalents of the device
described are available and fall within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For
example, a kit can include two or more ampoules, each containing an element of the
combination formulation of the invention in liquid or dry form. The contents of the
ampoules can be mixed at an appropriate time and in an appropriate manner prior to the
administration of the combination formulation to a subject in need thereof.
[0168]     In a further exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a formulation in
which a PEG-Hb formulation of the invention is combined with one or more coagulation
factor. Such formulations are of use in the treatment of certain coagulation disorders
(e.g., a hereditary or acquired deficiency in blood coagulation), acute hemorrhage, and
pre-surgery prophylaxis of bleeding amongst other uses.
[0169]     In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a combination formulation
including a PEG-Hb formulation of the invention and a coagulation factor which is a
member selected from Factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII and a combination
thereof. In various exemplary embodiments, the Factor is selected from Factor VII,
Factor VIII and Factor IX or a combination thereof.
[0170]     Coagulation of blood is a complex process requiring the sequential interaction
of a large number of components, nearly all of which are proteins. These components
include fibrinogen and Factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII. A lack of any of these
components, or a nonfunctional component, can lead to an inability of the blood to clot
when required, with resultant excessive and life-threatening blood loss to the patient.
[0171]     The art is replete with established methods for preparation of coagulation factor
concentrates various sorbents. For example, purification of the Factor VIII complex has
resulted in Factor VIII preparations which have a purity level of about 90% or greater,
and which are sufficiently stable for storage for long periods of time in a lyophilized
form. See, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,650,858; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,399,670. Factor
VIII formulations are also available. These include human factor VIII (like the active
principles of HumateTM, MonoclateTM, lmmunateTM, and HemofilTM.), recombinant

                                               51
human factor VIII (like r-VIII SQ which is described in PCT patent application WO
91/09122 (the active principle of ReFactoTM) or the active principles of Kogenate TM or
RecombinateTM), porcine factor VIII (which is the active principle of the product
Hyate:CTM) sold by Ipsen, Inc., USA) or recombinant porcine factor VIII (e.g. a modified
B-domainless form of porcine factor VIII like the one disclosed in patent application WO
01/68109 and identified as "POL1212".
[0172]    Additional Factor VIII formulations of use in the present invention include
those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,565,427, U.S. Pat. No. 5,605,884, U.S. Pat. No.
5,763,401 U.S. Pat. No. 5,874,408, U.S. Pat. No. 5,962,650, U.S. Pat. No. 5,972,885,
WO 89/09784, and WO 94/07510.
[0173]    Other Factors are similarly available and of use in the present invention. In an
exemplary embodiment, Factor VII is incorporated into a PEG-Hb formulation of the
invention. Factor VII is a single chain glycoprotein (mol. wt. 50,000) of 406 amino acids
that is secreted into the blood where it circulates in a zymogen form. In vitro, FVII can be
proteolytically activated to activated Factor FVII, or FVIIa, by the action of activated
coagulation factors Factor X (FXa), Factor IX (FIXa), Factor XII (FXIIa) or Factor II
(FIa). FVIIa does not promote coagulation by itself, but can complex with tissue factor
(TF) exposed at the site of injury. The FVIIa/TF complex can convert FX to FXa, thereby
inducing local hemostasis at the site of injury. Activation of FVII to FVIIa involves
proteolytic cleavage at a single peptide bond between Arg-152 and Ile-153, resulting in a
two-chain molecule consisting of a light chain of 152 amino acid residues and a heavy
chain of 254 amino acid residues held together by a single disulfide bond.
[0174]    Methods of producing and purifying Factor VII are known in the art. See, for
example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,329,176. Some protein-engineered variants of FVII have been
reported. See, e.g., Dickinson et al., J. Bio. Chem. 272:19875-19879 (1997), Kemball
Cook et al., J. Biol. Chem. 273:8516-8521 (1998), Bharadwaj et al., J. Biol. Chem.
271:30685-30691 (1996), Ruf et al., Biochemistry, 38:1957-1966 (1999); WO 99/20767;
WO 00/11416; WO 02/22776; WO 02/38162; WO 01/83725; WO 01/58935; and U.S.
Pat. No. 5,580,560.     FVII has been expressed in BHK and other mammalian cells (WO
92/15686, WO 91/11514 and WO 88/10295) and co-expression of FVII and kex2

                                               52
endoprotease in eukaryotic cells (WO 00/28065). Commercial preparations of human
recombinant FVIIa are sold as NovoSevenTM.        NovoSevenTM is indicated for the
treatment of bleeding episodes in hemophilia A or B patients.
[0175]    Hemophilia B is caused by a deficiency of a blood plasma protein called Factor
IX that affects the clotting property of blood. The disorder is caused by an inherited X
linked recessive trait, with the defective gene located on the X chromosome. Thus, the
disorder occurs primarily in males. Human factor IX is a vitamin K-dependent zymogen
which plays an important role in blood coagulation. Factor IX circulates as a 415-amino
acid single chain zymogen with a molecular mass of 55,000 daltons and is present in
normal plasma at approximately 5 p g/ml.
[0176]    Several commercial forms of Factor IX concentrates are available to provide
replacement therapy for patients suffering from hemophilia B. For example, blood
derived Factor IX complex products (containing other factors ) are sold under the Bebulin
VHTM   (Baxter Healthcare, Vienna, Austria), konyne    80TM  (Bayer Corporation, Elkhart
                      TM
Ind.), Profilnine SD       (Alpha Therapeutic Corporation, Los Angeles Calif.), and
ProplexTM (Baxter Healthcare, Glendale Calif.) brands. Somewhat more purified forms
of Factor IX products are sold under the Alphanine    SDTM   (Alpha Therapeutic
Corporation, Los Angeles Calif.) and Mononine TM (Aventis Behring, Kankakee Ill.)
brands. With respect to recombinantly prepared Factor IX concentrates, one product,
which is currently available is Benefix.  TM  (Wyeth/Genetics Institute, Cambridge Mass.).
[0177]    Recombinant synthesis and purification of other coagulation factors and
incorporation of these factors into a formulation of the invention is with the abilities of
those of skill in the art.
[0178]    The Factor(s) and PEG-Hb formulation can be combined in any practical and
efficacious manner. Thus, in an exemplary embodiment, the Factor(s) and PEG-Hb are
combined shortly before the resulting composition is administered to a subject. In other
exemplary embodiments, the Factor(s)-PEG-Hb formulation is prepared and stored for an
appropriate time.

                                               53
[0179]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a kit in which the two (or
more) components are present and stored separately prior to their combination. For
example, in various embodiments the invention provides a device for combining the
Factor(s) and PEG-Hb formulation. The device includes a first container for collecting or
storing Factor(s); and at least one satellite container in fluid communication with the first
container in which the PEG-Hb formulation is stored. In use, a break seal barrier is
interposed between the first and satellite container such that upon rupture of the seal, the
two components of the formulation can be mixed and subsequently administered to a
subject in need thereof. As one of skill will appreciate, equivalents of the device
described are available and fall within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For
example, a kit can include two or more ampoules, each containing an element of the
combination formulation of the invention in liquid or dry form. The contents of the
ampoules can be mixed at an appropriate time and in an appropriate manner prior to the
administration of the combination formulation to a subject in need thereof.
[0180]    In another exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a combination
formulation between a source of NO and a PEG-Hb formulation of the invention. This
embodiment of the invention is illustrated by reference to various NO-donor molecules,
however, one of skill will readily appreciate that the source of NO is not limited to these
exemplary illustrations and other sources of NO can be incorporated into the combination
formulation of the invention.
[0181]    Nitric oxide (NO) is an important intracellular and intercellular messenger
molecule that plays an important physiological role in anti-platelet aggregation and anti
platelet activation, vascular relaxation, neurotransmission, and immune response. NO
(nitric oxide) is a biological "messenger molecule" which decreases blood pressure and
inhibits platelet function, among other functions. NO freely diffuses from endothelium to
vascular smooth muscle and platelet and across neuronal synapses to evoke biological
responses.
[0182]    Tissues deprived of blood and oxygen undergo ischemic necrosis or infarction
with possible irreversible organ damage. Once the flow of blood and oxygen is restored
to the organ or tissue (reperfusion), the organ does not immediately return to the normal

                                                54
pre-ischemic state. Post-ischemic dysfunction may be due to a variety of factors.
Oxygen free radicals may play a role, as generation of free radicals in stunned
myocardium has been demonstrated and free radical scavengers have been shown to
attenuate contractile dysfunction. Impaired intracellular calcium handling and calcium
overload during early reperfusion may contribute to post-ischemic dysfunction.
[0183]     It is well established that excessive oxidative stress due to free radicals may
injure biological tissues. The natural defenses of cells and tissues revolve around
antioxidant mechanisms that have evolved to protect the cells and tissues against high
levels of oxidative stress. In our oxygen rich atmosphere the presence of oxygen at
certain times of stress may be injurious; this has been termed the oxygen paradox and
relates to the role of oxygen in generating and participating in free radical processes. In
certain disease states associated with periods of restricted blood flow to tissues, such as
heart attack, stroke and restricted flow to the extremities, intermittent episodes of no flow
followed by re-flow of blood constitute ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) oxidative stress.
[0184]     As used herein the term NO donor encompasses any nitrogen monoxide
releasing, delivering or transferring compounds, including, for example, S-nitrosothiols,
nitrites, nitrates, S-nitrothiols, sydnonimines, 2-hydroxy-2-nitrosohydrazines,
(NONOates), (E)-alkyl-2-((E)-hydroxyimino)-5 -nitro-3 -hexeneamide (FK-409), (E)
allyl-2-((E)-hydroxyimino)-5-nitro-3-hexeneamines, N-((2Z, 3E)-4-ethyl-2
(hydroxyimino)-6-methyl-5-nitro-3-heptenyl)-3-pyridinecarbo- xamide (FR 146801), N
nitrosoamines, N-hydroxyl nitrosamines, nitrosimines, diazetine dioxides, oxatriazole 5
imines, oximes, hydroxylamines, N-hydroxyguanidines, hydroxyureas, benzofuroxanes,
furoxans as well as substrates for the endogenous enzymes which synthesize nitric oxide.
[0185]     Suitable NONOates include, but are not limited to, (Z)-1-(N-methyl-N-(6-(N
methyl-ammoniohexyl)amino))diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate ("MAHMA/NO"), (Z)-1-(N-(3
ammoniopropyl)-N-(n-propyl)amino)diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate           ("PAPA/NO"), (Z)-1-(N
(3 -aminopropyl)-N-(4-(3 -aminopropylammonio)butyl)-amino) diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate
(spermine NONOate or "SPER/NO") and sodium(Z)-1-(N,N-diethylamino)diazenium
1,2-diolate (diethylamine NONOate or "DEA/NO") and derivatives thereof. NONOates
are also described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,232,336, 5,910,316 and 5,650,447, the disclosures

                                               55
of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The "NO adducts" can be
mono-nitrosylated, poly-nitrosylated, mono-nitrosated and/or poly-nitrosated at a variety
of naturally susceptible or artificially provided binding sites for biologically active forms
of nitrogen monoxide.
[0186]    Suitable furoxanes include, but are not limited to, CAS 1609, C93-4759, C92
4678, S35b, CHF 2206, CHF 2363, and the like.
[0187]    Suitable sydnonimines include, but are not limited to, molsidomine (N
ethoxycarbonyl-3-morpholinosydnonimine), SIN-i (3-morpholinosydnonimine) CAS
936 (3 -(cis-2,6-dimethylpiperidino)-N-(4-methoxybenzoyl)- sydnonimine, pirsidomine),
C87-3754 (3-(cis-2,6-dimethylpiperidino)sydnonimine, linsidomine, C4144 (3-(3,3
dimethyl-1,4-thiazane-4-yl)sydnonimine hydrochloride), C89-4095 (3-(3,3-dimethyl-1,1
dioxo-1,4-thiazane-4-yl)sydnonimine hydrochloride, and the like.
[0188]    Suitable oximes, include but are not limited to, NOR-1, NOR-3, NOR-4, and the
like.
[0189]    One group of NO adducts is the S-nitrosothiols, which are compounds that
include at least one SNO group. These compounds include S-nitroso-polypeptides (the
term "polypeptide" includes proteins and polyamino acids that do not possess an
ascertained biological function, and derivatives thereof); S-nitrosylated amino acids
(including natural and synthetic amino acids and their stereoisomers and racemic
mixtures and derivatives thereof); S-nitrosylated sugars; S-nitrosylated, modified and
unmodified, oligonucleotides (preferably of at least 5, and more preferably 5-200
nucleotides); straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic or aromatic,
substituted or unsubstituted S-nitrosylated hydrocarbons; and S-nitroso heterocyclic
compounds. S-nitrosothiols and methods for preparing them are described in U.S. Pat.
Nos. 5,380,758 and 5,703,073; WO 97/27749; WO 98/19672; and Oae et al, Org. Prep.
Proc. Int., 15(3):165-198 (1983), the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by
reference herein in their entirety.
[0190]    Another suitable NO donor class is S-nitroso amino acids where the nitroso
group is linked to a sulfur group of a sulfur-containing amino acid or derivative thereof.

                                              56
Such compounds include, for example, S-nitroso-N-acetylcysteine, S-nitro so-captopril,
S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, S-nitroso-homocysteine, S-nitroso-cysteine, S-nitroso
glutathione, S-nitroso-cysteinyl-glycine, and the like.
[0191]    Suitable S-nitrosylated proteins include thiol-containing proteins (where the NO
group is attached to one or more sulfur groups on an amino acid or amino acid derivative
thereof) from various functional classes including enzymes, such as tissue-type
plasminogen activator (TPA) and cathepsin B; transport proteins, such as lipoproteins;
heme proteins, such as hemoglobin and serum albumin; and biologically protective
proteins, such as immunoglobulins, antibodies and cytokines. Such nitrosylated proteins
are described in WO 93/09806, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety. Examples include polynitrosylated albumin where one or more
thiol or other nucleophilic centers in the protein are modified.
[0192]    Another group of NO adducts for use in the invention, where the NO adduct is a
compound that donates, transfers or releases nitric oxide, include compounds comprising
at least one ONO or ONN group. The compounds that include at least one ONO- or ON
N group are preferably ONO or ONN-polypeptides (the term "polypeptide" includes
proteins and polyamino acids that do not possess an ascertained biological function, and
derivatives thereof); ONO or ONN-amino acids (including natural and synthetic amino
acids and their stereoisomers and racemic mixtures); ONO- or ONN-sugars; ONO or ON
N modified or unmodified oligonucleotides (comprising at least 5 nucleotides, preferably
5-200 nucleotides); ONO or ON straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic
or aromatic, substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons; and ONO, ONN or ONC
heterocyclic compounds. Preferred examples of compounds comprising at least one
ON-O or ON-N group include butyl nitrite, isobutyl nitrite, tert-butyl nitrite, amyl nitrite,
isoamyl nitrite, N-nitrosamines, N-nitrosamides, N-nitrosourea, N-nitrosoguanidines, N
nitrosocarbamates, N-acyl-N-nitroso compounds (such as, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea); N
hydroxy-N-nitrosamines, cupferron, alanosine, dopastin, 1,3-disubstitued
nitrosiminobenzimidazoles, 1,3,4-thiadiazole-2-nitrosimines, benzothiazole-2(3H)
nitrosimines, thiazole-2-nitrosimines, oligonitroso sydnonimines, 3-alkyl-N-nitroso
sydnonimines, 2H-1,3,4-thiadiazine nitrosimines.

                                                57
[0193]    Another group of NO adducts for use in the invention include nitrates that
donate, transfer or release nitric oxide, such as compounds comprising at least one O 2NO,
O 2NN or O 2NS group. Preferred among these compounds are O 2NO, O 2NN- or O 2NS
polypeptides (the term "polypeptide" includes proteins and also polyamino acids that do
not possess an ascertained biological function, and derivatives thereof); O 2NO, O 2NN or
0 2NS amino acids (including natural and synthetic amino acids and their stereoisomers
and racemic mixtures); ONO, O2NN or O2NS sugars; O2NO-, O2NN or O2NS modified
and unmodified oligonucleotides (comprising at least 5 nucleotides, preferably 5-200
nucleotides); O 2NO, O2NN or O 2NS straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated,
aliphatic or aromatic, substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons; and O 2NO, O2NN or
0 2NS heterocyclic compounds. Preferred examples of compounds comprising at least
one O2NO, O2NN or O2NS group include isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide mononitrate,
clonitrate, erythrityl tetranitrate, mannitol hexanitrate, nitroglycerin,
pentaerythrtoltetranitrate, pentrinitrol, propatylnitrate and organic nitrates with a
sulfhydryl-containing amino acid such as, for example SPM 3672, SPM 5185, SPM 5186
and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,284,872, 5,428,061, 5,661,129, 5,807,847 and
5,883,122 and in WO 97/46521, WO 00/54756 and in WO 03/013432, the disclosures of
each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
[0194]    Another group of NO adducts are N-oxo-N-nitrosoamines that donate, transfer
or release nitric oxide and are represented by the formula: RR NN(OM')NO, where Rr
and R    are each independently a polypeptide, an amino acid, a sugar, a modified or
unmodified oligonucleotide, a straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic or
aromatic, substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon, or a heterocyclic group, and where
M' is an organic or inorganic cation, such, as for example, an alkyl substituted
ammonium cation or a Group I metal cation.
[0195]    In combination with the NO donor, the subject can be administered a
therapeutically effective amount of a second compound that potentiates the therapeutic
effect of NO. The second compound can be, for example, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor
(e.g., 2-o-propoxyphenyl-8-azapurin-6-one [Zaprinast      TM
                                                             ], dipyridamole, theophylline,
sildenafil [Viagra TM], or 1,3-dimethyl-6-[2-propoxy-5-methanesulphonylamidophenyl]-

                                               58
pyrazolo[3,4-D]py rimidin-4-[5H]-one) or superoxide dismutase. The second compound
can alternatively be an antithrombotic agent such as ticlopidine, streptokinase, urokinase,
t-PA or an analog thereof (e.g., met-t-PA, RetevaseTM, or FEIX), heparin, hirudin or an
analog thereof (e.g., Hurulog.TM.), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (e.g.,
indomethacin or aspirin), a glucocorticoid (e.g., prednisone), or a cytotoxic agent (e.g.,
methotrexate); or an anti-leukocyte agent such as an anti-leukocyte antibody.
[0196]    Administration of nitric oxide has been used as a prophylaxis and treatment for
ischemia/reperfusion injury. See, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,656,452 and references
cited therein.  Accordingly, it is a further aim of this invention to provide formulations of
hemoglobin based blood substitutes that include a source of NO for treatment of
ischemia-reperfusion injury. In an exemplary embodiment, the blood substitute of the
invention is combined with a NO-donor molecule. The combination can be at the time of
manufacture of the blood substitute or at any point subsequent to the initial manufacture.
For example the invention provides a two-compartment device or two separate
containers. In one compartment or container the blood substitute is stored and in the
second compartment or container an NO-donor molecule is supplied. Prior to
administration to a subject in need thereof, the contents of the two compartments or
containers are mixed and the resulting formulation is administered to the subject.
[0197]    In various embodiments, the formulation of the invention further includes
superoxide dismutase or catalase. These proteins are themselves optionally conjugated to
a water-soluble polymer, e.g., PEG.
[0198]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a formulation of use in
treating, ameliorating, preventing or reducing ischemia/reperfusion injury and/or
oxidative stress to one or more tissue of a subject to whom the formulation is
administered.
[0199]    In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides a kit in which the two (or
more) components are present and stored separately prior to their combination. For
example, in various embodiments the invention provides a device for combining the NO
donor and PEG-Hb formulation. The device includes a first container for collecting or
storing the NO donor; and at least one satellite container in fluid communication with the

                                              59
first container in which the PEG-Hb formulation is stored. In use, a break seal barrier is
interposed between the first and satellite container such that upon rupture of the seal, the
two components of the formulation can be mixed and subsequently administered to a
subject in need thereof. As one of skill will appreciate, equivalents of the device
described are available and fall within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For
example, a kit can include two or more ampoules, each containing an element of the
combination formulation of the invention in liquid or dry form. The contents of the
ampoules can be mixed at an appropriate time and in an appropriate manner prior to the
administration of the combination formulation to a subject in need thereof.
[0200]     In each of the combination formulations set forth above, the PEG-Hb can be
bound to oxygen, carbon monoxide or to neither. The PEG-Hb itself or the entire
formulation can be formulated to be hypotonic, isotonic or hypertonic with respect to the
tonicity of the subject's blood.
Methods of Use
[0201]     There exists a need for a oxygen transfer agent to treat or prevent hypoxia
resulting from blood loss (e.g, from acute hemorrhage or during surgical operations),
resulting from anemia (e.g., pernicious anemia or sickle cell anemia), or resulting from
shock (e.g, volume deficiency shock, anaphylactic shock, septic shock or allergic shock),
myocardial infarct, stroke or traumatic brain injury. Additionally there is a need to
hyper-oxygenate tumors to improve the therapeutic effect of radiation therapy or
chemotherapy. The present invention provides compounds and methods, as exemplified
hereinabove, useful for treating and preventing these and other conditions associated with
blood loss, ischemia or hypoxia, for example.
[0202]     Each of the formulations set forth herein is of use in a variety of methods for the
treatment and prophylaxis of conditions associated with shock, hemorrhage, anemia or
other dysfunctions of the oxygen carrying function of blood. The methods of the
invention are of use to treat or prevent ischemia-reperfusion injury including those caused
by surgery (e.g., transplantation surgery (especially kidney or heart transplantation
surgery) or heart bypass surgery), thrombolysis, stroke, trauma-induced temporary
hypotension, or a vascular interventional procedure such as atherectomy or angioplasty

                                               60
including the use of a laser, balloon, or stent. The methods can be used to treat or prevent
ischemia-reperfusion injury after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. The
injury treated or prevented can occur in any non-pulmonary tissue, including the kidney,
heart, or brain
[0203]    Hypovolemic shock is a particular form of shock in which the heart is unable to
supply enough blood to the body due to blood loss or inadequate blood volume. Loss of
approximately one-fifth or more of the normal blood volume produces hypovolemic
shock. The loss can be from any cause, including external bleeding (from cuts or injury),
gastrointestinal tract bleeding, other internal bleeding, or from diminished blood volume
resulting from excessive loss of other body fluids (such as can occur with diarrhea,
vomiting, bums, and so on). In general, larger and more rapid blood volume losses result
in more severe shock symptoms. In general, patients with milder degrees of shock tend
to do better than those with more severe shock. However, in cases of severe
hypovolemic shock, death is possible even with immediate medical attention. The
elderly are at increased risk of having poor outcomes from shock.
[0204]    In warfare, bullets and penetrating fragments from exploding munitions
frequently cause life threatening hemorrhage. The Life Science Research Office
estimates that exsanguinating hemorrhage was the mechanism of death for up to 50% of
wounded soldiers who perished in past conflicts, and is considered to be the major cause
of death in potentially salvageable battlefield casualties. Hemorrhage from wounded
limbs alone has accounted for nearly one-tenth of all combat deaths, a portion of which
were considered preventable had appropriate pre-hospital care been provided.
[0205]    Anemia is the general term for any condition that develops when the blood is
deficient in healthy red blood cells. Alternatively, there may be sufficient red blood cells
but they are deficient in hemoglobin. Anemia is the most common blood condition in the
U.S affecting about 3.5 million Americans. Women and people with chronic diseases are
at increased risk of the condition. There are more than 400 types of anemia, which can
be broadly classified into three categories: 1) anemia caused by blood loss, 2) anemia
caused by decreased or faulty red blood cell production, or 3) anemia caused by
destruction of red blood cells.

                                               61
[0206]     Regardless of the cause, there are a considerable number of individuals
suffering from some form of clinical oxygen insufficiency that may be ameliorated by the
use of a PEG-Hb formulation. The need for such a product and the commercial
opportunities are almost endless. For example, Sickle cell anemia is the most common
inherited blood disorder in the United States, affecting about 72,000 Americans. It is
particularly painful and debilitating during crises. One can imagine treating these patients
on a monthly basis with a single unit of PEG-Hb to prevent crisis and oxygenate tissues.
This would require 864,000 units of PEG-Hb for this indication alone.
[0207]     When capillaries or larger arteries become occluded, such as by vessel
constriction or solid emboli that block or partially block the blood vessels, the oxygen
supply becomes compromised for tissues that depend on those vessels for oxygen. Tissue
hypoxia results from failure to transport sufficient oxygen, often due to inadequate blood
flow i.e. ischemia. Hypoxia can result from internal hemorrhage (e.g., intracerebral
hemorrhage producing cerebral hypoxia), anemia or trauma. Ischemia is a deficiency of
oxygen supply to the tissue due to functional constriction or actual obstruction of a blood
vessel. For example, myocardial ischemia is a deficiency of oxygen supply to heart
muscle due to obstruction or constriction of the coronary arteries. If ischemia continues
for more than a few seconds, tissue damage can result from a complex series of
biochemical events associated with the ischemia-induced tissue hypoxia.
[0208]     Hypoxic or ischemic conditions produced by emboli can result in tissue damage
that is particularly debilitating if the damaged tissue is heart tissue or neural tissue of the
central nervous system (CNS). The two most serious consequences of emboli are heart
attack (acute myocardial infarct or AMI), resulting from cardiac muscle ischemia, and
stroke, resulting from brain tissue ischemia. Ischemia which does not lead to AMI or
stroke can, nonetheless, produce serious symptoms in the individual such as chest pains
(angina pectoris), partial paralysis, confusion, disorientation and/or memory loss.
[0209]     Individuals with vascular disease, particularly atherosclerosis, are particularly at
risk for developing emboli that can result in AMI or stroke. Ischemic heart disease
affects millions of people worldwide, often leading to sudden death by AMI. Ischemia
can result when solid emboli produced from portions of plaque that dislodge and move

                                               62
through the circulatory system lodge in a capillary or attach to another plaque deposit in a
blood vessel, thus fully or partially occluding the vessel or capillary. Atheromatous
plaque particles can also be generated during vascular and cardiac surgery procedures
(e.g. cannulation, clamping) that manipulate or disturb any atherosclerotic blood vessels
(e.g., carotids, coronaries, aorta, femoral or popliteal vessels).
[0210]     Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of delivering oxygen to a
member selected from tissues and organs of a subject in need of such delivering. In an
exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of any of the invention sufficient to accomplish the delivery of oxygen to
one or more tissue and/or organ. In exemplary embodiments, the method is used to treat
conditions such as hypoxia, ischemia, anemia and sickle cell anemia.
[0211]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of reversing oxygen
debt in a member selected from tissues and organs of a subject suffering from
hemorrhagic shock. In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to
the subject an amount of a composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the
oxygen debt.
[0212]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of inducing
angiogenesis in the tissues of a subject be administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of the invention effective to induce angiogenesis. In exemplary
embodiments, angiogenesis is induced in tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. In
further exemplary embodiments, the tissues or organs in which angiogenesis is induced
are tissues or organs of a subject suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary
embodiment, the method includes administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the oxygen deficiency
[0213]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of increasing blood
flow to tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. The method consists of administering
to the subject an amount of a composition of the invention effective to increase blood
flow to the tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary embodiment, the
tissue or organ is a tissue or an organ of a subject suffering from poor blood flow. In an

                                               63
exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to the subject an amount of a
composition of any of the invention sufficient to reverse the poor blood flow.
[0214]     In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of decreasing
neurological damage and/or infarcted tissue in tissues suffering from oxygen deficiency.
In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes administering to a subject and amount
of a composition of the invention sufficient to decrease neurological damage and/or
infract in the tissue suffering from oxygen deficiency. In an exemplary embodiment, the
method includes administering to the subject an amount of a composition of any of the
invention sufficient to reverse the amount of infracted and or neurologically damaged
tissue.
[0215]     Subjects who can receive the oxygen transfer agent, formed by the methods of
the invention include mammals, such as a human, non-human primate, a dog, a cat, a rat,
a horse or a sheep. Further, subjects, which can receive the oxygen transfer agent
includes fetuses (prenatal subject), post-natal subjects, or subjects at time of birth.
[0216]     A composition of the present invention can be administered into the circulatory
system by injecting the composition directly and/or indirectly into the circulatory system
of the subject, by one or more injection methods. Examples of direct injection methods
include intravascular injections, such as intravenous and intra-arterial injections, and
intracardiac injections. Examples of indirect injection methods include intraperitoneal
injections, subcutaneous injections, such that the oxygen transfer agent will be
transported by the lymph system into the circulatory system or injections into the bone
marrow by means of a trocar or catheter. Preferably, the oxygen transfer agent is
administered intravenously.
[0217]     The subject being treated can be normovolemic, hypervolemic or hypovolemic
prior to, during, and/or after infusion of the composition of the invention. The
composition can be directed into the circulatory system by methods such as top loading
and by exchange methods.
[0218]     A composition of the invention can be administered therapeutically, to treat
hypoxic tissue within a subject resulting from many different causes including reduced

                                               64
RBC flow in a portion of, or throughout, the circulatory system, anemia and shock.
Further, the oxygen transfer agent can be administered prophylactically to prevent
oxygen-depletion of tissue within a subject, which could result from a possible or
expected reduction in RBC flow to a tissue or throughout the circulatory system of the
subject. The compositions of the invention are of use to therapeutically or
prophylactically treat hypoxia.
[0219]       In an exemplary embodiment, the invention provides for the treatment of
illness, injury or insult by administering to a subject an amount of a formulation of the
invention sufficient to provide the treatment. The hemoglobin is in the CO form. In an
exemplary embodiment, this conjugate is formulated in phosphate buffered saline.
[0220]       In various embodiments, the PEG-Hb-CO formulation of the invention is used
to treat ischemia. An exemplary type of ischemia treatable by this formulation is
peripheral ischemia, such as peripheral diabetic ischemia, and the downstream effects of
ischemia. As those of skill will appreciate, the compositions of the invention are of use
in treating other forms of ischemia as well.
[0221]       In various embodiments the invention provides for the treatment of illness,
injury or insult by administering to a subject an amount of a formulation of the invention
sufficient to provide the treatment. The hemoglobin is either deoxygenated or may be in
the CO form and is formulated in a hypertonic salt solution. Exemplary salt
concentrations of use in these formulations are from about 4% to about 8%, from about
4.5% to about 7.5% or from about 5% to about 7%. Exemplary formulations include
about 4%, about 5%, about 6%, about 7% or about 8% salt. In one formulation the salt
concentration is 7.5%. In various embodiments, the salt is NaCl. In various
embodiments, this formulation is used to treat sickle cell anemia, stroke, myocardial
infarct or traumatic brain injury.
[0222]       In exemplary embodiments, the PEG-Hb-CO of the invention are of use to
increase angiogenesis, increase vasodilation, protect heart and kidney from ischemia,
activate mitochondrial KATP channels, decrease endothelial leukocyte adhesion and
infiltration, decrease activation of macrophages and microglia, and/or protect
cerebrovascular vascular reactivity from seizure-induced dysfunction. Accordingly, the

                                              65
invention provides methods of using the compositions of the invention to achieve such
results.
[0223]    Typically, a suitable dose, or combination of doses of oxygen transfer agent of
the invention, is an amount which when contained within the blood plasma will result in a
total hemoglobin concentration in the subject's blood plasma between about 0.1 to about
10 grams Hb/dl, or from about 1 to about 4 grams Hb/dl or more, if required to make up
for large volume blood losses.
[0224]    The composition of the invention can be administered to a subject in any useful
manner. For example, in one embodiment, the composition is administered as a
continuous infusion at a predetermined rate for a predetermined time period. In an
exemplary embodiment, a loading dose of a composition of the invention is administered
over as short of a period as is reasonable. This initial "burst" is followed up by
administration of a second amount of the formulation over at least about 6 hours, at least
about 12 hours, at least about 18 hours or at least about 24 hours. In various
embodiments, the second amount is at least about 60%, at least about 80%, at least about
100% or at least about 120% of the dosage of the initial "burst."
[0225]    Exemplary compositions of the invention include a PEG-Hb conjugate in an
amount of about 3% to about 6%. An exemplary composition includes a PEG-Hb
conjugate in an amount of about 4%.
[0226]    In a broad sense the present invention also provides for the use of a synthetic
hemoglobin-water-soluble polymer conjugate-based oxygen transfer agent in the
manufacture of a medicament for the reoxygenation of hypoxic tissue. The hypoxia may
be due to any insult, injury or disease including, but not limited to surgery, trauma,
ischemia, anemia, myocardial infarct, stroke, shock, diabetes, and traumatic brain injury,
wherein the oxygen carrying medicament is administered systemically to an individual
having or suspected of having one or more tissue with an oxygen deficit.
[0227]    In each of the methods set forth above, the PEG-Hb can be bound to oxygen,
carbon monoxide or to neither. The PEG-Hb itself or the entire formulation can be

                                              66
formulated to be hypotonic, isotonic or hypertonic with respect to the tonicity of the
subject's blood.
[0228]       The following examples are provided to illustrate selected embodiments of the
invention and are not to be construed as limiting its scope.
                                        EXAMPLES
                                        EXAMPLE 1
Purificationof hemoglobin
[0229]     This first step involves washing the blood cells free of plasma. On the bench
scale this was accomplished by repetitive washing, centrifugation and decanting. This
process appears more efficient than the vertical continuous flow centrifuge.
[0230]     The red cells are washed 4x with buffer (1.2% NaCl with 10mM phosphate, pH
7.8). The red cells are then lysed (the hemoglobin is extracted without true cell lysis) by
the slow addition of 1.5 volumes of WFI over a period of 2 hours. The status of lysis
(again, hemoglobin extraction) is monitored by sampling conductivity until it is in the
range of 5.50 - 7.00 pS. . The %Hb is determined using a Radiometer OSM3
Hemoximeter. The Osmolality is also tested and is in the range of 130 - 150 mOsmol.
Once hemoglobin extraction is complete the content is pressure filtered through a 1 pm
cellulose based depth filter, followed by 0.45/0.2pm sterile polysulfone based filter into a
second tank which serves as the reservoir for the next step. The hemoglobin solution is
then pumped through a 300Kd ultrafilter into a jacketed tank at 10 C, which serves as
the initial viral removal step and removes high molecular weight proteins.
[0231]     The hemoglobin is concentrated using a l0KD MWCO system and then
deoxygenated by recirculation through a hollow fiber membrane contactor until the
hemoglobin solution has less than 10% Hb0 2 . A stabilizing agent, cysteine, is added near
the end of the oxygen removal phase to a final concentration of 5 mM. The stabilizing
agent aids in keeping the oxygen level to less than 10% and also acts to protect the
hemoglobin during the heat inactivation phase.

                                                67
Development of a viral inactivation!removal step during hemoglobin production
[0232]    Before the bovine hemoglobin can be used in a product for humans, procedures
are needed to inactivate any potential viral contaminants while maintaining a functionally
active protein biologic. The FDA requires viral inactivation of proteins derived from
animal products. This is accomplished by exposure to 600 C until viral inactivation is
achieved, in this case for 4 hours. The solution is then cooled and 0.45/ 0.2p filtered into
a holding tank. This is purified hemoglobin. The product undergoes QC analysis by
FPLC (single peak), visible spectral analysis (peaks at 540 nm and 577nm), SDS gel
electrophoresis, %Hb, %Hb0 2, %MetHb, pH, osmolality, endotoxin, lipids, and free iron.
[0233]    As described in FIG. 1 mechanically deoxygenated hemoglobin was virally heat
inactivated and this heat inactivated bovine hemoglobin was pure . The heat inactivation
process of the mechanically deoxygenated hemoglobin with the reducing agent added
maintained a low level of MET-Hb (less than 10%), while retaining its integrity, as
evidenced by the chart below (Table 1). Exposure to 600 C for 10 hours had no effect
upon the product in the deoxygenated (deoxy) form (with 5 mM cysteine added), in
relation to %tHb and %METHb. This was not the case for the bovine hemoglobin in the
deoxygenated form without cysteine where approximately 40% of the protein was lost.
    Deoxy Hb + 5 mM         Deoxy Hb without        Hb in CO form + 5       Hb in CO form,
        Cysteine                Cysteinel              mM Cysteine         without Cysteine
   Before     After 10     Before      After 10     Before    After 10   Before      After 10
    600 C       hrs at      600 C       hrs at      600 C       hrs at    600 C       hrs at
                600 C                   600 C                   600 C                 600 C
 tHb=8.3%    tHb=8.7%    tHb=8.8%     tHb=5.2%       tHb=       tHb=   tHb=9.1%     tHb=8.7%
                                                     9.1%       9.1%
  METHb=      METHb=      METHb=       METHb=      METHb=     METHb=    METHb=       METHb=
    0.9%        1.6%        5.9%        2.1%         0.8%       0.7%      6.2%         4.2%
   HbO 2=      HbO 2=      HbO 2=       HbO 2=      HbO 2=     HbO 2=    HbO 2=       HbO 2=
    5.4%        4.4%        6.0%        6.6%         <0%         <0%      4.3%         3.4%
   HbCO=       HbCO=       HbCO=       HbCO=       HbCO=       HbCO=     HbCO=       HbCO=
    3.0%        2.1%        6.0%        6.6%        99.4%      100.8%    89.5%        90.2%
  Table 1: Deoxygenation of hemoglobin stabilizes the product to heat inactivation

                                              68
PEGylation of Hemoglobin
[0234]     Dilution buffer (25 mM sodium phosphate, 120 mM sodium bicarbonate and
4.5% NaCl, pH 8.0) is added to bring the hemoglobin solution to 4-5% concentration.
Hemoglobin is PEGylated using a 17:1 molar ratio of PEG to hemoglobin. The reaction
is maintained at pH 7.6 - 7.8 and the reaction is allowed to proceed for one hour. At this
point one of two processes may be used.
ProcessA
[0235]     15mM cysteine is added to stop the reaction. After storing the solution
overnight at 4' C, the solution will be dialyzed against 20 volumes of buffer (5.0 mM
sodium bicarbonate, 1.0 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride, 4.7 mM
Potassium chloride, 2.5 mM Magnesium sulfate, 0.5 mM Calcium chloride, pH 8.1) using
a 50Kd cutoff membrane. The PEG-Hb is then diluted to 4%Hb, dextrose (5mg/ mL) and
cysteine (5 mM) are added, and the solution is circulated through a hollow fiber
membrane contactor until the %HbO2 is below 10%. The solution is then aseptically
filtered into blood bags. The product will undergo QC analysis by FPLC (single peak),
visible spectral analysis (peaks at 540 nm and 577nm), SDS gel electrophoresis, %Hb,
%HbO2 , %MetHb, pH, osmolality, endotoxin, lipids, and free iron.
ProcessB
[0236]     15 mM cysteine is added to stop the reaction. After storing overnight at 40 C,
the solution is dialyzed against 20 volumes of buffer (5.0 mM sodium bicarbonate, 1.0
mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride, 4.7 mM Potassium chloride, 2.5 mM
Magnesium sulfate, 0.5mM calcium chloride, pH 8.1) using a 50Kd cutoff membrane.
The PEG-Hb is then diluted to 4%Hb, dextrose (5mg/ mL) and L-cysteine (5 mM) are
added, and the solution is placed into the carbon monoxide form by slowly bubbling
carbon monoxide through the solution with constant mixing until the %oxygen is less
than '0' and the carbon monoxide (CO) is at 95% or greater. The solution is then
aseptically filtered into blood bags. The product undergoes QC analysis by FPLC (single
peak), visible spectral analysis (peaks at 540 nm and 577nm), SDS gel electrophoresis,
%Hb, %Hb0 2 , %MetHb, pH, osmolality, endotoxin, lipids, and free iron.

                                              69
[0237]     Furthermore, the heat inactivated hemoglobin was PEGylated, and the resulting
PEG-Hb was pure and active.
[0238]     Over a period of 120 days there was no change in the % Total Hb, % MET-Hb,
%HbCO, and %HbO2 in the sample stored at 37C (FIG 7).
Development of a carbon monoxide form of PEG-Hb
[0239]     The goal of these studies was to develop a carbon monoxide (CO) form of the
PEG-hemoglobin. This form appears to be particularly stable with regard to keeping
%MET-Hb formation low as shown in FIG 7. This is more stable than the mechanically
deoxygenated form.
[0240] Furthermore, a CO form of PEG-Hb was stored at 40 C and only 1.0% was
converted to MET-Hb after 8 weeks storage. This same lot of PEG-Hb in the CO form
has 1.3% MET-Hb after 12 weeks at 40 C. Furthermore, a CO form of PEG-Hb has been
stored at 180 C for 6 weeks was found to include 7.9% MET-Hb, which rises to 16.7%
MET-Hb at the end of 10 weeks at 18' C.
Efficacy of PEG-Hb/HS to reverse oxygen debt
[0241] In preliminary studies to test the activity of our PEG-Hb/HS in oxygenating
tissues, its ability to increase oxygen delivery to tissues and reverse oxygen debt in a
swine model of severe traumatic shock was tested.
[0242] Oxygen debt is a measure of the degree of whole body oxygen consumption that
is below the level required to maintain aerobic metabolism. It is the one physiologic
variable that has been demonstrated to correlate and predict survival, and complications
of organ failure after trauma induced hemorrhagic shock. In the model, animals are
hemorrhaged to a predetermined oxygen debt to reduce variability between animals, so
effects are not dependent on amount of blood loss or endogenous hemoglobin. The model
allows for continuous measurement of oxygen consumption (V0 2), carbon dioxide
production (VCO 2), mixed venous hemoglobin            oxygen saturation (SvO 2 ), arterial
hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SaO 2), oxygen extraction ratio (OER), oxygen debt, heart
rate, blood pressure, cerebral tissue hemoglobin oxygen saturation (StO 2 brain), shoulder
skeletal muscle tissue hemoglobin oxygen saturation (StO 2 Shoulder), cardiac output

                                              70
(CO) as well as measurement of PO 2 in skeletal muscle, liver, intestinal mucosa, oral
mucosa, and kidney.
[0243] In the model, hemorrhage is accompanied by a bilateral hindlimb skeletal muscle
injury and femur fracture to produce combat relevant tissue injury. This type of tissue
injury has been demonstrated to independently affect tissue oxygen delivery and result in
greater reductions in splanchnic blood flow compared to hemorrhage alone. After
skeletal muscle injury and femur injury using a captive bolt, animals are hemorrhaged to
a predetermined oxygen debt of 80 mL/kg. The hemorrhaging to a uniform oxygen debt
insures that all animals have limited variability in their final pretreatment injury and
greatly reduces the variably in the volume removed as opposed to pressure driven
hemorrhages. In these animals, oxygen debt is monitored continuously and cumulatively.
Oxygen debt is based on deviations of V02 below baseline values taken prior to skeletal
muscle injury and is measured every 10 seconds.
[0244] Following the injury, oxygen debt in the animals climbs during hemorrhage. At a
time when 100% of targeted oxygen debt has been reached (80 mL/kg) in the injured
animals, the animal received an infusion of 500 cc of PEG-Hb (PEG-Hb concentration of
4% and hypertonic saline solution of 5-7.5%) over a 15 min period of time (resuscitation
period). After administration of PEG-Hb, oxygen debt rapidly reverses (averaged results
of 4 injured animals). Increases in tissue oxygenation during the resuscitation period
paralleled the changes in oxygen debt and then stabilize over a three hour period.
[0245] In contrast to PEG-Hb, treatment of 2 animals with 500 mL of hetastarch
(Hespan), a standard treatment of trauma patients, produced no reversal of oxygen debt
nor did Oxyglobin, an HBOC product being developed by Biopure as a blood substitute.
These findings are important because first they show that the treatment currently used for
trauma is ineffective in oxygenating tissue and therefore is likely to produce limited
effect in patients undergoing hemorrhagic shock. Secondly, they show that one of the
products which has been tested extensively in humans and failed in clinical trials,
Oxyglobin, failed to oxygenate tissue. The fact that the composition of the invention
reversed oxygen debt clearly indicates the composition of the invention and Biopure's are

                                              71
very different and the potential of PEG-Hb/HS in treating trauma should not be judged
based on the failure of other HBOC's.
[0246] Furthermore, two injured animals treated with 500cc of packed red blood cells
had a reduction in oxygen debt which was expected. However, the magnitude of the
reversal did not appear to be as great as that induced by PEG-Hb. Importantly, even if
the packed red blood cell treatment produced the same effect as PEG-Hb, these results
would support the use of PEG-Hb as a blood substitute since the goal of an HBOC is to
be as effective as blood transfusion.
[0247] In addition to testing for changes in oxygen debt and oxygen delivery to tissues,
we also measured sublingual microcirculation in the hemorrhaged animals as a measure
of reperfusion of tissue after hemorrhage. The functional capillary density was also
qualitatively measured as the total length of all vessels over the viewed area as a measure
of perfusion of the tissues. What is seen is that during hemorrhaging, the capillary
density decreases dramatically. In contrast, the PEG-Hb treatment brings the density
back near to baseline normal levels near the end of the study. This occurs despite the end
hemoglobin level dropping from a baseline of 12.3 g/dl to 7.1 g/dl. As noted, PEG-Hb
infusion enhanced functional capillary density to a greater degree than either Hetastarch
or packed red cells.
                                       EXAMPLE 2
[0248] Rationale: In the murine model of hind limb ischemia induced by femoral artery
ligation, mice with diabetes display significantly impaired restoration of blood flow and
angiogenesis responses compared to non-diabetic animals. In this study, we tested the
hypothesis that administration of Sanguinate would facilitate restoration of blood flow
and angiogenesis.
[0249] Method and Results: C57BL/6 mice at age of 6 weeks were rendered diabetic with
streptozotocin (stz) and at age of 12 weeks were subjected to FA ligation followed by
administration of Sanguinate (20ml/kg/day) via intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection daily for 4
weeks. Vehicle treated diabetic mice received i.p. injection with equal volumes of 1xPBS
daily. Diabetic mice treated with Sanguinate displayed significantly improved blood flow
ratios (ischemia/sham) by laser Doppler analysis on day 28 after FA ligation compared to

                                              72
vehicle treated group (63.36 ± 5.83 vs 44.39 ± 4.13 BFR (%), n>9, p=0.019).
Immunohistochemistry staining with CD31 on the muscle tissue demonstrated
significantly increased microvessel density in diabetic mice treated with SanguinateTM on
days 28 after FA ligation compared to vehicle treated group (663.86 ± 57.78 vs 461.44
                       2
36.19 capillaries/mm , p<0.0001). Taken together, these data reveal significant
therapeutic effects of Sanguinate in diabetic limb ischema in a mouse model and may
provide the basis for the use of this agent as complementary vascular-salvaging therapy
in long-standing diabetes.
[0250] Protocol: C57BL/6 mice were rendered type 1 diabetic with streptozotocin
(multiple low-dose injection). One month after induction of diabetes, the mice were
subjected to unilateral hind limb ischemia.    Blood flow and angiogenesis were monitored
in this study.
[0251] Procedure:The skin incision was made on the upper thigh of the mouse. The left
leg was subjected to the surgical procedure, and the right leg underwent the identical
procedure except the femoral artery ligation was not performed. The inguinal ligament
and the upper half of the femoral artery were exposed. The vascular bundle was ligated
with two sterile 8/0 non-absorbable silk sutures below the inguinal ligament proximally
and just above the bifurcation into the superficial and deep femoral arteries distally. All
arterial and venous branches connected to the isolated segment of femoral vessels were
tied off with 8/0 non absorbable sutures. Finally, the vein and the artery were cut
between proximal and distal ligatures. The skin incision was closed with sterile 5/0
nylon suture.
[0252]     Mouse #s and Groups: Based on our preliminary studies, we began with >15
mice per group to be sure to have sufficient mice at the end of the study and to have
sufficient tissue for analysis.
[0253] The experiments were staggered in order to perform additional vehicle treated
mice.
         Group #1 - Diabetic WT mice + 20 ml/kg/day Sanguinate (IP) beginning
         immediately after femoral artery ligation

                                              73
        Group #2 - Diabetic WT mice + PBS (20 ml/kg/day IP)
[0254] Endpoints
        Laser Doppler Blood Flow Imaging (day 28) Note that blood flow is examined in
        left (injured) and right leg (sham) and then reported as a ratio left/right. The mean
        of values of Diabetes/Sanguinate and Diabetes/PBS is reported.
        -Quantitative assessment of angiogenesis using staining to CD31 and quantitative
        imaging program (day 28) (left leg)
[0255] Data
Endpoint #1: Quantitativeassessment of angiogenesis
[0224]    On day 28, mice were sacrificed and hindlimb skeletal muscle in the distribution
of the femoral artery ligation retrieved and subjected to immunohistochemistry using
anti-cD31 IgG. Serial images were retrieved and image analysis performed to determine
the effects of Sanguinate on angiogenesis:
Group/Treatment                                  Capillaries/mm 2
Sham leg/Vehicle                                 805.60 ± 55.60
Sham leg/DRUG                                    763.40 ± 9.39
Ischemic Leg/Vehicle                             461.44 ± 36.19 *
Ischemic Leg/DRUG                                663.86 ± 57.78**
** indicates p<0.001 Ischemic Leg/Vehicle
* indicates p<0.001 vs. Sham Leg/Vehicle
Endpoint #2: Blood flow recovery
[0224] % Blood Flow Recovery comparing ligated femoral artery limb/contralateral
(Sham) limb was assessed using laser Doppler imaging. In these studies, a ratio is

                                              74
reported between the injured leg and its contralateral sham leg so that the basal vascular
dysfunction is taken into account. The data are as follows:
Group/treatment                                  % Blood flow recovery
Ischemic Leg/Sham VEHICLE                        44.38 ± 12.38
Ischemia Leg/Sham DRUG                           63.36 ± 18.43*
* indicates p=0.0187
[0256] Conclusion
[0257] Administration of Sanguinate to diabetic mice undergoing hind limb ischemia,
induced by femoral artery ligation, results in significant improvement in quantification of
angiogenesis when compared to findings using vehicle. Administration of Sanguinate to
diabetic mice undergoing hind limb ischemia, induced by femoral artery ligation,
significantly improves blood flow recovery as measured by Laser Doppler imaging when
compared to vehicle (PBS) treatment.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
[0258] The effect of transfusion of PEGylated CO-hemoglobin (PEG-COHb) was
evaluated in anesthetized rats subjected to 2 hours of focal cerebral ischemia and 1 day of
reperfusion. PEG-Hb was stored in the carboxy state (PEG-COHb) to provide a source of
CO and reduce autooxidation and increase the shelf life. Transfusion of 10 ml/kg of PEG
COHb at 20 minutes of ischemia did not alter arterial blood pressure or increase red cell
flux in the ischemic core. Plasma hemoglobin increased to only 0.6 g/dL, yet infarct
volume was markedly decreased and neurological deficits were improved.        Early topload
transfusion of PEG-COHb protects the brain from ischemic stroke.
Surgicalpreparation
[0259] All procedures were approved by the Johns Hopkins University Animal Care and
Use Committee. Anesthesia was induced in male Wistar rats (250-350 g) with 5%

                                               75
isoflurane and maintained with approximately 2% isoflurane via nose cone with
spontaneous ventilation during surgery. Isoflurane concentration was decreased to
approximately 1.5% after surgery. Inspired     02  was approximately 25-30%. Catheters
were inserted into a femoral vein for transfusion and into a femoral artery for measuring
arterial blood pressure and sampling arterial blood. A heating lamp was used to maintain
rectal temperature during ischemia and early reperfusion. A small incision was made in
the scalp and a small burr hole was made in lateral parietal bone until only a thin amount
of bone remained. A 1-mm diameter fiberoptic probe was secured against the thinned
bone. The probe was connected to a laser-Doppler flowmeter which transmits and
receives near-infrared light and calculates relative changes in red blood cell flux. The
laser-Doppler flux signal was used to assess the adequacy of vascular occlusion during
the ischemic period.
[0260] Transient focal cerebral ischemia was induced by the intraluminal filament
technique to occlude blood flow into the middle cerebral artery. The right common
carotid artery was exposed through a lateral incision and occluded. The right external
carotid artery was dissected and ligated and the occipital artery branch of the external
carotid artery was isolated and coagulated. The proximal pterygopalatine artery branch
of the right internal carotid artery was ligated, and a 4-0 monofilament nylon suture (with
the tip rounded) was advanced approximately 2 cm into the internal carotid artery. The
filament position was adjusted to produce at least a 60% reduction in the laser-Doppler
flux signal. After two hours of occlusion, reperfusion was begun by withdrawing the
intraluminal suture. After monitoring for the first 30 min of reperfusion, catheters were
removed, incisions were closed with suture, and anesthesia was discontinued.
ExperimentalDesign
[0261] PEG-albumin and PEG-COHb were synthesized at Prolong Pharmaceuticals
(South Plainfield, New Jersey). Surface lysine residues on purified bovine Hb were
conjugated with 5000 molecular weight PEG. The PEG-Hb solution was bubbled with
CO to convert >80% of the PEG-Hb to PEG-COHb before storage. Solutions containing
4-6% protein were stored at 2-10 0 C in sterile blood bags. Three groups of 10 rats were
studied: 1) no transfusion, 2) bovine PEG-albumin transfusion, and 3) bovine PEG-

                                              76
COHb transfusion. On the day of the experiment, an aliquot of the solution was warmed
and transfused as a topload equivalent to 10 ml/kg body weight. The transfusion started
at 20 min of MCAO. The rate of intravenous transfusion was 0.5ml/min and occurred
over approximately 5-7 min. Mean arterial pressure and the percent change in laser
Doppler flow was recorded at 15-min intervals during 2 h of MCAO and 30 min of
reperfusion. Rectal temperature was monitored through 1 h of reperfusion as the animals
recovered from anesthesia in a warm environment. Arterial blood (~0.7 ml) was sampled
at baseline, 1 h of MCAO, and 30 min of reperfusion. Arterial blood pH, PCO 2 , P0 2, and
electrolytes were measured on a Radiometer blood gas analyzer (ABL80). Arterial Hb
concentration, 02 saturation, MetHb, and COHb were measured on a Radiometer
Hemoximeter (OSM3). Plasma from the samples was analyzed for Hb concentration.
The rats were assessed for neurologic deficits at 1 and 24 h of reperfusion on a 0-4 scale
(0 = no deficit, 1   failure to extend forelimb during placing, 2 = circling, 3= unilateral
weakness, and 4     no spontaneous motor activity). At 24 h, the brain was harvested to
measure infarct volume. The brain was divided into 7 coronal sections (2 mm thick).
The sections were stained with a 1% solution of triphenyltetrazolium chloride, which
stains viable regions red. The pale, nonviable areas of cerebral cortex and striatum were
measured on the anterior and posterior surfaces of each section. The infarct volume of
each section was calculated from the product of the section thickness and the average of
the infarct area on the anterior and posterior surfaces. Total infarct volume for cortex and
striatum was obtained by summing the volume from each section. Values are expressed
as a percent of the entire structure. Measurements were compared among the 3 groups by
ANOVA and the Newman-Keuls multiple range test at the 0.05 level of significance.
Data are presented as mean ± SE.
Results
[0262] Arterial pH, PCO 2 , and PO 2 remained stable and in the physiologic range during
MCAO and early reperfusion in all groups of rats (Table 1). There were no significant
differences among the groups transfused at 20 min of MCAO. Electrolyte concentrations
remained similar among the groups after transfusion (Table 2). As expected with a
topload protein transfusion, small decreases in hematocrit occurred (Table 3).

                                           77
Table 1. Arterial pH and blood gases during and after 2 h of middle cerebral artery
occlusion
(MCAO) in groups with no transfusion or transfusion at 20 min of MCAO (mean ± SE; n
= 10)
Baseline 60 min MCAO 30 min reperfusion
pH                     Baseline               60 min MCAO           30 min Reperfusion
No transfusion         7.40 ± 0.01            7.41 ± 0.01           7.41 ± 0.01
PEG-Abumin             7.41 ± 0.01            7.41 ± 0.01           7.39 ± 0.01
PEG-COHb               7.39 ± 0.01            7.40 ± 0.01           7.39 ± 0.01
PCO 2 (mm Hg)
No transfusion         45.0 ±0.9              43.0± 1.0             43.6± 1.1
PEG-Albumin            42.0 ± 1.1             42.5 ± 0.7            45.4 ± 0.5
PEG-COHb               43.7 ± 0.8             44.3 ± 1.4            44.3 ± 2.0
P0 2 (mm Hg)
No transfusion         120 ±3                 123 ±5                 124± 3
PEG-Albumin            124 ±2                 123 ±3                 119± 4
PEG-COHb               128 ±4                 122 ±6                 125± 7
Base Excess
No transfusion         1.6 ±0.5               1.5 ±0.6               1.7 ±0.4
PEG-Albumin            1.4 ±0.3               2.1 ±0.4               1.9 ±0.3
PEG-COHb               0.3 ± 0.6              1.4 ± 0.4              1.3 ± 0.3

                                             78
Table 2. Arterial blood electrolytes during and after 2 h of MCAO in groups with no
transfusion or transfusion at 20 min of MCAO (mean ± SE; n = 10)
                               Baseline         60 min MCAO        30 min reperfusion
Na* (mM)
  No transfusion              138.4 ±0.6          140.2± 1.1            141.0 ±0.8
  PEG-Albumin                 140.2 ± 0.5         138.2 ± 0.5           138.3 ± 0.6
  PEG-COHb                    142.0 ± 0.8         141.4 ± 0.4           142.7 ± 0.7
K+ (mM)
  No transfusion               4.1 ± 0.1            4.5 ± 0.2            4.0 ± 0.1
  PEG-Albumin                  4.1 ±0.1             4.1 ±0.1             4.0 ±0.1
  PEG-COHb                     4.0 ±0.1             4.1 ±0.1             4.3 ±0.1
Ca2+ (mM)
  No transfusion              1.36 ± 0.04         1.23 ± 0.06           1.20 ± 0.05
  PEG-Albumin                 1.53 ± 0.26         1.34 ± 0.02           1.30 ± 0.05
  PEG-COHb                    1.28 ± 0.04         1.24 ± 0.02           1.21 ± 0.03
Cl- (mM)
  No transfusion              100.2 ± 0.7         100.7 ± 1.5           101.6 ± 0.7
  PEG-Albumin                 102.8 ± 1.0         101.7 ± 0.5           101.1 ± 0.5
  PEG-COHb                    104.0 ± 1.0         102.0 ± 0.6           102.5 ± 0.7

                                            79
Table 3. Whole blood hemoglobin analysis during and after 2 h of MCAO in groups with
no transfusion or transfusion at 20 min of MCAO (mean ± SE; n     10)
                              Baseline         60 min MCAO        30 min reperfusion
Hematocrit (%)
  No transfusion                37 ± 1             37 ± 1
  PEG-Albumin                   38 ±1              34 ±1
  PEG-COHb                      36 ±1              33 ±1
Hemoglobin (g/dL)
  No transfusion              12.5 ± 0.3         11.7 ± 0.3            12.1 ± 0.3
  PEG-Albumin                 12.5 ± 0.2         11.2 ± 0.4            11.2 ± 0.3
  PEG-COHb                    11.7 ±0.3          11.1 ±0.3             11.1 ±0.6
Arterial 02 content (ml O2/dL)
  No transfusion              16.0 ± 0.3         15.3 ± 0.3            16.3 ± 0.4
  PEG-Albumin                 16.3 ± 0.2         14.4 ± 0.4            14.1 ± 0.7
  PEG-COHb                    14.9 ± 0.7         14.8 ± 0.6            14.4 ± 0.7
MetHb (%)
  No transfusion               1.0 ±0.1           0.9 ±0.1              0.7 ±0.1
  PEG-Albumin                 0.9 ± 0.1           0.9 ± 0.1             0.9 ± 0.1
  PEG-COHb                    0.7 ± 0.1          1.6   0.2*            1.5   0.1*
COHb (%)
  No transfusion              0.6 ±0.1            0.5   0.1             0.3   0.3
  PEG-Albumin                 0.5 ± 0.1           0.4   0.1             0.2   0.1
  PEG-COHb                    0.6 ± 0.1          2.3   0.2*            2.3   0.1*
* P < 0.05 from PEG-Albumin
[0263] However, there were no significant differences in hematocrit or whole blood Hb
concentration in the PEG-COHb-transfused group compared to the PEG-albumin-

                                              80
transfused group. The percents of MetHb and COHb in whole blood were slightly
elevated after transfusion of PEG-COHb (Table 3). Analysis of plasma Hb at 60 min of
MCAO (about 35 min after completing the PEG-COHb transfusion) indicated
concentrations of 0.6 ± 0.1 g/dL (±SE), and the level remained relatively unchanged at 30
min of reperfusion. The percent of COHb in the plasma Hb was in the 11 ± 4% at 60 min
of MCAO and 6 ± 1% at 30 min of reperfusion. Values for mean arterial blood pressure
are shown in FIG. 3A. Although there was tendency for pressure to increase slightly
during prolonged MCAO in the PEG-COHb group, the values were not significantly
different among groups at any time point. Laser-Doppler flow was monitored over the
lateral cortex where ischemia is most dense. Values are displayed in FIG. 3B. In all
groups, flow decreased to approximately 25% of baseline initially and increased slightly
over time to approximately 30% of baseline. With reperfusion, flow was restored to
approximately 80% of baseline in all groups. There were no significant differences
among groups at any time point. Rectal temperature was maintained in the range of
36.5-37.0 'C during ischemia and at 1 h of reperfusion after the rats awoke from
anesthesia. Moreover, the rats did not display fever at 24 h. After awakening from
anesthesia, neurologic deficit scores were similar among groups (FIG. 4). However, upon
retesting at 24 h, neurologic deficit scores improved selectively in the PEG-COHb group.
Values for infarct volume at each coronal level and total infarct volumes are shown in
FIG. 5. Infarct volume was similar in the group without transfusion and the group
transfused with PEG-albumin. Infarct volume was significantly reduced in the group
transfused with PEGCOHb compared to either the non-transfused or PEG-albumin group.
In the PEG-COHb group, infarct volume was reduced by 82% in cortex and 56% in
striatum relative to the PEG-albumin group (FIG. 6). The reduction in infarct volume
was present in each of the 5 most anterior slices, thereby indicating that tissue rescue was
widespread over the entire middle cerebral artery distribution area.
Discussion
[0264] The degree of tissue rescue by PEG-COHb topload transfusion during transient
focal cerebral ischemia is substantially greater than that reported with hypervolemic
exchange transfusion with au-crosslinked Hb in rats or polymeric Hb in mice. This

                                              81
finding is remarkable because the plasma Hb concentration attained with the 10 ml/kg
topload was 0.6 g/dL, which is considerably less than the 2-2.5 g/dL typically attained
with 30-40% exchange transfusion of fluids containing 6 g/dL of Hb. Moreover,
increasing the plasma concentration of au-crosslinked Hb further by increasing the
concentration of Hb in the transfusion fluid from 10 g/dL to 20 g/dL produces additional
reductions in infarct volume. These comparisons suggest that PEG-COHb may be
superior per mole of heme compared to au-crosslinked Hb and polymeric Hb in rescuing
the brain from stroke. The results indicate that large plasma concentrations of PEGylated
COHb are not required to rescue the brain. The theoretical advantage of exchange
transfusion is that whole blood viscosity can be reduced by decreasing hematocrit and
thereby promote collateral blood flow. The advantage of the topload over the exchange
transfusion is that this protocol would be easier to implement in clinical stroke and the 10
ml/kg volume is readily tolerated without producing marked hypervolemic-induced
hypertension. Significant hypertension was not observed in the present study. Rescue by
the PEG-COHb did not appear to be related to an increase in blood flow in the ischemic
core of cortex as assessed by laser-Doppler flowmetry at a single site. However, it is
possible that collateral blood flow was improved in the ischemic border region sufficient
to salvage tissue. The viscosity of the PEGylated Hb solution is closer to that of whole
blood compared to solutions of crosslinked and polymeric Hb and thus may better
maintain endothelial shear stress and associated NO production, which could help
maintain dilation of collateral arteries.
[0265] The 10-ml/kg topload transfusion of PEG-albumin and PEG-COHb produced
approximately 8-10% decreases in hematocrit. This relatively small decrease in
hematocrit will have only a small effect on blood viscosity and is unlikely to improve
perfusion sufficiently to reduce brain injury by reducing blood viscosity. The lack of a
difference in infarct volume between the group transfused with PEG-albumin and the
group with no transfusion in this study and in a previous study with greater hemodilution
support this premise. Moreover, the increase in plasma [Hb] to 0.6 g/dL after PEG
COHb topload was inadequate to offset the decrease in hematocrit. Thus, whole blood
[Hb] and arterial 02 content were not increased by PEG-COHb transfusion. However,
even in the absence of an increase in arterial 02 content or blood flow, an 02 carrier in

                                                82
the plasma may be capable of enhancing       02  delivery to ischemic tissue for several
reasons. First, oxygen solubility in plasma is low and represents a major site of
resistance of  02  diffusion between the red cell and mitochondria in the tissue. By
carrying a large amount of    02 in the plasma,   02 transport from the red cell membrane to
the endothelium is facilitated. In this regard, efficacy of transfusion of Hb polymers
during MCAO is lost when the solution primarily contains polymers of molecular weight
greater than 14 MDa. The current bovine PEG-Hb with approximately 8-10 side chains
of 5000 molecular weight PEG appears to represent a good balance of being small
enough to have high mobility for facilitating     02 transport in the plasma but large enough
to limit extravasation. Second, red cell flux through individual microvessels is
heterogeneous and this heterogeneity is amplified under conditions of low perfusion
pressure during incomplete ischemia. By delivering       02  through the flow of plasma in
capillaries that are red cell deprived, 02  delivery may become more homogenous among
capillaries. Third, red cells are particulate and their surface area does not cover the entire
surface area of capillary endothelium at any one instant. An       02 carrier in the plasma
increases the effective surface area for  02  diffusion. Therefore, a topload infusion of
cell-free Hb could invoke several mechanisms of 02 delivery independent of bulk arterial
02  content and macroscopic blood flow.
[0266]       All publications and patent documents cited in this application are
incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each
individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted. By their citation
of various references in this document, Applicants do not admit any particular reference
is "prior art" to their invention.

                                             83
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.         A composition, comprising functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin, said
composition comprising:
              a. a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of functional,
                  native hemoglobin molecules wherein said group of hemoglobin
                  molecules the group of hemoglobin molecules;
                       i. is in a deoxygenated state;
                      ii. is free of chemical cross-linking agents; and
                     iii. has a P50 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg;
              b. a water-soluble stabilizer fraction maintaining said group of
                      hemoglobin molecules in said deoxygenated state, said stabilizer
                      fraction comprising, a stabilizing agent comprising a structural
                      element more reactive with oxygen than said deoxygenated
                      hemoglobin molecules; and
              c.  an aqueous diluent fraction comprising, a pharmaceutically acceptable
                      diluent in which said hemoglobin fraction and said stabilizer
                      fraction are soluble,
                    said composition being essentially free of viral activity, and
                          comprising less than 10% methemoglobin.
2.          The composition according to claim 1 wherein Fe (II) of the deoxygenated
hemoglobin molecules is bound to neither oxygen nor carbon monoxide.
3.          The composition according to any preceding claim wherein Fe (II) of the
deoxygenated hemoglobin molecules is bound to carbon monoxide.
4.          The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
deoxygenated hemoglobin molecules are capable of transferring said bound carbon
monoxide to tissue with which said deoxygenated hemoglobin is in contact.
5.          The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said stabilizing
agent comprises an amine, such as an amino acid.

                                               84
6.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said amino acid
is cysteine.
7.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said diluent
fraction comprises a salt.
8.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said salt is
sodium chloride.
9.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said salt is
present in an amount sufficient to render said composition a member selected from
isotonic and hypertonic.
10.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
hemoglobin fraction consists essentially of non-crosslinked bovine hemoglobin.
11.           The composition according to any preceding claim, said composition
comprising less than 5% methemoglobin.
12.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein each member of
said group of said hemoglobin molecules is covalently conjugated to at least one
molecule of poly(ethylene glycol).
13.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said at least one
poly(ethylene glycol) molecule is covalently conjugated through an amine moiety of an
amino acid residue of said hemoglobin molecules.
14.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said amino
acid residue is a lysine residue and said at least one poly(ethylene glycol) molecule is
covalently conjugated to an c-amine moiety of said lysine residue through a bond which
is a member selected from an amide and a urethane.
15.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said water
soluble hemoglobin fraction comprises less than 10% methemoglobin.

                                                85
16.            The composition according any preceding claim, wherein said composition
is virally inactivated.
17.            A composition comprising a covalent conjugate between a functional, native
hemoglobin molecule and at least one molecule of poly(ethylene glycol), said
composition comprising:
                 a. a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of
                     hemoglobin molecules wherein each member of said group of
                     hemoglobin molecules;
                           i. is deoxygenated;
                          ii. is covalently conjugated to at least one molecule of said
                              poly(ethylene glycol) through an amine moiety of an amino
                              acid residue;
                         iii. is free of chemical cross-linking agents; and
                         iv. has a P50 of from about 9 mm Hg to about 12 mm Hg;
                 b. a water-soluble stabilizer fraction rendering said group of hemoglobin
                          molecules oxidation resistant, said fraction comprising, a
                          stabilizing agent comprising a structural element more reactive
                          with oxygen than said group of hemoglobin molecules; and
                 c.  a diluent fraction comprising, a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent in
                          which said hemoglobin fraction is soluble,
                        said composition being essentially free of viral activity, and
                              comprising less than about 10% methemoglobin.
18.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein each member of
said group of hemoglobin molecules is covalently conjugated to five or more of said
poly(ethylene glycol) moiety through said amine moiety of five or more of said amino
acid residue.
19.            The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said amine
moiety of said amino acid residue is an c-amine moiety of a lysine residue.

                                               86
20.         The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
hemoglobin molecule is bound to a member selected from oxygen and carbon monoxide.
21.         The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
hemoglobin molecule is capable of transferring a member selected from said bound
oxygen and said bound carbon monoxide to a tissue with which said hemoglobin is in
contact.
22.         A hemoglobin composition comprising water-soluble, functional, native
hemoglobin, said composition prepared by a method comprising:
               a.  submitting a solution of deoxygenated hemoglobin and a stabilizing
                   agent to a thermal viral inactivation process comprising, exposing said
                   solution to a temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate essentially
                   all viral activity in said solution, said exposing being for a time
                   sufficient to achieve said inactivation of essentially all viral activity in
                   said solution,
                        said stabilizing agent comprising a structural element more
                              reactive with oxygen than said deoxygenated hemoglobin in
                              said solution, thereby minimizing oxygen binding by said
                              deoxygenated hemoglobin,
                        said solution comprising an amount of said stabilizing agent
                              sufficient to prevent formation of more than about 10%
                              methemoglobin in said thermal viral deactivation process.
23.         The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared by
said method, further comprising (b), prior to step (a), deoxygenating a solution of
oxygenated hemoglobin, thereby forming said solution of said deoxygenated hemoglobin.
24.         The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared by
said method, further comprising (c), prior to step (a), forming said solution of said
deoxygenated hemoglobin with said stabilizing agent.

                                             87
25.           The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared by
said method in which said stabilizing agent is present in step (a) in an amount sufficient
to prevent formation of more than about 5% methemoglobin.
26.           The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared by
said method in which said temperature is about 60 0C.
27.           The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared by
said method in which said time is about 10 hours.
28.           The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, said
deoxygenating producing a deoxygenated hemoglobin molecule bound to neither oxygen
nor carbon monoxide.
29.           The hemoglobin composition of according to any preceding claim, said
deoxygenating producing a deoxygenated hemoglobin molecule bound to carbon
monoxide.
30.           The hemoglobin composition according to any preceding claim, prepared
by said method further comprising:
               d. contacting said virally inactivated hemoglobin solution of step (a) with
                   an activated poly(ethylene glycol) molecule of reactivity
                   complementary to an amino acid residue of said hemoglobin, thereby
                   forming a covalent conjugate between poly(ethylene glycol) and
                   hemoglobin molecules in said solution.
31.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
hemoglobin molecule is bound to a member selected from oxygen and carbon monoxide.
32.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said
hemoglobin molecule is capable of transferring a member selected from said bound
oxygen and said bound carbon monoxide to a tissue.

                                               88
33.           A hemoglobin composition comprising water-soluble, functional, native
hemoglobin, said composition comprising less than 10% methemoglobin, said
composition prepared by a method comprising:
              a. heating a precursor hemoglobin solution to about 60 0C for about 10
                     hours, said precursor solution comprising a stabilizing agent
                     comprising a structure more reactive with oxygen than said
                     hemoglobin molecules in said solution, thereby minimizing oxygen
                     binding by said deoxygenated hemoglobin and, thereby forming said
                     composition.
34.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said stabilizing
agent is an amino acid.
35.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said stabilizing
agent is cysteine.
36.           The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein said method
further comprises,
              b. contacting said virally inactivated hemoglobin solution of step (a) with
                     an activated poly(ethylene glycol) molecule of reactivity
                     complementary to an amino acid residue of said hemoglobin, thereby
                     forming a covalent conjugate between poly(ethylene glycol) and
                     hemoglobin molecules in said solution.
37.           A composition at about 60 0 C, said composition comprising a water-soluble
fraction, said fraction comprising functional, deoxygenated, native hemoglobin, said
fraction comprising less than 10% methemoglobin.
38.           A method of preparing a virally inactivated composition, comprising water
soluble, functional, native hemoglobin, said composition comprising:
                 a. a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of functional,
                     native hemoglobin molecules wherein each member of said group of
                     hemoglobin molecules;

                                                89
                          i. is in a deoxygenated state;
                         ii. is free of chemical cross-linking agents; and
                        iii. has a P50 of from about 22 mm Hg to about 26 mm Hg;
                b. a water-soluble stabilizer fraction maintaining said group of
                         hemoglobin molecules in said deoxygenated state, said stabilizer
                         fraction comprising, a stabilizing agent comprising a structural
                         element more reactive with oxygen than said deoxygenated
                         hemoglobin molecules; and
                c.  a diluent fraction comprising, a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent in
                         which said hemoglobin fraction is soluble,
                       said composition being essentially free of viral activity, and
                             comprising less than 10% methemoglobin;
              said method comprising:
                i. submitting a solution of deoxygenated hemoglobin and said stabilizing
                    agent to a thermal viral inactivation process comprising, exposing said
                    solution to a temperature elevated sufficiently to inactivate essentially
                    all viral activity in said mixture, said exposing being for a time
                    sufficient to achieve said inactivation of essentially all viral activity in
                    said mixture.
39.           The method according to any preceding claim, said method further
comprising:
contacting said virally inactivated hemoglobin solution of step (a) with an activated
poly(ethylene glycol) molecule of reactivity complementary to an amino acid residue of
said hemoglobin, thereby forming a covalent conjugate between poly(ethylene glycol)
and hemoglobin molecules in said solution.
40.           A composition comprising a covalent conjugate between a functional,
deoxygenated, native hemoglobin molecule and at least one molecule of poly(ethylene
glycol), said composition comprising:

                                               90
                a. a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of
                     hemoglobin molecules wherein each member of said group of
                     hemoglobin molecules;
                          i. is deoxygenated and bound to CO;
                         ii. is covalently conjugated to at least one molecule of said
                             poly(ethylene glycol) through an amine moiety of an amino
                             acid residue;
                        iii. is free of chemical cross-linking agents; and
                        iv. has a P50 of from about 9 mm Hg to about 12 mm Hg;
                b. a water-soluble stabilizer fraction rendering said group of hemoglobin
                         molecules oxidation resistant, said fraction comprising, a
                         stabilizing agent comprising a structural element more reactive
                         with oxygen than said group of hemoglobin molecules; and
                c.   a diluent fraction comprising, a phosphate buffered saline diluent in
                         which said hemoglobin fraction is soluble,
                   said composition being essentially free of viral activity, and comprising
                         less than about 10% methemoglobin.
41.           A composition comprising a covalent conjugate between a functional,
deoxygenated, native hemoglobin molecule and at least one molecule of poly(ethylene
glycol), said composition comprising:
                a. a water-soluble hemoglobin fraction comprising a group of
                     hemoglobin molecules wherein each member of said group of
                     hemoglobin molecules;
                          i. is deoxygenated and is not bound to CO;
                         ii. is covalently conjugated to at least one molecule of said
                             poly(ethylene glycol) through an amine moiety of an amino
                             acid residue;
                        iii. is free of chemical cross-linking agents; and
                        iv. has a P50 of from about 9 mm Hg to about 12 mm Hg;

                                               91
                b. a water-soluble stabilizer fraction rendering said group of hemoglobin
                         molecules oxidation resistant, said fraction comprising, a
                         stabilizing agent comprising a structural element more reactive
                         with oxygen than said group of hemoglobin molecules; and
                c.   a diluent fraction comprising, a hypertonic saline diluent in which said
                         hemoglobin fraction is soluble,
                   said composition being essentially free of viral activity, and comprising
                         less than about 10% methemoglobin.
42.           The composition according to any preceding claim wherein said hypertonic
saline diluent includes NaCl at a concentration of from about 3% to about 7%.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 1
                                      1/7

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 2
                                      2/7

                                                                                               3/7
<removed-date>
              A                                     120
                                                    100
                                                     80
              MABP (mmHg)
                                                     60                 No Transfusion
                                                                        PEG-Albumin
<removed-apn>
                                                     40                 PEG-COHb
                                                     20
                                                      0
                                                            0      30     60      90     120    150
              B 140
               Laser-Doppler Flux (% of baseline)
                                                    120
                                                    100
                                                     80
                                                     60
                                                     40
                                                     20
                                                      0
                                                            0      30     60      90     120    150
                                                                         Time (min)
                                                          MCAO Transfusion               Reperfusion
              FIGURE 3

                                                                                             4/7
<removed-date>                                4                        No Transfusion
                                                                    PEG-Albumin
                                                                    PEG-COHb
              Neurological Deficit Score
                                           3
                                                                                         *
<removed-apn>
                                           2
                                           1
                                           0
                                               1 hour                          24 hour
                                                        Duration of Reperfusion
              FIGURE 4

                                                                                                                                               5/7
<removed-date>
              A                                               No Transfusion Cortex         B                                                No Transfusion Striatum       C                                                    No Transfusion
                                                              PEG-Albumin Cortex                                                             PEG-Albumin Striatum                                                               PEG-Albumin
                                                              PEG-COHb Cortex                                                                PEG-COHb Striatum                                                                  PEG-COHb
                                     100                                                                   100                                                                                                   100
              Infarct Volume (% of cortex)                                                                                                                                    Infarct Volum e (% of Structure)
                                                                                            Infarct Volume (% of striatum)
                                             80                                                                              80                                                                                  80
                                             60                                                                              60                                                                                  60
                                             40                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                             * * *                                                               40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *
<removed-apn>
                                                             * * * *
                                             20                                                                              20                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                            *                                                              *
                                             0      *                                                                         0                                                                                    0
                                                    1     2    3    4     5   6       7                                             1     2    3    4     5   6        7                                               Cortex      Striatum
                                                         Coronal Section Number                                                          Coronal Section Number
                                                  Anterior                      Posterior                                         Anterior                        Posterior
              FIGURE 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 6
                                      6/7

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 7
                                      7/7

