ABSTRACT
Presented are one or more aspects and/or one or more embodiments of catalysts,
methods of preparation of catalyst, methods of deoxygenation, and methods of fuel
production.

            CATALYSTS, METHODS OF PREPARATION OF CATALYST, METHODS OF
                   DEOXYGENATION, AND SYSTEMS FOR FUEL PRODUCTION
      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
      [0001]     The present application claims benefit of U.S. Patent Application S/N
  5   61/424,043, Docket No. ETI-003, titled "CATALYSTS, METHODS OF PREPARATION
      OF CATALYST, METHODS OF DEOXYGENATION, AND METHODS OF FUEL
      PRODUCTION," to Thien Duyen Thi NGUYEN and Krishniah PARIMI, filed 12/16/2010.
      The present application is related to: U.S. Patent Application Docket No. ETI-004US1,
      titled "CATALYSTS AND METHODS OF PREPARATION OF CATALYST," to Thien
 10   Duyen Thi NGUYEN and Krishniah PARIMI, filed 12/16/2011; U.S. Patent Application
      Docket No. ETI-004US2, titled "METHODS OF DEOXYGENATION AND METHODS
      OF FUEL PRODUCTION," to Thien Duyen Thi NGUYEN and Krishniah PARIMI, filed
      12/16/2011. The contents of all of these applications and/or patents are incorporated
      herein in their entirety by this reference for all purposes.
15   [0001A] This application is a divisional of Australian application No. <removed-apn>,
     which in turn is a divisional of Australian application No. 2011343489 filed on 16
     December 2011 and claiming priority from US 61/424,043. Australian application No.
     2011343489 is the national phase entry of PCT application PCT/US2011/065620 which
     was published as WO 2012/083236. The entire contents of each of these publications is
20   hereby incorporated by reference.
     BACKGROUND
     [0002]     Catalysts are extensively used in a variety of industrial processes. Because of
     the diversity of the types of processes, there are many types of catalysts. The present
     inventors have made one or more discoveries pertaining to catalysts, methods of
25   making catalysts, and methods of using catalysts.
     [0003]     An example of one of the areas in which these discoveries may be applicable
     is the use of renewable feedstocks for producing transportation fuels such as for green
    energy technologies that seek to use bio-oils to replace petroleum feedstock for fuels.
    Bio-oils are advantageous raw fuel feedstocks because they are easy to obtain and
30  therefore enable fuel cost stabilization and provide energy autonomy. Bio-oils are a
                                                     1

      renewable resource with significant environmental benefits. First, nitrogen and sulfur
      organic compounds occur much less in bio-oil feedstocks as compared to petroleum
      fuels, so less harmful NOx & SOx emissions will be produced when biofuels are used.
      Second, C02 emissions during the use of biofuels is offset by the plants which need the
  5   C02 to  grow, hence it is commonly referred to as carbon neutral.
     [0004]      There is a need for improved catalysts, improved methods of preparing
     catalysts, methods of deoxygenation, and/or processes for applications such as, but not
     limited to, the production of fuel from renewable feedstocks.
 10
     SUMMARY
     [0005]      One or more aspects of this invention pertains to catalysts. One aspect of
     the invention is a catalyst. According to one embodiment, the catalyst comprises a
 15  porous substrate and an electrolessly deposited catalytically effective metal coating
     having a nanoscale thickness.
     [0006]      Another aspect of the invention is a method of making a catalyst. According
    to one embodiment, the method comprises providing a porous substrate, providing a
20  solution that comprises a metal for electroless deposition (ELD), mixing the substrate
    with the solution, controlling the temperature of the mixture of the substrate and the
    solution, and ramping the temperature while adding a reducing agent incrementally or
    continuously so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the metal as a
    catalytically active stable nanoscale coating of the substrate.
25
    [0007]      Another aspect of the invention is a method of deoxygenation. According to
    one embodiment for deoxygenating oxygenated hydrocarbons, the method comprises
    providing a catalyst comprising a porous substrate and an electrolessly deposited
    catalytically effective nanoscale metal coating on the substrate and contacting the
30  catalyst with the oxygenated hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to accomplish
    hydrogenation and deoxygenation wherein the deoxygenation is accomplished
    preferentially by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
                                                  2

     [0008]     Another aspect of the invention is a system for producing fuel from
     feedstocks such as bio-oil. According to one embodiment, the system comprises a
     deoxygenation stage, the deoxygenation stage comprises at least one deoxygenation
  5  reactor chamber and a catalyst, and the catalyst comprises a porous substrate and an
     electrolessly deposited metal coating having a nanoscale thickness. The system
     further comprises a hydrocracking and isomerization stage comprising at least one
     hydrocracking and isomerization reactor and a hydrocracking and isomerization
     catalyst. The hydrocracking and isomerization stage is configured to receive the liquid
 10  hydrocarbons from the deoxygenation stage and hydrogen. The hydrocracking and
     isomerization stage operates at conditions to convert the liquid hydrocarbons from the
     deoxygenation stage into gasoline, diesel fuel, and/or aviation/jet fuel.
     [0009]     It is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the
 15 details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the
    following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being
     practiced and carried out in various ways. In addition, it is to be understood that the
     phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and
    should not be regarded as limiting.
20
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0010]      Figure 1 is a magnified image of a catalyst according to one embodiment of
    the present invention.
25  [0011]      Figure 1-1 is a typical Arrhenius plot for one or more embodiments of the
    present invention.
    [0012]     Figure 1-2 is a graph showing Camelina oil composition.
    [0013]     Figure 1-3 is gas chromatographic data of deoxygenated liquid product
    according to one or more embodiments of the present invention.
30  [0014]     Figure 2 is a flow diagram according to one or more embodiments of the
    present invention.
                                                   3

      [0015]      Figure 3 is a flow diagram for an example according to one or more
     embodiments of the present invention.
     [0016]       Figure 4 is a flow diagram according to one or more embodiments of the
     present invention.
  5  [0017]       Figure 5 is a flow diagram according to one or more embodiments of the
     present invention.
     [0018]       Skilled artisans appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for
     simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the
 10  dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other
     elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.
     DESCRIPTION
 15  [0019]       For the following defined terms, these definitions shall be applied, unless a
     different definition is given in the claims or elsewhere in this specification. All numeric
    values are herein defined as being modified by the term "about," whether or not
     explicitly indicated. The term "about" generally refers to a range of numbers that a
     person of ordinary skill in the art would consider equivalent to the stated value to
20   produce substantially the same properties, function, result, etc. A numerical range
     indicated by a low value and a high value is defined to include all numbers subsumed
    within the numerical range and all subranges subsumed within the numerical range. As
    an example, the range 10 to 15 includes, but is not limited to, 10, 10.1, 10.47, 11, 11.75
    to 12.2, 12.5, 13 to 13.8, 14, 14.025, and 15. The term "nanoscale" is defined as
25  having at least one dimension less than 100 nanometers. The term "porous substrate"
    is defined as a pore structure that results in an equivalent surface area for the porous
    substrate in the range of 50 - 1500 square meters per gram (m2/g) of the porous
    substrate as measured by a technique such as the Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET)
    technique or an analogous technique. In other words, the porosity of the substrate is
30  specified by the equivalent surface area for the porous substrate.
                                                    4

      [0020]     Information about the fundamentals of electroless deposition is available in
     the scientific and patent literature. The following documents are incorporated herein in
     their entirety, for all purposes, by this reference: M. Paunovic and M. Schlesinger
     "Fundamentals of Electrochemical Deposition," Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons
  5   Incorporated, Pennington, New Jersey, 2006; and US Patent 7,514,353.
     [0021]      One aspect of the present invention encompasses a catalyst. Another aspect
     of the invention encompasses methods of making catalysts. Another aspect of the
     invention encompasses methods of using catalysts for applications such as, but not
 10  limited to, deoxygenation of compounds. Another aspect of the invention encompasses
     methods of making carbon-based fuels such as, but not limited to, jet fuel, gasoline,
     and diesel fuel using feedstocks derived from sources such as, but not limited to, plants
     and other renewable sources.
 15  CATALYSTS
     [0022]      One aspect of the present invention is a catalyst such as for promoting one or
     more chemical reactions. Catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the
     present invention comprise a porous substrate and one or more metals dispersed on
20  and/or within the substrate including surfaces forming the pores of the substrate. The
     metal is or can be made to be catalytically active. According to one embodiment of the
    present invention, the metal is an electrolessly deposited catalytically effective metal
    coating having a nanoscale thickness. This means that for one or more embodiments
    of the present invention, the metal is deposited electrochemically by electroless
25  deposition.
    [0023]      According to one embodiment of the present invention, the porous substrate
    has a surface area equivalent of 50-1500 m2/g. According to one or more other
    embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate has a surface area
30  equivalent in the range of 50-100 m2/g. According to one or more other embodiments
    of the present invention, the porous substrate has a surface area equivalent in the
    range of 100-300 m2/g. According to one or more other embodiments of the present
                                                    5

     invention, the porous substrate has a surface area equivalent in the range of 300-900
     m2/g. According to one or more other embodiments of the present invention, the
     porous substrate has a surface area equivalent in the range of 900-1500 m2/g.
  5  [0024]     A variety of substrates can be used for one or more embodiments of the
     present invention. Examples of suitable substrates for embodiments of the present
     invention include, but are not limited to, activated carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal
    foam, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or
     combinations thereof. Optionally, substrates for one or more embodiments of the
 10  present invention may be granular or pelletized.
     [0025]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the
    substrates have low levels of impurities that could interfere with the activity of the
    catalysts. For example, activated carbon substrates preferably have low metal content
 15 and low ash content for some embodiments of the present invention. The impurity
    levels of some activated carbon can be reduced by an acid wash of the substrate prior
    to preparation of the catalyst.
    [0026]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the
20  substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. According to another embodiment of the
    present invention, the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide and the catalytic metal
    is present in the pores.
    [0027]     The catalyst is substantially stable during the preparation processes, during
25  the activation processes if applicable, and during extended periods of use as a catalyst.
    For one or more embodiments of the present invention, the substrates are porous.
    [0028]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the catalyst
    comprises one or more metals such as, but not limited to, palladium (Pd), nickel (Ni),
30  chromium (Cr), molybdenum (Mo), tungsten (W), iron (Fe), ruthenium (Ru), osmium
    (Os), cobalt (Co), rhodium (Rh), iridium (Ir), platinum (Pt), zinc (Zn), silver (Ag), copper
    (Cu), gold (Au), or mixtures thereof. Optionally, the catalyst may be configured as a
                                                    6

     single metal catalyst, as a bi-metallic catalyst, or as a tri-metallic catalyst. For
     embodiments of the present invention that have two or more metals, optionally the
     metals may be mixed so that they form an alloy such as palladium and nickel in an
     alloy. Alternatively, the elements may be present as substantially pure elements.
  5
     [0029]     According to one embodiment of the present invention, the metal comprises
     palladium formed as nanoscale palladium deposited on the substrate surfaces
     including, but not limited to, the surfaces of pores. Metals other than palladium may be
     used in the catalytic materials for one or more embodiments of the present invention.
 10  Substrates for one or more embodiments of the present invention include activated
     carbon such as coconut activated carbon.
     [0030]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the metal is
     electrolessly deposited using electroless deposition processes so that the metal is
15   substantially free of electroless deposition impurities. In one or more embodiments of
    the present invention, metal deposition is electroless deposition accomplished with
     reducing agents such as, but not limited to, hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids with
     up to 6 carbon atoms, or mixtures thereof. According to one embodiment of the present
    invention, the metal deposition is accomplished with hydrazine incrementally or
20  continuously added during the deposition so that the reducing agent input is distributed.
    [0031]      According to one embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the
    metal is less than 15% by weight. According to another embodiment of the present
    invention, the loading of the metal is less than 5% by weight. According to yet another
25  embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the metal is less than 1% by
    weight.
    [0032]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the catalyst
    is catalytically active for deoxygenation of molecules such as oxygenated
30  hydrocarbons. An exceptional and unexpected property of catalysts according to one
    or more embodiments of the present invention is that one or more of the catalysts are
    catalytically active for preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and
                                                   7

      decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation. Preferential deoxygenation by
      decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation is defined as greater
      than or equal to 60% of oxygen is removed from oxygenated hydrocarbon as carbon
      dioxide and carbon monoxide and less than or equal to 40% of the oxygen is removed
  5   as water at all levels of deoxygenation.
      [0033]     According to another embodiment of the present invention, the catalyst is
     catalytically active so as to be capable of preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation
     and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones,
 10  carboxylic acids, phenolics, esters, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and
     decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation. Catalysts according to one or more
     embodiments of the present invention are capable of hydrogenation and preferential
     deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
     hydrodeoxygenation.
 15
     [0034]     According to another embodiment of the present invention, the metal
     comprises palladium, the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide with the metal
     present therein, and the catalyst is active for deoxygenation of triglycerides. According
     to another embodiment of the present invention, the catalyst is catalytically active for
20   hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and
    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation so that the ratio of odd carbon number
     molecules to even carbon number molecules in the deoxygenated product is about 6:1.
    This ratio is typically less than one for other deoxygenation technologies.
25  [0035]      Another embodiment of the present invention is a catalyst for deoxygenating
    bio-oils for fuel production. The catalyst comprises a substrate comprising activated
    carbon in granular form with size in the range of 0.5 mm to 3 mm. The substrate has
    pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. The catalyst comprises an electrolessly deposited
    catalytically effective palladium or nickel coating having nanoscale thickness disposed
30  on the surfaces of the pores. The palladium or nickel loading for the catalyst is less
    than about 2% by weight. Optionally, the metal comprises palladium grains about 15
    nanometers wide.
                                                   8

     [0036]      One or more embodiments of the present invention comprises a catalyst
     produced by one or more of the catalyst synthesis processes provided in the present
     disclosure. More specifically, one or more embodiments of the present invention
     encompass a product by process. One or more methods of preparing catalysts,
  5  according to embodiments of the present invention, produces catalysts having unique
     properties such as, but not limited to, morphology, particle size, particle distribution, and
     chemical reactivity.
     [0037]      Catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
 10  can be made using the exemplary processes presented below. Catalysts according to
     one or more embodiments of the present invention are made using electroless
    deposition processes that include one or more steps such as, but not limited to,
     improving bath stabilization, distributing the introduction of reducing agent, and ramping
    the temperature of the plating bath. According to one or more embodiments of the
15   present invention, the distributed introduction of the reducing agent is coupled with the
     ramping of the temperature. One or more embodiments of the present invention are
    the first instance of electroless deposition of nanoscale palladium coatings on activated
    carbon. The catalyst is stable and effective for reactions such as deoxygenation.
20  [0038]      Prior to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the present
    inventors are not aware of electroless plating of palladium as having been
    demonstrated on granular carbon substrates or other high porosity substrates. Using
    electroless deposition according to one or more embodiments of the present invention,
    deoxygenation catalyst is produced with suitable palladium particle size and distribution
25  in the pore structure of the substrate to enable effective deoxygenation of bio-oils at
    even very low metal loading. These results are exceptional and unexpected.
    [0039]      Catalysts produced according to one or more embodiments of the present
    invention have suitable palladium distribution within the pore structure of the substrate
30  to enable high catalytic activities under low metal loading. Deposition of palladium on a
    substrate according to one or more embodiments of the present invention may be
                                                   9

    achievable in shorter time as compared to conventional deposition methods such as
    incipient wetness impregnation.
    [0040]      Reference is now made to Figure 1 where there is shown a magnified image
 5  of a catalyst according to one embodiment of the present invention. The surface is
    magnified 100,000 X. The catalyst comprises a substrate of activated carbon and a
    coating of electrolessly deposited palladium using an exemplary process presented
    below. A group of the particles was vacuum encapsulated in epoxy and then sectioned
    using standard metallographic materials and procedures. The resulting sectioned
10  specimens were then examined, first by conventional scanning electron microscopy
    (SEM). The first examination suggested that there had been extensive penetration into
    and deposition of palladium. The second examination Field Emission SEM showed that
    almost all interior surfaces were coated with palladium. Palladium was present in
    islands that sometimes coalesce, but are often still discontinuous. The islands vary
15  greatly in size, but appear to consist of grains about 15 nm across. The islands were
   also present on the deep interior surface of the particles.
   [0041]      Catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
   were tested. The catalyst had from 0.5% to 5% palladium loading. The catalyst
20 showed very little effect of catalytic metal loading on deoxygenation activity (see Table
    1). As shown in Figure 1-1, the catalyst was found to be very active for deoxygenation
   activity with activation energy of about 54 kcal/g-mole for deoxygenation of Camelina
   oil. The activation energy is typical of active zeolite based hydrocracking catalysts.
25 [0042]      For one or more embodiments of the present invention, the specific
   substrate-active metal combination appears to promote decarbonylation of plant oils in
   preference to hydrodeoxygenation in removing oxygen from the oil molecule. This is
   highly advantageous in process design for applications such as converting plant oils to
   biofuels and is an exceptional and unexpected result.
30
   [0043]      When oxygen is removed as oxides of carbon, the product molecule will have
   one less carbon. For example, C1 8 molecule will become C1 7. Camelina oil, as
                                                 10

          shown in Figure 1-2, has C16, C18, C20, C22, and C24 molecules, all even numbered.
          Figure 1-3 is a gas chromatograph (GC) trace showing the composition of
         deoxygenated product produced according to one or more embodiments of the present
         invention. As the gas chromatograph shows, odd number carbon atoms dominate to
    5    the extent the ratio of odd and even number atoms is about 6 to 1. In contrast to the
         results obtained using embodiments of the present invention, data reported for other
         processes show that the ratio of odd to even number carbon species is in the range
        from 0 to 1.
  10    METHOD OF MAKING CATALYSTS
        [0044]      Another aspect of the invention is a method of making a catalyst. Reference
        is now made to Figure 2 where there is shown a flowchart for synthesis of catalysts
        according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. According to one
 15     embodiment, the method comprises 12 providing a porous substrate and 14 providing a
        solution that comprises a metal for electroless deposition. The method further
        comprises 16 mixing the substrate with the solution and 18 controlling the temperature
        of the mixture of the substrate and the solution. Also, the method comprises 20
       ramping up the temperature of the mixture while adding a reducing agent incrementally
 20    or continuously so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the metal as a
       catalytically active nanoscale coating of the substrate. The controlled deposition
       includes control of the rate of deposition of the metal and control of the location of the
       deposited metal. According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the
       deposition rate is controlled by the distributed addition of the reducing agent in
25     combination with the controlled ramping up of the temperature so as to allow the rate of
       mass transfer to allow more thorough distribution of the metal through the porous
      substrate for the metal deposition. According to one or more embodiments of the
      present invention, the reducing agent is added continuously or incrementally during
      most or all of the duration of the electroless deposition of the metal.
30
      [0045]      According to one embodiment of the present invention, the method includes
      using a porous substrate having a surface area equivalent of 50-1500 m2/g. According
                                                     11

          to one or more other embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate has a
          surface area equivalent in the range of 50-100 m2/g. According to one or more other
          embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate has a surface area
          equivalent in the range of 100-300 m2 /g. According to one or more other embodiments
    5     of the present invention, the porous substrate has a surface area equivalent in the
          range of 300-900 m2/g. According to one or more other embodiments of the present
         invention, the porous substrate has a surface area equivalent in the range of 900-1500
         M 2/g.
  10     [0046]      A variety of substrates can be used for methods of making catalysts
         according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Examples of suitable
         substrates for embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to,
        activated carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal foam, silica, silica-alumina, zeolites,
        titania, zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof. Optionally,
 15     substrates for one or more embodiments of the present invention may be granular or
        pelletized.
        [0047]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
       includes using a substrate having pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. According to another
 20    embodiment of the present invention, the method includes depositing metal into
       substrate pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide.
       [0048]       According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
      comprises electrolessly depositing one or more metals such as, but not limited to,
25    palladium, nickel, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt,
      rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, silver, copper, gold, or mixtures thereof. Optionally,
      the catalyst may be produced as a single metal catalyst, as a bi-metallic catalyst, or as
      a tri-metallic catalyst. For embodiments of the present invention that have two or more
      metals, optionally the metals may be mixed so that they form an alloy or the elements
30    may be present as substantially pure elements. The deposition of two or more metals
      may be done as co-deposition or as sequential deposition of the metals.
                                                     12

         [0049]     According to one embodiment of the present invention, the method
         comprises electroless deposition of palladium formed as nanoscale palladium
         deposited on the substrate surfaces including, but not limited to, the surfaces of pores.
    5    [0050]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the metal is
         electrolessly deposited using electroless deposition processes so that the metal is
         substantially free of electroless deposition impurities. In one or more embodiments of
        the present invention, the method electrolessly deposited metal using reducing agents
        such as, but not limited to, hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids with up to 6 carbon
  10    atoms, or mixtures thereof. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the
        method comprises adding hydrazine incrementally or continuously during the deposition
        so that the reducing agent input is distributed over most or all of the duration of the
        deposition.
  15    [0051]     According to one embodiment of the present invention, the method includes
        electroless deposition to accomplish a metal loading of less than 15% by weight.
       According to another embodiment of the present invention, the method includes
       electroless deposition to accomplish a metal loading of less than 5% by weight.
       According to yet another embodiment of the present invention, the method includes
 20    electroless deposition to accomplish a metal loading of less than 1% by weight.
       [0052]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
      further comprises sensitizing the substrate prior to electroless deposition such as by,
       but not limited to, exposing the substrate to a sensitizing solution, exposing the
25    substrate to a solution comprising a dissolved metal, and/or exposing the substrate to a
      tin chloride solution.
      [0053]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
      further comprises activating the substrate prior to electroless deposition such as by, but
30    not limited to, exposing the substrate to an activating solution, exposing the substrate to
      a solution comprising a dissolved metal, and/or exposing the substrate to a palladium
      chloride solution.
                                                     13

           [0054]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
          further comprises sensitizing the substrate prior to electroless deposition by exposing
          the substrate to a tin chloride solution followed by activating the substrate by exposing
          the substrate to a palladium chloride solution.
    5
          [0055]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
          uses a substrate that comprises activated carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal foam,
          silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or
          combinations thereof and electrolessly deposits metal that comprises chromium,
  10      molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum,
         zinc, copper, gold, silver, or mixtures thereof using a reducing agent that comprises
         hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids having 1-6 carbon atoms, or mixtures thereof.
         [0056]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
 15      comprises providing a substrate that comprises granular activated carbon, exposing the
        substrate to a tin chloride solution so as to sensitize the activated carbon for electroless
        deposition, and exposing the substrate to a palladium chloride solution so as to activate
        the activated carbon for electroless deposition. The method also includes providing a
        solution of palladium for electroless deposition and mixing the substrate with the
 20     solution. The method further includes controlling the temperature of the mixture of the
        substrate and the solution and ramping up the temperature while adding hydrazine
        incrementally or continuously so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the
       palladium as a catalytically active nanoscale coating of the activated carbon.
25     [0057]       According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method
       comprises providing a substrate that comprises granular activated carbon, exposing the
      substrate to a tin chloride solution so as to sensitize granular activated carbon for
      electroless deposition, and exposing the substrate to a palladium chloride solution so
      as to activate the granular activated carbon for electroless deposition. The method also
30    includes providing a solution of nickel for electroless deposition and mixing the
      substrate with the solution. The method further includes controlling the temperature of
      the mixture of the substrate and the solution and ramping up the temperature while
                                                         14

         adding hydrazine incrementally or continuously so as to cause controlled electroless
         deposition of the nickel as a catalytically active nanoscale coating of the granular
         activated carbon.
    5    Example 1: Catalyst Preparation - Palladium on Activated Carbon
        [0058]       Figure 3 shows a flowchart of the steps for preparing the catalysts of the
        present example. Steps 101 to 104 constitute substrate preparation and are described
        as follows: Step 101: 14 grams of coconut activated carbon (CAC) in granular form
  10    with size in the range of 1.6 mm to 0.8 mm were measured using an analytical balance.
        Step 102: The CAC was placed in aluminum weighing dish and placed in a vacuum
        oven. The oven temperature was raised and maintained at 125 OC. The CAC was
        baked for 12 hours. Step 103: Nitrogen gas was vented into the vacuum oven to reach
       atmospheric pressure. The CAC sample was taken out of oven and immediately
  15   weighed on the analytical balance to obtain the actual weight of the CAC without
       moisture. Step 104: The CAC sample was placed in glass beaker with a magnetic
       stirrer and mixed with 50 ml of 0.2 N HCI acid for 30 minutes. The CAC sample was
       filtered from the acid solution.
 20    [0059]       Steps 105 to 108 constitute substrate sensitizing and activation and are
       described as follows: Step 105: In the sensitizing glass beaker, 125 ml of 0.2N HCI
       was mixed with 0.125 g SnC 2 until the particles are fully dissolved using the magnetic
       stirrer. In the activation glass beaker, 125 ml of 0.2 N HCI was mixed with 0.01125 g
       PdCl 2 until the particles were fully dissolved using the magnetic stirrer. The CAC
25    sample was put into the sensitizing beaker and mixed for 5 minutes. The CAC sample
      was filtered from the sensitizing solution. Step 106: The CAC sample was mixed in
      500 ml of deionized (DI) H20 for 10 minutes. The CAC sample was filtered from the DI
      H20. Step 107: The CAC sample was put into the activation beaker and mixed for 5
      minutes. The CAC sample was filtered from the activation solution. Step 108: The
30    CAC sample was mixed in 500 ml of deionized (DI) H20 for 10 minutes. The CAC
      sample was filtered from the DI H2 0.
                                                     15

          [0060]     Steps 109 to 112 constitute plating of Pd on an activated carbon substrate
          and are described as follows: Step 109: In a glass beaker for plating solution, 70 ml of
          28% NH40H, 30 ml DI H2 0, 0.54 g of PdCl 2 , and 4 g Na2EDTA were mixed with a
          magnetic stirrer until the plating solution was fully dissolved. The temperature of the
    5    water bath of the Rotovap was raised to 40 C; 0.1 ml of 35% N2H4 was added to the
         plating solution and mixed. The plating solution was combined with the CAC sample in
         a flask attached to the water bath in the Rotovap. The rotation was adjusted to evenly
         distribute the CAC in the plating solution.
  10     [0061]     After 10 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution and the
        temperature was increased to 45 0C while the plating solution and CAC were
        continually mixed. After 20 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
        and the temperature was increased to 50 0C while the plating solution and CAC were
        continually mixed. After 30 minutes, the rotovap rpm was reduced to zero, the water
  15    heating bath was turned off and the plating flask was removed.
        [0062]      The Pd deposited CAC was filtered from the plating solution. Step 110: The
        CAC sample was mixed in 500 ml of deionized (DI) H20 for 30 minutes. The Pd
       deposited CAC sample was filtered from the DI H20. The Pd deposited CAC sample
 20    was mixed in 500 ml of demonized DI H2 0 for 30 minutes. The Pd deposited CAC
       sample was filtered from the DI H2 0. Step 111: The Pd deposited CAC was placed in
       an aluminum weighing dish and placed in a vacuum oven. The vacuum pump was
       turned on and a vacuum of 25 inches of Hg was maintained in the vacuum oven. The
       oven temperature was raised and maintained at 125 C. The Pd deposited CAC was
25     baked for 12 hours. Step 112: Nitrogen gas was vented into the vacuum oven until
      atmospheric pressure was reached. The Pd deposited CAC sample was taken out of
      the oven and immediately weighed on the analytical balance to obtain the actual weight
      of Pd deposited CAC without moisture. The weight difference between step 112 and
      step 103 represents the quantity of Pd deposited onto 14 grams of coconut activated
30    carbon.
      [0063]       Methods of making catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the
                                                       16

         present invention may comprise using other granular, pelletized, or structured
        substrates derived from ceramics or metal. Methods according to one or more
        embodiments of the present invention may comprise using a structured substrate such
        as monolith or metal foam for various applications.
   5
        Example 2: Catalyst Preparation - Palladium on Alumina
        [0064]      Extrudated gamma-alumina substrate material was crushed using a ceramic
        mortar and pestle and sifted to obtain particles in the size range of 1.6 mm to 0.8 mm.
  10   An analytical balance was used to measure 14 grams of this gamma alumina substrate.
       The gamma alumina was baked in a vacuum oven for 12 hours and the dry weight of
       the gamma alumina substrate was obtained from the analytical balance. The gamma
       alumina was hydrated by being exposed to steam for 2 hours to minimize gamma
      alumina decrepitation prior to the sensitizing step.
 15
      [0065]       In the sensitizing glass beaker, 125 ml of 0.2N HCI was mixed with 0.125 g
      SnC12 until the particles were fully dissolved using a magnetic stirrer. In the activation
      glass beaker, 125 ml of 0.2 N HCI was mixed with 0.01125 g PdCl2 until the particles
      were fully dissolved using a magnetic stirrer.
 20
      [0066]      The gamma alumina sample was put into a sensitizing beaker and mixed for
      5 minutes. The gamma alumina sample was filtered from the sensitizing solution. The
      gamma alumina sample was mixed in 500 ml of DI H2 0 for 2 minutes. The gamma
     alumina sample was filtered from the DI H20. The gamma alumina sample was put into
25   an activation beaker and mixed for 5 minutes. The gamma alumina sample was filtered
     from the activation solution. The gamma alumina sample was mixed in 500 ml of
     deionized DI H20 for 2 minutes. The gamma alumina sample was filtered from the DI
     H20. The gamma alumina was put back into the sensitizing beaker and mixed for 5
     minutes, filtered, and rinsed in DI H20 for 2 minutes and filtered. The gamma alumina
30   was put back into the activation beaker and mixed for 5 minutes, filtered, and rinsed in
     DI H2 0 for 2 minutes and the gamma alumina was filtered out.
                                                    17

     [0067]      In a glass beaker for plating solution, 70 ml of 28% NH40H, 30 ml DI H2 0,
     0.54 g of PdCl2 , and 4 g Na2 EDTA were mixed until the plating solution was fully
     dissolved. The temperature of water bath of Buchi Rotovap was raised to 40 C. 0.1
     ml of 35% N2H4 was added to the plating solution and mixed well. The plating solution
  5  and gamma alumina sample was combined in a flask and attached to the water bath in
     the Buchi Rotovap. The rotation was adjusted to evenly distribute the gamma alumina
     in the plating solution. After 10 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating
     solution and the temperature was increased to 45      OC while the plating solution and
     gamma alumina were continually mixed. After 5 minutes, the rotovap rpm was reduced
10   to zero, the water-heating bath was turned off, and the plating flask was removed. The
     Pd deposited gamma alumina was filtered from the plating solution.
     [0068]      The Pd deposited gamma alumina sample was mixed in 500 ml of demonized
     (Di) H20 for 10 minutes. Pd deposited gamma alumina sample was filtered from the DI
15   H2 0. Pd deposited gamma alumina was placed in aluminum weighing dish and placed
     in a vacuum oven. The vacuum pump was turned on and a vacuum of 25 inches of Hg
    was maintained in the vacuum oven. The oven temperature was raised and maintained
     at 125  OC.  The Pd deposited gamma alumina was baked for 12 hours.
20   [0069]      Nitrogen gas was vented into the vacuum oven to reach atmospheric
     pressure. The Pd deposited gamma alumina sample was taken out of oven and
     immediately weighed on the analytical balance to obtain the actual weight of the Pd
    deposited gamma alumina without moisture. The weight difference before and after Pd
    plating represents the quantity of Pd deposited onto 14 grams of gamma alumina.
25
     Example 3: Catalyst Preparation - Nickel on Activated Carbon
    [0070]       Twenty-two grams of coconut activated carbon in granular form with size in
    the range of 1.6 mm to 0.8 mm were measured using analytical balance. The CAC was
30  placed in aluminum weighing dish and placed in vacuum oven. The vacuum pump was
    turned on and a vacuum of 25 inches of Hg was maintained in the vacuum oven. The
    oven temperature was raised and maintained at 125 *C. The CAC was baked for 12
                                                   18

     hours. Nitrogen gas was vented into vacuum oven to reach atmospheric pressure. The
     CAC sample was taken out of oven and immediately weighed on the analytical balance
     to obtain actual weight of CAC without moisture.
  5  [0071]      The CAC sample was placed in glass beaker with a magnetic stirrer and
     mixed with 60 ml of 0.2 N HCI acid for 5 minutes. The CAC sample was filtered from
     the acid solution. The above rinse was repeated 4 more times, each time with a new
     60 ml of 0.2 N HCI.
 10  [0072]      In the sensitizing glass beaker, 185 ml of 0.2N HC was mixed with 0.375 g
     SnCl 2 until the particles were fully dissolved. In the activation glass beaker, 185 ml of
     0.2 N HCl was mixed with 0.0341 g PdCl 2 until the particles were fully dissolved using a
     magnetic stirrer. The CAC sample was put into a sensitizing beaker and mixed for 5
     minutes. The CAC sample was filtered from the sensitizing solution. The CAC sample
 15 was mixed in 500 ml of deionized (Di) H20 for 5 minutes. The CAC sample was filtered
    from the DI H2 0.
     [0073]     The CAC sample was put into an activation beaker and mixed for 5 minutes.
    The CAC sample was filtered from the activation solution. The CAC sample was mixed
20  in 500 ml of deionized (DI) H20 for 10 minutes. The CAC sample was filtered from the
     DI  H2 0.
    [0074]       In a glass beaker for plating solution, 53 ml of 28% NH4OH, 90 ml Dl H2 0,
    0.8102 g of NiCl 2, and 6 g Na2EDTA was mixed with a magnetic stirrer until the plating
25  solution was fully dissolved. The temperature of a 1000 ml beaker water bath was
    raised to 60    OC using an IKA magnetic stirrer hot plate. 0.1 ml of 35% N2H4 was added
    to the plating solution and mixed well.
    [0075]      The CAC sample was put into a 250 ml beaker and the 250 ml beaker was
30  suspended into the IKA controlled water bath using rubber spacers at the top of the
    water bath beaker. Mixing for the water bath was achieved by magnetic stirrer. Mixing
    for the plating beaker was achieved with an IKA overhead stirrer equipped with Teflon
                                                   19

     lined shaft and propellers (one marine propeller and one turbine propeller). The plating
     beaker also contained 3 Teflon baffles attached together and oriented 120 degrees
     apart. The plating solution was poured into a 250 ml beaker containing the CAC
     sample. The IKA mixer rpm was adjusted in the range of 200-400 in order to evenly
  5  distribute the CAC in plating solution.
     [0076]      After 10 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to plating solution and the
    temperature was increased to 650 C while the plating solution and CAC were
     continually mixed. After 13 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
 10  and the temperature was increased to 700 C while the plating solution and CAC were
    continually mixed. After 10 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
    and the temperature was increased to 750 C while the plating solution and CAO were
    continually mixed. After 14 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
    and the temperature was increased to 790 C while the plating solution and CAC were
 15 continually mixed. After 5 minutes, one drop of N2 H4 was added to the plating solution
    and the temperature was increased to 79.5 0C while the plating solution and CAC were
    continually mixed. After 5 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
    and the temperature was increased to 80     0C while the plating solution and CAC were
    continually mixed. After 5 minutes, one drop of N2H4 was added to the plating solution
20  and the temperature was increased to 82     OC while the plating solution and CAC were
    continually mixed. After 5 minutes, the rpm was reduced to zero, the water bath
    heating was turned off, and the plating flask was removed. The Ni deposited CAC was
    filtered from the plating solution.
25  [0077]      The CAC sample was gently mixed in 100 ml of deionized (DI) H20 for 5
    minutes. The Ni deposited CAC sample was filtered from the DI H20. A 100 ml water
    rinse was repeated as many times as necessary until the pH of the rinse solution
    reached 7. The Ni deposited CAC sample was filtered from the DI H2 0.
30  [0078]      The Ni deposited CAC was placed in aluminum weighing dish and placed in a
    vacuum oven. The vacuum pump was turned on and a vacuum of 25 inches of Hg was
    maintained in the vacuum oven. The oven temperature was raised and maintained at
                                                 20

      125  O*C. The Ni deposited CAC was baked for 12 hours.
     [0079]      Nitrogen gas was vented into vacuum oven to reach atmospheric pressure.
     The Ni deposited CAC sample was taken out of oven and immediately weighed on the
  5  analytical balance to obtain the actual weight of Ni deposited CAC without moisture.
     The weight difference before and after the plating step represents the quantity of Ni
     deposited onto 22 grams of coconut activated carbon.
     METHODS OF DEOXYGENATION
 10
     [0080]      Another aspect of the invention is a method of deoxygenation.
     Deoxygenation can occur by three mechanisms, which include hydrodeoxygenation
     where oxygen is mostly removed as H20, decarbonylation where oxygen is mostly
     removed as CO, and decarboxylation where oxygen is mostly removed as C02.
 15  Conventional hydroprocessing methods and catalyst used in deoxygenation will result
     in high hydrogen consumption and high water production.
     [0081]      One or more embodiments of the present invention comprises using one or
     more catalysts as described above. The selected catalyst is suitable for applications
20  such as, but not limited to, hydrogenation, and deoxygenation of oxygenated
     hydrocarbons such as components of bio-oils. According to one or more embodiments
    of the present invention, the catalysts have properties so that there is low or minimal
    undesirable by-product formation. Optionally, one or more embodiments of the present
    invention comprises using granular catalysts with low metal loading; the catalysts are
25  effective for reactions such as, but not limited to, hydrogenation and deoxygenation of
    organic materials such as, but not limited to, bio-oils. One or more embodiments of the
    present invention include using a reactor with the granular catalyst in a packed bed, the
    reactor and packed bed are arranged to operate in continuous multiphase flow mode.
30  [0082]       According to one embodiment of the present invention for deoxygenating
    hydrocarbons, the method comprises providing a catalyst that comprises a porous
    substrate and an electrolessly deposited catalytically effective nanoscale metal coating
                                                  21

         on the substrate. The method also includes contacting the catalyst with the oxygenated
         hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to accomplish hydrogenation and deoxygenation
         wherein the deoxygenation is accomplished preferentially by decarbonylation and
         decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
    5
         [0083]    According to one embodiment of the present invention, the method
         accomplishes a ratio of decarbonylation to decarboxylation of about 6:1. In other
         words, the method includes generating 6 times more carbon monoxide than carbon
        dioxide for the deoxygenation. These results are extraordinary in comparison to the
  10    results of other processes. Others have reported that the primary removal of oxygen is
        by production of carbon dioxide and/or water. Unlike embodiments of the present
        invention, other processes appear to have low production of carbon monoxide.
        [0084]     The results of the present invention are even more extraordinary because the
  15    high production levels of carbon monoxide occur even with the use of palladium as the
        metal for the catalyst. Palladium is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art as
        being particularly susceptible to poisoning by carbon monoxide. Experimental results
        obtained using embodiments of the present invention show that the palladium catalyst
        maintained its catalytic activity even in the presence of carbon monoxide at partial
 20    pressures as high as 0.1 megapascals for tested periods of operation as long as 100
       hours.
       [0085]      Deoxygenation processes according to methods of the present invention may
       include the use of variety of substrates for the catalyst. Examples of suitable substrates
25    for embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to, activated
      carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal foam, silica, silica-alumina, zeolites, titania,
      zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof. Optionally, substrates
      for one or more embodiments of the present invention may be granular or pelletized.
30    [0086]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the
      deoxygenation process uses a substrate having pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide.
                                                     22

         According to another embodiment of the present invention, the substrate has pores 0.2
          nm to 10 nm wide and the metal is present in the pores.
         [0087]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the catalyst
    5    used for the deoxygenation process comprises one or more metals such as, but not
         limited to, palladium, nickel, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium,
         osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, silver, copper, gold, or mixtures
        thereof. Optionally, the catalyst may be configured as a single metal catalyst, as a bi
         metallic catalyst, or as a tri-metallic catalyst. For embodiments of the present invention
  10    that have two or more metals, optionally the metals may be mixed so that they form an
        alloy or the elements may be present as substantially pure elements.
        [0088]      According to one embodiment of the present invention, the metal comprises
        palladium formed as nanoscale palladium deposited on the substrate surfaces
  15    including, but not limited to, the surfaces of pores. Metals other than palladium may be
        used in the catalytic materials for one or more embodiments of the present invention.
        Substrates for one or more embodiments of the present invention include activated
        carbon such as coconut activated carbon.
 20    [0089]       According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the metal is
       electrolessly deposited using electroless deposition processes so that the metal is
       substantially free of electroless deposition impurities. In one or more embodiments of
       the present invention, metal deposition is electroless deposition accomplished with
       reducing agents such as, but not limited to, hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids with
25     up to 6 carbon atoms, or mixtures thereof. According to one embodiment of the present
      invention, the metal deposition is accomplished with hydrazine incrementally or
      continuously added during the deposition so that the reducing agent input is distributed.
      [0090]       According to one embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the
30    metal is less than 15% by weight. According to another embodiment of the present
      invention, the loading of the metal is less than 5% by weight. According to yet another
                                                       23

       embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the metal is less than 1% by
       weight.
       [0091]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the catalyst
   5   is catalytically active for deoxygenation of molecules such as oxygenated
       hydrocarbons. An exceptional and unexpected property of catalyst according to one or
       more embodiments of the present invention is that the catalyst is catalytically active for
      preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
      hydrodeoxygenation. Preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and
  10  decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation is defined as greater than or equal to 60% of
      oxygen is removed from oxygenated hydrocarbon as carbon dioxide and carbon
      monoxide and less than or equal to 40% of the oxygen is removed as water.
      [0092]      According to another embodiment of the present invention, the catalyst is
 15   catalytically active so as to be capable of preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation
      and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones,
      carboxylic acids, phenolics, esters, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and
     decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation. Catalysts, according to one or more
     embodiments of the present invention, are capable of hydrogenation and preferential
 20  deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
     hydrodeoxygenation.
     [0093]       According to another embodiment of the present invention, the activation
     energy for deoxygenation is about 54 kcal/g-mole for Camelina oil. According to
25   another embodiment of the present invention, the metal comprises palladium, the
     substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide with the metal present therein, and the
     catalyst is active for deoxygenation of triglycerides. According to another embodiment
     of the present invention, the catalyst is catalytically active for hydrogenation and
     preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
30   hydrodeoxygenation so that the ratio of odd carbon number molecules to even carbon
     number molecules in the deoxygenated product is about 6:1.
                                                   24

         [0094]      Another embodiment of the present invention is a catalyst for deoxygenating
         bio-oils for fuel production. The catalyst comprises a substrate comprising activated
        carbon in granular form with size in the range of 0.5 mm to 3 mm. The substrate has
        pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. The catalyst comprises an electrolessly deposited
   5    catalytically effective palladium or nickel coating having nanoscale thickness disposed
        on the surfaces of the pores. The palladium or nickel loading for the catalyst is less
        than about 2% by weight. Optionally, the metal comprises palladium grains about 15
        nanometers wide.
  10   [0095]       According to another embodiment of the present invention, the metal coating
       of the catalyst is palladium and the method of deoxygenation is performed with the
       catalyst exposed to carbon monoxide partial pressure up to about 0.1 megapascals. As
       an option for one or more embodiments of the present invention, the oxygenated
       hydrocarbons comprise triglycerides, the substrate is activated carbon, and the metal
 15    comprises palladium. The method further includes contacting the catalyst with the
       oxygenated hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to preferentially accomplish
      deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation. The
      deoxygenation is accomplished at temperatures in the range 300 OC to 400 0C and
      pressures in the range 1.5 megapascals to 15 megapascals.
 20
      [0096]       A method of deoxygenation according to another embodiment of the present
      invention, the hydrocarbons comprise triglycerides, the substrate comprises activated
     carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal foam, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania,
     zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof. The metal is selected
25   from the group consisting of chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium,
     osmium, cobalt, nickel, rhodium, iridium, palladium, platinum, zinc, gold, silver, copper,
     or mixtures thereof, and contacting the catalyst with the oxygenated hydrocarbons and
     hydrogen so as to preferentially accomplish deoxygenation by decarbonylation and
     decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation is accomplished at temperatures in the range
30   300 0C to 400 0C and pressures in the range 1.5 megapascals to 15 megapascals.
     Optionally, the catalyst has a metal loading of less than or equal to about 2% with
     deoxygenation efficiency greater than about 90% or the catalyst has a metal loading of
                                                     25

     less than or equal to about 1% with deoxygenation efficiency greater than about 90%.
     For one or more embodiments of the present invention, the method includes using a
     weight hourly space velocity of 0.2 to 2.5. The weight hourly space velocity is
     calculated as the mass flow rate of the feed divided by the mass of catalyst.
  5
     Example 4: Deoxygenation Using Palladium on Activated Carbon
     [0097]      Using methods according to one or more embodiments of the present
     invention, catalysts were made with different Pd metal loading on coconut activated
 10  carbon. The catalysts were placed in a packed bed reactor with the same operating
     parameters processing Camelina oil in continuous multiphase flow mode. The results
    that were obtained were exceptional and unexpected with respect to the low metal
     loading and high percentage of deoxygenation. Table 1 shows that high deoxygenation
    can be achieved at low metal loading:
 15
                                             TABLE 1
                        Palladium Loading (wt%)                Deoxygenation (%)
                                  0.5                                  86
                                   1.2                                 91
                                  3.0                                  87
                                  5.2                                  84
    [0098]      In another experiment using catalysts according to one or more embodiments
20  of the present invention, catalysts with average metal loading of 5 weight % was made
    and loaded into a packed bed reactor to process Camelina oil in continuous operation
    for 100 operating hours. Sustained deoxygenation activity was observed over the
    duration of the continuous operation.
25  [0099]      Palladium catalyst prepared according to one or more embodiments of the
    present invention may have significant cost advantages that can be gained by using
                                                 26

         lower metal loading to carry out deoxygenation of bio-oils. Catalysts according to one
        or more embodiments of the present invention, when used to carry out deoxygenation
        reaction, did not show any plugging or coking issues throughout a 500-hour continuous
        run in a packed bed reactor. Catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the
    5   present invention achieve deoxygenation primarily through decarbonylation chemistry
        as evident by CO content in reactor gas outlet composition.
        [0100]     Experimental work was done using a continuous flow fixed bed reactor
        according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. The reactor was a
  10    0.305 inch internal diameter, 10 inch long reactor with pre-heat and post-heat zones.
        Reactor volume was 12 cc with a catalyst weight of 6.13 g. Experiments were done
        and results were obtained for a range of conditions. Some of the parameters varied
       were temperature, pressure, and space velocity. Ranges covered and results were:
               Temperature range 300-400 C
  15           Pressure 250-1000 psig
               Weight Hourly Space Velocity (WHSV) 0.5 to 2.5
               Conversion 20-95%
       [0101]     Methods of deoxygenation according to one or more embodiments of the
 20    present invention comprise using palladium catalyst material finely dispersed on
       activated carbon which may be prepared as described above. According to one or
       more embodiments, the method uses the fine pore structure of the activated carbon.
      The method uses relatively higher temperatures to effectively hydrogenate and split
      feed molecules so that the fragments have easy access to the fine pore structure of the
25    substrate.
      [0102]      The inventors have also used one or more embodiments of the present
      invention in test for 100 hours of continuous flow operation for deoxygenation of
      Camelina oil and showed that sustained catalyst activity was achieved under smooth
30    reactor operation with no evidence of plugging or coking. In contrast, other
      deoxygenation technologies have been reported to produce high contents of aromatics
      and unsaturates resulting in coking and plugging of the deoxygenating reactor in
                                                   27

        continuous flow operating mode.
        [0103]    The method of preparing the catalysts, such as the method described above,
        allows penetration of nanocrystalline palladium into micropores of 0.4 to 2 nanometers.
   5    Small pore volume offers the most surface area for reactions. Methods according to
       one or more embodiments of the present invention have shown that large concentration
       of palladium is not needed in the catalysts, which is a result that is unexpected and
       exceptional and may be the result of having deposited the palladium perhaps
       substantially as a nanoscale coating.
 10
       [0104]     As stated above, catalysts having from 0.5% to 5% palladium loading were
       tested. The catalyst showed very little effect of catalytic metal loading on
      deoxygenation activity (see Table 1). For one or more embodiments of the present
      invention, the specific substrate-active metal combination appears to promote
 15   decarbonylation of oils, such as plant oils, in preference to hydrodeoxygenation in
      removing oxygen from the oil molecule. This is highly advantageous in process design
      for applications such as converting plant oils to biofuels and is an exceptional and
      unexpected result.
20    [0105]     When oxygen is removed as oxides of carbon, the product molecule will have
      one less carbon. For example, C18 molecule will become C17. The feed molecule as
      shown in Figure 1-2 has C16, C18, C20, C22, and C24 molecules, all even numbered.
      Figure 1-3 is a gas chromatograph trace showing the composition of deoxygenated
     product produced according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. As
25   the gas chromatograph shows, odd number carbon atoms dominate to the extent the
     ratio of odd and even number atoms is about 6 to 1. In contrast to the results obtained
     using embodiments of the present invention, data reported for other processes show
     that the ratio of odd to even number carbon species is in the range from 0 to 1.
30   [0106]      As hydrodeoxygenation is suppressed, hydrogen consumption will be
     minimized and less water will be made in the reactor. High hydrogen consumption
     adversely affects the operating cost of the plant and it also puts a new demand on
                                                   28

     hydrogen in an existing refinery. Most refineries lack adequate supply of hydrogen and
     building new hydrogen plant for retrofit are usually cost prohibitive. In such situations, a
     process that doesn't consume large quantities of hydrogen offers great economic and
     logistic advantages to a refiner planning to produce biofuels with existing refinery
  5  infrastructure.
     [0107]     Another drawback of a process that consumes considerable amounts of
     hydrogen is reactor temperature control. Hydrogen, when consumed, releases a
    significant amount of heat and this has to be efficiently removed for safety and proper
10  operation of the plant.
    [0108]      One or more embodiments of the present invention result in about 60-65% of
    oxygen removed as oxides of carbon with only about one third going to make water.
    This is an unexpected and extraordinary result for one or more embodiments of the
15  present invention.
    [0109]      One or more embodiments of the present invention comprises using a reactor
    space velocity that may be higher than in a typical hydroprocessing unit commonly
    used in petroleum refining. Processes according to one or more embodiments of the
20  present invention use modest temperatures and modest hydrogen pressure. According
    to one embodiment of the present invention, the process includes using a conventional
    downflow fixed bed reactor. The option to use a fixed bed reactor makes the process
    easy to scale-up. Preferred embodiments of the present invention do not use a solvent
    during deoxygenation processes.
25
    Example 5: Deoxygenation Using Palladium on Alumina Catalyst
    [0110]      Refined Camelina oil was the feedstock used in a deoxygenation reactor
    according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Deoxygenation
30  experiments were carried out in a continuous down-flow multiphase packed bed
    reactor. In this example, 6.1 grams of 0.5 wt% Pd on gamma alumina catalyst
    according to one or more embodiments of the present invention was loaded into a
                                                 29

         stainless steel reactor. The reactor was 0.305 inches in internal diameter and 10
         inches in length with pre-heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 12 cc.
         Heat for the reactor was supplied by a 3-zone temperature controlled furnace with heat
         equalizing blocks. Camelina oil feed was pumped at a 0.1cc/min rate into the reactor.
   5     Liquid and gaseous products exiting the reactor were collected in a separator.
        Backpressure regulators maintained operating system pressure at 500 psig. The Pd on
        gamma alumina catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 250 0C for 2 hours to activate
        the catalyst. Reactor temperature was raised from 250    OC to 350  OC within 60 minutes.
        Liquid Camelina oil feed was then pumped into the reactor at a 0.1 cc/min rate.
  10    Hydrogen gas feed rate into the reactor was 70 cc/min. The reactor temperature was
        maintained at 350 OC and the reactor was run for 10 hours. The reactor gas product
        was analyzed using a gas chromatograph. The major reactant gaseous product
        observed other than H2 was CO. Paraffinic wax product was separated from water by
        gravity. Elemental analysis was performed on the parrafinic wax product to determine
 15    the oxygen content of deoxygenated product. Oxygen elemental analysis showed
       approximately 96% of oxygen had been removed from the original Camelina oil feed.
       Example 6 - Deoxygenation Using Nickel on Activated Carbon Catalyst
 20    [0111]      Refined Camelina oil was the feedstock used in deoxygenation micro unit
      according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Deoxygenation
      experiments were carried out in a continuous down-flow multiphase packed bed
      reactor. In this example, 6.1 grams of 0.9 wt% Ni on activated carbon catalyst
      according to one or more embodiments of the present invention was loaded into a
25    stainless steel reactor. The reactor was 0.305 inches in internal diameter and 10
      inches in length with pre-heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 12 cc.
      Heat for the reactor was supplied by a three-zone temperature controlled furnace with
     heat equalizing blocks. Liquid and gaseous products exiting the reactor were collected
     in a separator. Backpressure regulators maintained operating system pressure at 1000
30   psig. The Ni on the activated carbon catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 250 0C
     for 2 hours to activate the catalyst. The Ni catalyst was used in bare metal form instead
     of as a sulfide form that is typical for the hyproprocessing industry. Reactor
                                                    30

        temperature was raised from 250       OC to 360 OC within 60 minutes. Liquid Camelina oil
        feed was then pumped into the reactor at a 0.1 cc/min rate. The hydrogen gas feed
        rate into the reactor was 168 cc/min. Reactor temperature was maintained at 360 0C
        and the reactor was run for 13 hours. Reactor gas product was analyzed using a gas
   5    chromatograph. The major reactant gaseous product observed other than H2 was CO.
        Paraffinic wax product was separated from water by gravity. Elemental analysis was
       performed on the parrafinic wax product to determine the oxygen content of
       deoxygenated product. Oxygen elemental analysis showed approximately 87% of
       oxygen had been removed from the original Camelina oil feed.
  10
       [0112]       Catalysts according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
       promote decarbonylation and decarboxylation rather than hydrodeoxygenation. The
       process consumes considerably less hydrogen for one or more possible benefits such
       as, but not limited to, favorable process economics, use of existing refinery
 15    infrastructure to produce synthetic biofuels, and easier reactor design. Furthermore,
       one or more processes according to embodiments of the present invention comprises a
       high yield of distillate fuels with low or minimal production of undesired by-products.
       Deoxygenation reactors according to embodiments of the present invention comprise
      one or more of multiphase downflow packed bed configuration, continuous flow
 20   operation capability, and the absence of extraneous or process derived solvents or
      diluents.
      METHODS OF FUEL PRODUCTION
25    [0113]      A part of the process of producing synthetic biofuels from biosources is
     deoxygenation. Deoxygenation can occur by three mechanisms, which include
     hydrodeoxygenation where oxygen is mostly removed as H20, decarbonylation to
     where oxygen is mostly removed as CO, and decarboxylation where oxygen is mostly
     removed as C02. In other words, the processing of bio-oils which have a different
30   chemistry than conventional petroleum oils have one or more problems that are
     overcome by one or more embodiments of the present invention.
                                                      31

        [0114]      Although embodiments of the present invention can efficiently convert any
        type of bio-oils and/or other suitable feedstocks, one or more of the following examples
        provide data for deoxygenation of non-edible bio-oils. Examples of nonedible bio-oils
        include Tung, Jojoba, Jatropha, Camelina sativa, Tall, Crambe, Castor, Industrial
    5   Rapeseed, Cuphea, Lesquerella, and others. Advancements in genetics engineering
        offer the possibilities for bio-oils to be extracted from oil seed crops that are hardy,
        drought tolerant, pest resistant, and can be grown on marginal soil to provide high oil
       weight content. Alternatively, bio-oils can also be extracted from algae and other
       genetically engineered biological systems. Estimated bio-oil content from these
  10   sources can range from 25 wt% to 50 wt%.
       [0115]       Reference is now made to Figure 4 where there is shown a schematic
       diagram of a system 300 for producing fuels such as gasoline, diesel fuel, and jet fuel
       from sources such as, but not limited to, renewable feedstocks. System 300 comprises
  15   a deoxygenation stage 310 which comprises at least one deoxygenation reactor
       chamber 315 and a catalyst 320 contained in the deoxygenation reactor chamber 315.
       Catalyst 320 comprises a porous substrate and an electrolessly deposited metal
       coating having a nanoscale thickness. Catalyst 320 according to one or more
       embodiments of the present invention is essentially the same as catalysts described
 20    earlier in the present disclosure. As an option for one or more embodiments of the
       present invention, at least one deoxygenation reactor chamber 315 and the catalyst
       320 are configured as a packed bed reactor to operate in continuous multiphase flow
       mode with hydrogen as a reactant.
25    [0116]       According to one embodiment of the present invention, the porous substrate
      of catalyst 320 has a surface area equivalent of 50-1500 m2/g. According to one or
      more other embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate of catalyst 320
      has a surface area equivalent in the range of 50-100 m2/g. According to one or more
      other embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate of catalyst 320 has a
30    surface area equivalent in the range of 100-300 m2/g. According to one or more other
      embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate of catalyst 320 has a
      surface area equivalent in the range of 300-900 m2/g. According to one or more other
                                                       32

        embodiments of the present invention, the porous substrate of catalyst 320 has a
        surface area equivalent in the range of 900-1500 m2 /g.
        [0117]    A variety of substrates can be used for catalyst 320. Examples of suitable
   5   substrates for catalyst 320 include, but are not limited to, activated carbon, carbon
       foam, alumina, metal foam, silica, silica-alumina, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
       chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof. Optionally, substrates catalysts 320 may
       be granular or pelletized.
  10   [0118]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the
       substrate of catalyst 320 has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. According to another
       embodiment of the present invention, the substrate of catalyst 320 has pores 0.2 nm to
       10 nm wide and the metal is present in the pores.
 15   [0119]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, catalyst 320
      comprises one or more metals such as, but not limited to, palladium (Pd), nickel (Ni),
      chromium (Cr), molybdenum (Mo), tungsten (W), iron (Fe), ruthenium (Ru), osmium
      (Os), cobalt (Co), rhodium (Rh), iridium (Ir), platinum (Pt), zinc (Zn), silver (Ag), copper
      (Cu), gold (Au), or mixtures thereof. Optionally, catalyst 320 may be configured as a
 20   single metal catalyst, as a bi-metallic catalyst, or as a tri-metallic catalyst. For
      embodiments of the present invention that have two or more metals, optionally the
      metals may be mixed so that they form an alloy such as palladium and nickel in an
     alloy. Alternatively, the elements may be present as substantially pure elements.
25   [0120]      According to one embodiment of the present invention, the metal comprises
     palladium formed as nanoscale palladium deposited on the substrate surfaces
     including, but not limited to, the surfaces of pores. Metals other than palladium may be
     used in the catalytic materials for one or more embodiments of the present invention.
     Substrates for one or more embodiments of the present invention include activated
30   carbon such as coconut activated carbon.
                                                   33

         [0121]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the metal is
         electrolessly deposited using electroless deposition processes so that the metal is
         substantially free of electroless deposition impurities. In one or more embodiments of
        the present invention, metal deposition is electroless deposition accomplished with
    5   reducing agents such as, but not limited to, hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids with
        up to 6 carbon atoms, or mixtures thereof. According to one embodiment of the present
        invention, the metal deposition is accomplished with hydrazine incrementally or
        continuously added during the deposition so that the reducing agent input is distributed.
  10    [0122]     According to one embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the
        metal is less than 15% by weight. According to another embodiment of the present
       invention, the loading of the metal is less than 5% by weight. According to yet another
       embodiment of the present invention, the loading of the metal is less than 1% by
       weight.
  15
       [0123]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, catalyst 320
       is catalytically active for deoxygenation of molecules such as oxygenated
       hydrocarbons. An exceptional and unexpected property of catalyst 320 according to
       one or more embodiments of the present invention is that the catalyst is catalytically
 20    active for preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
       hydrodeoxygenation. Preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and
      decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation is defined as greater than or equal to 60% of
      oxygen is removed from oxygenated hydrocarbon as carbon dioxide and carbon
      monoxide and less than or equal to 40% of the oxygen is removed as water.
25
      [0124]      According to another embodiment of the present invention, catalyst 320 is
      catalytically active so as to be capable of preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation
      and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones,
      carboxylic acids, phenolics, esters, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and
30    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation. Catalyst 320 according to one or more
      embodiments of the present invention is capable of hydrogenation and preferential
                                                     34

     deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
     hydrodeoxygenation.
     [0125]     According to another embodiment of the present invention, the activation
  5  energy for deoxygenation is about 54 kcal/g-mole for Camelina oil when using catalysts
     320. According to another embodiment of the present invention, the metal of catalyst
     320 comprises palladium, the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide with the metal
     present therein, and the catalyst is active for deoxygenation of triglycerides. According
    to another embodiment of the present invention, catalyst 320 is catalytically active for
 10  hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and
    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation so that the ratio of odd carbon number
     molecules to even carbon number molecules in the deoxygenated product is about 6:1.
     [0126]     Another embodiment of the present invention is a catalyst for deoxygenating
15  bio-oils for fuel production. Catalyst 320 comprises a substrate comprising activated
    carbon in granular form with size in the range of 0.5 mm to 3 mm. The substrate has
    pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide. Catalyst 320 comprises an electrolessly deposited
    catalytically effective palladium or nickel coating having nanoscale thickness disposed
    on the surfaces of the pores. The palladium or nickel loading for catalyst 320 is less
20  than about 2% by weight. Optionally, catalyst 320 comprises palladium grains about 15
    nanometers wide.
    [0127]      As an option for one or more embodiments of the present invention, system
    300 further comprises a three-phase separator configured to receive effluent from
25  deoxygenation stage 310 and to separate water, liquid hydrocarbons, and gases from
    the effluent into separate streams.
    [0128]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, system 300
    further comprises a hydrocracking and isomerization stage 350 comprising at least one
30  hydrocracking and isomerization reactor 355 and a hydrocracking and isomerization
    catalyst 360. Hydrocracking and isomerization stage 350 is configured to receive the
    liquid hydrocarbons from deoxygenation stage 310 and hydrogen. Hydrocracking and
                                                  35

         isomerization stage 350 operates at conditions to convert the liquid hydrocarbons from
         deoxygenation stage 310 into gasoline, diesel fuel, and/or aviation/jet fuel. More
         specifically, hydrocracking and isomerization stage 350 is configured to operate at
         temperatures and pressures to accomplish converting the hydrocarbons into the fuels.
   5     Hydrocracking and isomerization catalyst 360 may be one or more commercially
         available catalyst for hydrocracking and isomerization.
        [0129]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention,
        deoxygenation stage 310 comprises two or more deoxygenation reactor chambers 315
  10    each containing catalyst 320. The two or more deoxygenation reactor chambers 315
        are connected in series (not shown in Figure 4).
        [0130]      According to one or more embodiments of the present invention,
       deoxygenation stage 310 comprises two or more deoxygenation reactor chambers 315
 15    each containing catalyst 320 or a mixture of catalysts. The two or more deoxygenation
       reactor chambers 315 are connected in series and system 300 further comprises a
       separator system to remove carbon monoxide, light gases, carbon dioxide, and water
       from the effluent stream connecting the two or more deoxygenation reactor chambers
       315 between the two or more deoxygenation reaction chambers (additional reaction
 20    chambers and separator not shown in Figure 4).
      [0131]       According to another embodiment of the present invention, system 300
      further comprises a product separation stage 370 configured to receive products from
      hydrocracking and isomerization stage 350 and separate the products into diesel fuel,
25    gasoline, and/or aviation/jet fuel. System 300 further comprises a separator 375
      comprising more than one separation stage to separate hydrogen from hydrocracking
     isomerization stage 350 effluent for recycle back to hydrocracking isomerization stage
     350.
30   [0132]       Reference is now made to Figure 5 where there is shown a system 400 for
     producing fuel from feedstocks such as renewable feedstocks such as, but not limited
     to, bio-oils and other oxygenated hydrocarbons. System 400 comprises a
                                                    36

     deoxygenation stage 310, a three-phase separator 335, a hydrocracking and
     isomerization stage 350, a product separation stage 370, and a separator 375 all
     substantially the same and configured as described above for system 300. System 400
     further comprises a separator 410 configured to receive the gases from three phase
  5  separator 335 and to separate hydrogen from carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and
     light gases. Separator 410 is connected to provide hydrogen to deoxygenation stage
     310 or to hydrocracking stage 350. System 400 further comprises a steam reformer
     and water gas shift stage 420 connected so as to receive carbon monoxide, C02, and
     light gases from separator 410 and light gases from product separation stage 370.
 10  Steam reformer and water gas shift stage 420 produces hydrogen from the gases that it
     receives using water gas shift reactions and/or reformer and provides the hydrogen to
    deoxygenation stage 310 and/or hydrocracking and isomerization stage 350.
     [0133]     According to another embodiment of the present invention, system 400
 15 comprises a three-phase separator 335 configured to receive effluent from the
    deoxygenation stage and to separate water, liquid hydrocarbons, and gases from the
    effluent into separate streams; and a second separator 410 and reformer/shift stage
    420 to produce hydrogen from the carbon monoxide and the light gases.
20  [0134]      In one or more alternative embodiments of systems according to the present
    invention, the deoxygenation stage comprises two or more deoxygenation reactor
    chambers connected in series and a separator to remove carbon monoxide, carbon
    dioxide, water, and light gases from the stream between the two or more deoxygenation
    reaction chambers. Another separator is used to separate hydrogen from the carbon
25  monoxide, the carbon dioxide, and light gases. A reformer/shift reactor is included to
    produce hydrogen from the carbon monoxide and the light gases.
    [0135]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, a basic
    process is to deoxygenate the naturally occurring, nonedible bio-oils or algae oil to
30  produce corresponding alkanes and further treat them to produce specification biofuels.
    The treatment process involves hydrocracking and isomerization. One or more
    embodiments of the present invention include a two-stage process wherein the first
                                                37

        process involves deoxygenating the oil using catalysts and operating conditions
        according to one or more embodiments of the present invention to suppress water
        formation. The second stage of the process comprises hydroprocessing of the first
        stage product in a second stage reactor.
   5
        [0136]      The total gas and liquid mixture from the first stage reactor is cooled and
       flashed to remove the gases and light liquid products, if any. The three-phase
       separator also removes any water produced in the first stage deoxygenation reactor to
       avoid degradation of the second stage catalyst.
  10
       [0137]      The hydrogen feed gas in the first-stage reactor is operated in once-through
       mode. The gas mixture from the three-phase separator will contain large amounts of
       CO and hydrogen besides C02 and other light hydrocarbon product gases. The ratio of
       CO to C02 from the first-stage product gas mixture is significantly higher than reported
 15    in literature by others. Thus, as an option for one or more embodiments of the present
       invention, this gas mixture can used as a source for hydrogen generation or used to
      produce the needed process heat.
      [0138]       Optionally, the product gas from the first stage after removal of water and
 20   other heavy condensable (if any), can be further processed to separate hydrogen from
      CO, C02,     and light hydrocarbons. The recovered hydrogen can then be returned to the
      reactor. The stream containing some hydrogen, CO, C02, and light hydrocarbon gases
     can be made to go through steam reforming and water-gas-shift reactions to produce
      hydrogen which can be used as make-up to both the first and the second stage
25   reactors. If desired, the light hydrocarbon gas stream can be supplemented by addition
     of some light liquid products from the process so as to meet the total requirement of
     make-up hydrogen for the process. Another option would be to use the separated CO,
     C02, and light hydrocarbon gas stream for combustion in a furnace to provide the
     necessary process heat to the unit. In this mode of operation, a single recycle gas
30   stream and one recycled gas compressor can be used for both stages for further
     simplification of the overall flow scheme.
                                                    38

          [0139]     The liquid product from the first-stage deoxygenation reactor will be primarily
          be a mixture of straight chain normal paraffins with a low melting point. These are
          mixed with a fresh stream of recycle hydrogen and passed through another fixed bed
         reactor to conduct isomerization and mild hydrocracking reactions. Product from the
    5    second-stage reactor will have hydrocarbon components that boil in the gasoline, jet,
         and diesel range temperatures, A suitable commercially available hydroprocessing
         catalyst that provides these functions is housed in the second-stage reactor.
         [0140]     According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, the first
  10    stage deoxygenation reactor used deoxygenation catalyst according to one or more
        embodiments of the present invention made by processes according to one or more
        embodiments of the present invention. The deoxygenation process uses process
        conditions according to one or more embodiments of the present invention.
  15    [0141]      Liquid product from the first-stage conversion, according to one or more
        embodiments of the present invention, was analyzed using GC/MS and a trace for the
        liquid product from deoxygenation of Camelina oil is shown in Figure 1-3. The GC trace
        showed that the paraffinic product primarily contained paraffins with chain length that is
        one carbon less than the original fatty acid composition when compared with Figure 1
 20     2. The results indicate that liquid product is primarily paraffinic product and also
       indicate that deoxygenation is mostly achieved through production of CO and C02
       rather than water.
       [0142]      The ratio of odd to even number carbon species in the liquid product from the
25     first stage is an indicator of the predominant mechanism for deoxygenation:
      decarbonylation, decarboxylation, or hydrodeoxygenation. The higher ratio indicates
      that the more predominant mechanism is the decarbonylation or decarboxylation
      mechanism (producing oxides of carbon rather than water). Experimental results for
      embodiments of the present invention show this ratio is about 6 in the liquid product;
30    however, in other deoxygenation technologies, the ratio is typically less than 1. A low
      ratio is an indication that large quantities of water are produced by hydrodeoxygenation
      and the process consumes large quantities of hydrogen.
                                                      39

          [0143]    The ratio of CO to C02 obtained using deoxygenation catalyst and processes
         according to one or more embodiments of the present invention is approximately 6,
         which indicates that deoxygenation for embodiments of the present invention is
         primarily as decarbonylation. For other deoxygenation technologies, the ratio of CO to
    5    C02 is from 0 to 2. The higher CO content in the gas product mixture has advantages
         for use as fuel and for hydrogen generation.
         [0144]     Hydroprocessing units and associated catalysts according to one or more
        embodiments of the present invention are unique at least in part because of their
  10    capability to selectively convert different types of bio-oils into aviation and other
        transportation fuels with performance characteristics comparable to conventional
        petroleum based products. Long chain alkanes resulting from deoxygenation of oils
        can be cracked in the presence of hydrogen and catalysts to produce bio-jet fuel
        (boiling temperature range 118-314      0C) and bio-diesel fuel (boiling temperature range
  15    262-407 C). Furthermore, the alkane chain can be isomerized to produce branched
        hydrocarbons. With the appropriate commercial hydroprocessing catalyst, the product
       can be customized by controlling the degree of cracking and isomerization to produce
       "designer" bio-jet and bio-diesel fuels with specific desirable properties.
 20    [0145]      One embodiment of the present invention is a process to produce diesel and
       aviation fuels from renewable bio-feedstocks. The specific bio-feedstocks are
       vegetable oils and cellulose-derived bio-oils. Pyrolysis, liquefaction, or microbial means
       can be used to produce bio-oils from cellulosic materials like wood chips, farm residues,
       or municipal waste.
25
      [0146]       Whether it is crop oil or an oil derived from cellulosic material, the oil should
      pass though a pre-treating step to rid it of contaminants and potential catalyst poisons.
      In the case of crop oils, the pre-treating step may only consist of acid washing steps
      and treatment with an ion exchange material. In the case of oil derived from cellulosic
30    feedstocks, extensive pre-treatment steps are needed to improve their processibility.
      They should undergo significant upgrading to remove contaminants and to improve
      stability.
                                                      40

         [0147]     These oils, whether derived from crop oils or cellulosic bio-oils, consist of
         oxygen in significant amounts in addition to carbon and hydrogen in their constituent
         molecule. The process described here consists of steps to remove this oxygen. In the
         case of crop oils, once the oxygen is removed and the triglyceride backbone is broken,
    5    the resultant molecule is a straight-chain paraffin. The paraffin is further subjected to
         additional processing steps to yield a bio-fuel to meet all the specifications of
        transportation fuels.
        [0148]      The process to convert renewable feedstocks like crop oils, therefore,
  10    consists of two process steps: oxygen removal and isomerization/mild cracking to
        produce the final biofuel product.
        [0149]      The first step consists of breaking the triglyride backbone, hydrogenating to
        saturate the molecule, and removing oxygen (deoxygenation) from the oil molecule.
  15   The deoxygenation is a catalytic reaction in the presence of a catalyst and hydrogen.
        Hydrogen is a reactant. The catalyst is loaded into a continuous flow fixed bed reactor.
       Hydrogen gas and the bio-oil feedstock are mixed together ahead of the reactor, heated
       to reaction temperature in a feed furnace, and reacted in the continuous flow fixed bed
       reactor. A catalyst, such as that according to one or more embodiments of the present
 20    invention, is loaded into the reactor and preferentially removes oxygen by
       decarbonylation and decarboxylation rather than hydrodeoxygenation. Decarbonylation
       produces carbon monoxide, decarboxylation produces carbon dioxide, and
       hydrodeoxygenation produces water. It is preferable to remove oxygen by
       decarbonylation or decarboxylation rather than by hydrodeoxygenation.
25     Hydrodeoxygenation consumes higher amounts of hydrogen. Higher hydrogen
      consumption adversely affects the process economics.
      [0150]       Higher hydrogen consumption in the reactor also releases heat which has to
      be removed for temperature control in the reactor. This would require special design of
30    reactor internals, adding to the cost and complexity of the process. Cold hydrogen gas
      is used to quench the reaction/product mixture between catalyst beds in a multi-bed
                                                     41

         reactor. Higher water generation in the reactor also can cause damage to the integrity
        and mechanical strength of the catalyst under certain situations.
        [0151]      Catalyst according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
    5   used in the process preferentially removes oxygen by decarboxylation and
        decarbonylation mechanism than by hydrodeoxygenation mechanism thereby
        producing CO and C02 rather than water. Table 2 shows results from a typical run:
                                                  TABLE 2
                                                       PARAMETER
                  Temperature (OC)                     380                      380
                  Pressure (psig)                      500                      500
                 WHSV (1/hr)                           2.5                      0.82
                  Hydrogen Feed (SCFB)                 2878                    9582
                                                       PRODUCTS
                 CO/ C02 (wt %)                        8.78                    9.96
                 Water (wt %)                         2.57                     2.79
                 Whole Liquid Product (wt %)          88.65                    87.25
                 Deoxygenation (wt %)                 80.2                     90.6
 10
       [0152]      The total gas and liquid mixture from the reactor is cooled and flashed to
       remove the gases and light liquid products, if any. The liquid product will be primarily a
       mixture of straight chain normal paraffins with a low melting point. These are mixed
      with a fresh stream of recycle hydrogen and passed through another fixed bed reactor
 15   to conduct isomerization and mild hydrocracking reactions. A suitable catalyst that
      provides these functions is housed in this reactor. Product from this reactor will have
      hydrocarbon components that boil in the gasoline, jet, and diesel range temperatures.
      [0153]      In isomerization and mild hydrocracking, the normal paraffins of 15 to 23
20    carbon atoms undergo cracking and branching in the presence of hydrogen. These
                                                    42

         types of reactions allow conversion of normal paraffins to specification fuels boiling
         predominantly in the diesel and jet boiling range.
         [0154]     The gas-liquid mixture of the second-stage reactor effluent is flashed and the
   5     gaseous mixture which contains mostly hydrogen-rich gas is cleaned and recycled to
        the front end of the reactor for reuse. Hydrogen consumed in both first and second
        state reactors is replenished by the addition of make-up hydrogen.
        [0155]     The liquid stream separated from the gas stream is distilled to yield the
  10    required jet and diesel fuel in addition to other light liquid and gases which are disposed
        of or used as in any conventional refinery. The light liquid products can be light
       paraffins that result from mild hydrocracking that occurs in the second-stage reactor.
       [0156]      The process produces hydrocarbon liquid to meet all the required
 15    specifications of diesel and aviation fuels. The yield of jet and diesel product per unit
       feed oil is maximized with lower production of lighter hydrocarbons in the process. With
       less light hydrocarbons and less water made in the process, the overall hydrogen
       make-up requirement will be less. Hydrogen is a reactant in the process to convert bio
      feedstocks to specification biofuels. Hydrogen consumption levels have significant
 20    impact on the economics of the overall process.
      [0157]       The recycle hydrogen gas from the first stage can be operated in once
      through mode. The once-through recycle hydrogen gas will contain large amounts of
      CO and hydrogen besides C02 and other light hydrocarbon product gases. This gas
25    mixture can be a good source for hydrogen generation or to produce the needed
      process heat. Optionally, the unit can be operated in recycle gas mode by continuously
     removing CO, C02, and some light gases from a separation unit downstream of the
     three-phase separator. The CO and the light gases can be used to produce the
     necessary hydrogen for the process through steam reforming and water gas shift
30   reactions.
                                                     43

         [0158]     Also, other bio-feedstocks like cellulose (wood chips, corn stover, farm
         residues, etc.) can be used to produce hydrogen. These bio-feedstocks are steam
         reformed in a separate unit to produce hydrogen. Steam reforming (gasification)
         produces production gas which consists of mostly hydrogen and oxides of carbon
   5     besides many contaminants. The gas has to be cleaned before it can undergo water
        gas shift reaction to produce hydrogen which can then be used in the process to
        convert crop oils and other bio-oils to specification biofuels.
        [0159]     One or more embodiments of the present invention comprise using at least
  10    one crop oil such as, but not limited to, algae or microbial oil, canola oil, corn oil,
       jatropha oil, camelina oil, rapeseed oil, pall oil, and combinations thereof.
       [0160]      One or more embodiments of the present invention further include the
       options of co-feeding or mixing with a component derived from fossil fuels,
 15    depolymerization of waste plastics, thermal, chemical, or catalytic, or synthetic oils
       derived from petrochemical or chemical processes.
       [0161]      One or more embodiments of the present invention further include generating
      a gas stream that can be used to generate the process heat necessary in a
 20   substantially high-temperature conversion process. This embodiment further improves
      the process economics.
      Example 7: Jet/Aviation Fuel Synthesis from Bio-Oils Using Nanocoated Palladium on
     Activated Carbon Deoxygenation Catalyst
25
     [0162]       Refined Camelina oil was the feedstock used in a deoxygenation reactor
     according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Deoxygenation
     experiments were carried out in a continuous down-flow multiphase packed bed.
     Eleven grams of 1.72 wt% nanocoated Pd on activated carbon catalyst according to
30   one or more embodiments of the present invention was loaded into a stainless steel
     reactor.
                                                    44

    [0163]      The reactor was 0.305 inches in internal diameter and 18 inches long with
    pre-heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 22 cubic centimeters. Heat for
    the reactor was supplied by a three-zone controlled furnace with heat equalizing blocks.
    The Camelina oil feed rate into the reactor was 0.1 cc/min. Liquid and gaseous
 5  products exiting the reactor were collected in a separator. Backpressure regulators
    maintained the operating system pressure at 1000 psig.
    [0164]      The catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 250     OC for 2 hours first.
    Reactor temperature was raised from 250     OC to 360 CC within 60 minutes. Liquid
10  Camelina oil was pumped into the reactor at a rate of 0.1 cc/min. Hydrogen gas feed
    rate into the reactor was 135 cc/min. Reactor temperature was maintained at 360 C
    and the reactor was run for 24 hours. Reactor gas product was analyzed using a GC.
   The major reactant gaseous product observed other than H2 was CO. Paraffinic wax
    product was collected and separated from water by gravity.
15
    [0165]      Paraffinic wax from the deoxygenation reactor was fed to an
   isomerization/cracking reactor. The isomerization and hydrocracking reactor used a
   commercially available standard catalyst. The paraffinic wax feed line was maintained
   at 40   OC to ensure that wax was properly pumped into the isomerization/cracking
20 reactor. The isomerization/cracking experiment was carried out in a continuous down
   flow multiphase packed bed reactor. Commercially available isomerization catalyst
   totaling 3.8 grams was loaded into the stainless steel reactor.
   [0166]       The reactor was a 0.305 inch internal diameter and 5 inch long reactor with
25 pre-heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 6 cc. Heat for the reactor was
   supplied by a three-zone controlled furnace with heat equalizing blocks. A pump was
   used to pump the paraffinic wax feed at 0.1 cc/min rate into the reactor. Liquid and
   gaseous products exiting the reactor were collected in a separator. Backpressure
   regulators maintained operating system pressure at 1000 psig. The
30 isomerization/cracking catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 260 CC for 2 hours first.
   Reactor temperature was lowered to 232      OC. Liquid paraffinic feed was then pumped
   into the reactor at a 0.1 cc/min rate. Hydrogen gas feed rate into the reactor was 83
                                                45

      cc/min. Reactor temperature was raised to and maintained at 360      OC and the reactor
      was run for 20 hours. The whole liquid product was collected from the reactor and
      analyzed using simulated distillation D-2887. The simulated distillation analysis
      showed 80% by volume of jet fuel in the boiling range of 244F-597F was produced.
  5
      [0167]    Example 8: Diesel Fuel Synthesis from Bio-Oils Using Nanocoated
      Palladium on Activated Carbon Deoxygenation Catalyst
      [0168]    Refined Camelina oil was the feedstock used in a deoxygenation reactor
 10   according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. Deoxygenation
     experiments were carried out in a continuous down-flow multiphase packed bed
      reactor. Eleven grams of 1.72 wt% nanocoated Pd on activated carbon catalyst
     according to one or more embodiments of the present invention was loaded into a
     stainless steel reactor. The reactor was a 0.305 inch internal diameter and 18 inch long
 15  reactor with pre-heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 22 cc. Heat for the
     reactor was supplied by a three-zone controlled furnace with heat equalizing blocks. A
     pump was used to pump the Camelina oil feed at 0.1 cc/min into the reactor. Liquid
     and gaseous products exiting the reactor were collected in a separator. Backpressure
     regulators maintained operating system pressure at 1000 psig.
20
     [0169]     The catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 250 OC for 2 hours. Reactor
     temperature was raised from 250 0C to 360 OC within 60 minutes. Liquid Camelina oil
    was pumped into the reactor at a 0.1 cc/min rate. Hydrogen gas feed rate into the
     reactor was 135 cc/min. Reactor temperature was maintained at 360 "C and the
25  reactor was run for 24 hours. Reactor gas product was analyzed using a GC. The
    major reactant gaseous product observed other than H2 was CO. Paraffinic wax
    product was collected and separated from water by gravity.
    [0170]      Paraffinic wax from the deoxygenation reactor was fed to an
30  isomerization/cracking reactor. The paraffinic wax feed line was maintained at 40 0C to
    ensure that wax was properly pumped into the isomerization/cracking reactor. The
    isomerization/cracking experiment was carried out in a continuous down-flow
                                                46

     multiphase packed bed reactor. Commercially available isomerization catalyst totaling
     3.8 grams was loaded into the stainless steel reactor.
     [0171]     The reactor was 0.305 inches in internal diameter and 5 inches long with pre
  5  heat and post-heat zones. The reactor volume was 6 cc. Heat for the reactor was
     supplied by a three-zone controlled furnace with heat equalizing blocks. A pump was
     used to pump the paraffinic wax feed at 0.1 cc/min into the reactor. Liquid and gaseous
     products exiting the reactor were collected in a separator. Backpressure regulators
     maintained operating system pressure at 1000 psig. The isomerization/cracking
10   catalyst was reduced under hydrogen at 260      OC for 2 hours. Reactor temperature was
     lowered to 232  OC.  Liquid paraffinic feed was then pumped into the reactor at a 0.1
     cc/min rate. Hydrogen gas feed rate into the reactor was 83 cc/min. Reactor
    temperature was raised to and maintained at 325       OC  and the reactor was run for 20
     hours. The whole liquid product was collected from the reactor and analyzed using
15  simulated distillation D-2887. The simulated distillation analysis showed 84% by
    volume of diesel fuel in the boiling range of 504F-765F was produced.
    [0172]     Methods according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
     may also comprise depositing palladium to make palladium membranes for hydrogen
20  separation. Methods according to one or more embodiments of the present invention
    may also comprise depositing palladium and/or other metals nanoscale coatings on
    zeolites, alumina, or silica-alumina substrates to make catalyst for hydrocracking
    applications of hydrocarbon fuels.
25  [0173]     In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with
    reference to specific embodiments; however, one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates
    that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope
    of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly, the specification
    is to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense, and all such
30  modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.
                                                  47

   [0174]     Benefits, other advantages, and solutions to problems have been described
   above with regard to specific embodiments; however, the benefits, advantages,
   solutions to problems, and any element(s) that may cause any benefit, advantage, or
   solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical,
 5 required, or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.
   [0175]     As used herein, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "includes," "including,"
   "has," "having," "at least one of," or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a
   non-exclusive inclusion. For example, a process, method, article, or apparatus that
10 comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited only to those elements, but may
   include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process, method, article,
   or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to the contrary, "or" refers to an
   inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example, a condition A or B is satisfied by
   any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or not present), A is false
15 (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are true (or present).
                                                 48

     CLAIMS
     What is claimed is:
  5  1. A catalyst comprising:
           a porous substrate; and
           an electrolessly deposited catalytically effective metal coating having a
           nanoscale thickness.
 10  2. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal comprises palladium.
     3. The catalysts of claim 1, wherein the metal comprises nickel.
     4. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the substrate is activated carbon.
 15
     5. The catalyst claim 1, wherein the metal comprises chromium, molybdenum,
    tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, silver,
     copper, gold, or mixtures thereof.
20  6. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is a bi-metallic catalyst or a tri-metallic
    catalyst.
    7. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal is substantially free of electroless
    deposition impurities.
25
    8. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal deposition is accomplished with
    hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, or mixtures thereof.
    9. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal deposition is accomplished with hydrazine
30  incrementally or continuously added during the deposition.
    10. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the loading of the metal is less than 15% by
                                                49

    weight.
    11. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the loading of the metal is less than 5% by weight.
 5  12. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the loading of the metal is less than 1% by weight.
    13. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for
    deoxygenation.
10  14. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for preferential
    deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
    15. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for hydrogenation
    and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation
15  over hydrodeoxygenation.
    16. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for preferential
   deoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, phenolics,
   esters, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
20  hydrodeoxygenation.
    17. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide.
    18. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises activated carbon, carbon
25 foam, alumina, metal foam, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
   chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof.
   19. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide and
   the metal is present therein.
30
   20. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the activation energy for deoxygenation is about
   54 kcal/g-mole for Camelina oil.
                                                50

    21. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the metal comprises palladium, the substrate has
    pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide with the metal present therein, and the catalyst is active for
    deoxygenation of triglycerides.
  5 22. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active to accomplish
    hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides at efficiency greater than
    or equal to 90% at less than 2% loading of the metal for continuous operation.
    23. The catalyst of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for hydrogenation
10  and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and decarboxylation
    over hydrodeoxygenation so that the ratio of odd carbon number molecules to even
    carbon number molecules in the deoxygenated product is about 6:1.
    24. A catalyst for deoxygenating bio-oils for fuel production, the catalyst comprising:
15          a substrate comprising activated carbon in granular form with size in the range of
    0.5 mm to 3 mm having pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide; and
            an electrolessly deposited catalytically effective palladium or nickel coating
    having nanoscale thickness disposed on the surfaces of the pores, the palladium or
    nickel loading being less than about 2% by weight.
20
    25. A method of making a catalyst, the method comprising:
            providing a porous substrate;
            providing a solution comprising ions of a metal for electroless deposition;
            mixing the substrate with the solution;
25          controlling the temperature of the mixture of the substrate and the solution; and
            ramping the temperature while adding a reducing agent incrementally or
    continuously so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the metal as a
    catalytically active nanoscale coating of the substrate.
30  26. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate is structured and comprises carbon,
    carbon foam, alumina, silica-alumina, metal foam, silica, zeolites, magnesia, titania,
    chromia, zirconia, monoliths, or combinations thereof.
                                                 51

   27. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate is granular, the substrate comprises
   activated carbon, alumina, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
   chromia, or combinations thereof.
 5 28. The method of claim 25, wherein the metal comprises palladium.
   29. The method of claim 25, wherein the metal comprises nickel.
   30. The method claim 25, wherein the metal comprises chromium, molybdenum,
10 tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, copper,
   gold, silver, or mixtures thereof.
   31. The method claim 25, wherein two or more metals are electrolessly deposited by
   co-deposition or sequential deposition.
15
   32. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate is activated carbon and the metal
   comprises palladium.
   33. The method of claim 25, wherein the reducing agent comprises hydrazine,
20 aldehydes, carboxylic acids with up to six carbons, or mixtures thereof.
   34. The method of claim 25, further comprising sensitizing the substrate prior to
   electroless deposition.
25 35. The method of claim 25, further comprising activating the substrate prior to
   electroless deposition.
   36. The method of claim 25, further comprising sensitizing the substrate prior to
   electroless deposition by exposing the substrate to a sensitizing solution.
30
                                               52

     37. The method of claim 25, further comprising sensitizing the substrate prior to
     electroless deposition by exposing the substrate to a solution comprising a dissolved
     metal.
  5  38. The method of claim 25, further comprising sensitizing the substrate prior to
     electroless deposition by exposing the substrate to a tin chloride solution and/or
     activating the substrates by exposing the substrate to a palladium chloride solution.
     39. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate comprises activated carbon, carbon
 10 foam, alumina, metal foam, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
     chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof; the metal comprises chromium,
     molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, nickel,
     palladium, platinum, zinc, copper, gold, silver or mixtures thereof; the reducing agent
    comprises hydrazine, aldehydes, carboxylic acids having 1-6 carbon atoms, or mixtures
 15 thereof.
    40. A method of making a catalyst, the method comprising:
            providing a substrate comprising granular activated carbon;
            exposing the substrate to a tin chloride solution so as to sensitize the activated
20  carbon for electroless deposition;
            exposing the substrate to a palladium chloride solution so as to activate the
    activated carbon for electroless deposition;
            providing a solution of palladium for electroless deposition;
            mixing the substrate with the solution;
25          controlling the temperature of the mixture of the substrate and the solution; and
            ramping the temperature while adding hydrazine incrementally or continuously
    so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the palladium as a catalytically active
    nanoscale coating of the activated carbon.
30  41. The method of claim 40, wherein the hydrazine is added continuously.
    42. The method of claim 40, further comprising an acid wash of the activated carbon.
                                                 53

     43. A method of making a catalyst, the method comprising:
             providing a substrate comprising activated carbon;
             exposing the activated carbon to a tin chloride solution so as to sensitize the
     activated carbon for electroless deposition;
  5          exposing the activated carbon to a palladium chloride solution so as to activate
     the activated carbon for electroless deposition;
             providing a solution of nickel for electroless deposition;
             mixing the activated carbon with the solution;
            controlling the temperature of the mixture of the activated carbon and the
 10  solution; and
            ramping the temperature while adding hydrazine incrementally or continuously to
    the mixture so as to cause controlled electroless deposition of the nickel as a
     catalytically active nanoscale coating of the activated carbon.
15  44. The method of claim 43, wherein the hydrazine is added continuously.
    45. The method of claim 43, further comprising an acid wash of the activated carbon.
    46. A catalyst made by the method of claim 25.
20
    47. A method of deoxygenating oxygenated hydrocarbons, the method comprising:
            providing a catalyst comprising a porous substrate and an electrolessly
    deposited catalytically effective nanoscale metal coating on the substrate;
            contacting the catalyst with the oxygenated hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to
25  accomplish hydrogenation and deoxygenation wherein the deoxygenation is
    accomplished preferentially by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
    hydrodeoxygenation.
    48. The method of claim 47, wherein the ratio of decarbonylation to decarboxylation is
30  about 6:1.
    49. The method of claim 47, wherein the metal comprises palladium.
                                                   54

     50. The method of claim 47, wherein the metal comprises nickel.
     51. The method claim 47, wherein the metal comprises chromium, molybdenum,
     tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, silver, gold,
  5  copper, or mixtures thereof.
     52. The method of claim 47, wherein the substrate is activated carbon.
    53. The method of claim 47, wherein the porous substrate comprises carbon foam,
 10  alumina, silica-alumina, metal foam, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
    chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof.
    54. The method of claim 47, wherein the porous substrate is granular and comprises
    activated carbon, alumina, silica-alumina, silica, titania, zirconia, magnesia, chromia,
15  zeolites, or combinations thereof.
    55. The method of claim 47, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for
    hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and
    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
20
    56. The method of claim 47, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for preferential
    deoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, esters,
    phenolics, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
    hydrodeoxygenation.
25
    57. The method of claim 47, further comprising maintaining carbon monoxide partial
    pressure up to about 0.1 megapascals (15 psi) wherein the metal comprises palladium.
    58. The method of claim 47, wherein deoxygenation of triglycerides is by
30  decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation so that the ratio of odd
    to even carbon number in the deoxygenated product is about 6:1.
                                                 55

     59. The method of claim 47, wherein the hydrocarbons comprise triglycerides, the
     carbon substrate is activated carbon, the metal comprises palladium, and the
     contacting the catalyst with the hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to preferentially
     accomplish deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over
  5  hydrodeoxygenation is accomplished at temperatures in the range 300        OC  to 400 OC
     and pressures in the range 1.5 megapascals to 15 megapascals.
     60. The method of claim 47, wherein the hydrocarbons comprise triglycerides, the
     substrate comprises activated carbon, carbon foam, alumina, metal foam, silica
 10  alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or
    combinations thereof, the metal is selected from the group consisting of chromium,
     molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, nickel, rhodium, iridium,
    palladium, platinum, zinc, gold, silver, copper, or mixtures thereof, and the contacting
    the catalyst with the hydrocarbons and hydrogen so as to preferentially accomplish
 15 deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation is
    accomplished at temperatures in the range 300 0C to 400 *C and pressures in the
    range 1.5 megapascals to 15 megapascals.
    61. The method of claim 47, wherein the catalyst has a metal loading of less than or
20  equal to about 2% with deoxygenation efficiency greater than about 90%.
    62. The method of claim 47, wherein the catalyst has a metal loading of less than or
    equal to about 1% with deoxygenation efficiency greater than about 90%.
25  63. The method of claim 47, wherein the weight hourly space velocity is 0.2 to 2.5.
    64. A system for producing fuel, the system comprising a deoxygenation stage, the
    deoxygenation stage comprising at least one deoxygenation reactor chamber and a
    catalyst, the catalyst comprising a porous substrate and an electrolessly deposited
30  metal coating having a nanoscale thickness.
                                                    56

    65. The system of claim 64, further comprising a three-phase separator configured to
    receive effluent from the deoxygenation stage and to separate water, liquid
    hydrocarbons, and gases from the effluent into separate streams.
 5  66. The system of claim 64, further comprising a hydrocracking and isomerization
   stage comprising at least one hydrocracking and isomerization reactor and a
    hydrocracking and isomerization catalyst, the hydrocracking and isomerization stage
    being configured to receive deoxygenated liquid hydrocarbons and hydrogen.
10 67. The system of claim 64, wherein the deoxygenation stage comprises two or more
   deoxygenation reactor chambers connected in series.
   68. The system of claim 64, wherein the deoxygenation stage comprises two or more
   deoxygenation reactor chambers connected in series and a separator system to
15 remove carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, light gases, and water between the two or
   more deoxygenation reaction chambers.
   69. The system of claim 64, further comprising a three-phase separator configured to
   receive effluent from the deoxygenation stage and to separate water, liquid
20 hydrocarbons, and gases from the effluent into separate streams; a second separator
   to receive the gases to separate hydrogen from carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and
   light gases; and a reformer and shift reactor to produce hydrogen from the carbon
   monoxide and the light gases.
25 70. The system of claim 64, wherein the deoxygenation stage comprises two or more
   deoxygenation reactor chambers connected in series and a separator to remove carbon
   monoxide, carbon dioxide, water, and light gases between the two or more
   deoxygenation reaction chambers; a second separator to separate hydrogen from the
   carbon monoxide, the carbon dioxide, and light gases; and a reformer and/or shift
30 reactor to produce hydrogen from the carbon monoxide and the light gases.
                                               57

    71. The system of claim 64, wherein the porous substrate comprises activated carbon,
    carbon foam, alumina, silica-alumina, metal foam, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia,
    magnesia, chromia, monoliths, or combinations thereof.
  5 72. The system of claim 64, wherein the porous substrate is granular and comprises
    activated carbon, alumina, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
    chromia, or combinations thereof.
    73. The system of claim 64, wherein the porous substrate is granular activated carbon.
 10
    74. The system of claim 64, wherein the metal comprises palladium.
    75. The system of claim 64, wherein the metal comprises nickel.
 15 76. The system of claim 64, wherein the metal comprises chromium, molybdenum,
    tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, rhodium, iridium, platinum, zinc, copper,
    silver, gold, or mixtures thereof.
    77. The system of claim 64, wherein the metal is substantially oxide free.
20
    78. The system of claim 64, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for
    hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation by decarbonylation and decarboxylation
    over hydrodeoxygenation.
25  79. The system of claim 64, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for
    hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of triglycerides by decarbonylation and
    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
    80. The system of claim 64, wherein the catalyst is catalytically active for
30  hydrogenation and preferential deoxygenation of alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, ketones,
    carboxylic acids, esters, phenolics, or mixtures thereof by decarbonylation and
    decarboxylation over hydrodeoxygenation.
                                                58

     81. The system of claim 64, wherein the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide.
     82. The system of claim 64, wherein the substrate has pores 0.2 nm to 10 nm wide and
     the metal present therein.
  5
     83. A system for producing fuel from bio-oils, the system comprising:
            a deoxygenation stage, the deoxygenation stage comprising at least one
     deoxygenation reactor chamber and a catalyst, the catalyst comprising a porous
     substrate and an electrolessly deposited metal coating having a nanoscale thickness;
 10         a three-phase separator configured to receive effluent from the deoxygenation
     stage and to separate water, liquid hydrocarbons, and gases from the effluent into
    separate streams;
            a hydrocracking and isomerization stage comprising at least one hydrocracking
    and isomerization reactor and a hydrocracking and isomerization catalyst, the
15   hydrocracking and isomerization stage being configured to receive the liquid
     hydrocarbons and hydrogen; and
           a product separation stage configured to receive products from the
     hydrocracking and isomerization stage and separate the products into diesel fuel,
    gasoline, and/or jet fuel.
20
    84. A system for producing fuel from bio-oils, the system comprising:
           a deoxygenation stage, the deoxygenation stage comprising at least one
    deoxygenation reactor chamber and a catalyst, the catalyst comprising a porous
    substrate selected from the group consisting of activated carbon, carbon foam, gamma
25  alumina, metal foam, silica-alumina, silica, zeolites, titania, zirconia, magnesia,
    chromia, monoliths, and combinations thereof, and an electrolessly deposited metal
    coating having a nanoscale thickness selected from the group consisting of chromium,
    molybdenum, tungsten, iron, ruthenium, osmium, cobalt, nickel, rhodium, iridium,
    palladium, platinum, zinc, copper, silver, gold, and mixtures thereof;
30         a three-phase separator configured to receive effluent from the deoxygenation
    stage and to separate water, liquid hydrocarbons, and gases from the effluent into
    separate streams;
                                                 59

          a hydrocracking and isomerization stage comprising at least one hydrocracking
   and isomerization reactor and a hydrocracking and isomerization catalyst, the
   hydrocracking and isomerization stage being configured to receive the liquid
   hydrocarbons and hydrogen; and
 5        a product separation stage configured to receive products from the
   hydrocracking and isomerization stage and separate the products into diesel fuel,
   gasoline, and/or jet fuel.
   85. The system of claim 84, wherein the at least one deoxygenation reactor chamber
10 and the catalyst are configured as a packed bed reactor to operate in continuous
   multiphase flow mode with hydrogen as a reactant.
                                             60

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
