ABSTRACT
The purpose of the invention is to establish a Property Cryptocurrency Investment and Exchange
Market (short as Exchange Market), which leverages the leading Blockchain technologies. Instead of
trading a property as one single unit as the traditional way, each listed property will issue the
equivalent value of cryptocurrency units by individual. These property cryptocurrency units will then
be available in the Exchange Market to cater for all types of property investors. The listed property
cryptocurrencies can be traded by a small amount of units similar to stock exchange market. All
trading will be secured and managed by the cryptocurrency smart contracts.

                                                   1
                Property Cryptocurrency Investment and Exchange Market
   The purpose of the invention is to establish a Property Cryptocurrency Investment and
   Exchange Market (short as Exchange Market), which leverages the leading Blockchain
 5 technologies. Instead of trading a property as one single unit as the traditional way, each
   listed property will issue the equivalent value of cryptocurrency units by individual. These
   property cryptocurrency units will then be available in the Exchange Market to cater for
   all types of property investors. The listed property cryptocurrencies can be traded by a
   small amount of units similar to stock exchange market. All trading will be secured and
10 managed by the cryptocurrency smart contracts. The new invention of the Exchange
   Market has key offerings include:
   *        Enabling a property owner to register the equivalent value of property
        cryptocurrency for a property and then list the property cryptocurrency in the exchange
        market;
15 e        Enabling a property investor to review and trade the listed property
        cryptocurrencies in the exchange market as low as a single unit (a coin) of the whole
        property value, which is similar to the stock exchange;
   *        Enabling a property service provider to provide various property services, such as
        legal service, property management service, renting management service, etc;
20 0        Enabling a property provider, such as a property developer or a property sales
        agency to sell properties via property cryptocurrencies and Blockchain smart contracts;
   *        Enabling a financial product provider to provide various financial products, such as
        property loan, etc.
            The value of the property will always backed by the total value of the property
25 cryptocurrencies, which is the current per-unit (a coin) price times the total volume of the
   property cryptocurrency. The property cryptocurrency per-unit current price changes over

                                                                                        2
   time based on the various financial or market inputs, such as trading price change, new
   incomes or outcomes, new market references, refinance, market trends, etc.
                                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
   Fig. 1 shows the lifecycle of a property cryptocurrency (self-service) registration, listing,
 5             trading, property co-owners dividends, and then un-listing as the platform primary
               offering.
                   F1.01 (Self-service)                                       F1.02 Property and                                    F1.03 Listing property
               Property Registration and                                  property cryptocurrency                                  cryptocurrency contract,
                      cryptocurrency                                        management services                                   agreement and pre-listing
                        registration                                                                                                        tasks
                     F1.04 Propers                                                F1.05 property                                   F1.06 Market analytics,
                   ryptocurrency listingcryptocurrency
                 trading and ownership                                   P            cryptocurrency                          f        rel     tion
                       recalculating                                                 cagspeito
                   F1.07 Dividends to                            ---- i.ownershi paidrequest                                    Icryptocur      ncy from th
                   property co-owners                                      for unlisting the property                                 exchange market
                                                                                 cryptocurrency)
                                                   Figure I - A property cryptocurrency lifecycle
   Fig. 2 shows the high level process of registration a new property cryptocurrency
                                   F2.01 Start a new                 F2.02 Include property           F2.03 include property             F2.04 Draft property
                              Property cryptocurrency                 details (e.g. address,           financial details (e.g.           cryptocurrency listing
                                              regstatonlayout,               and other value            sales contract, loan                 proposal with
                                                regitraionfactors)                                          details, etc)                     agreements
        Property Owner
                                F2.05 Review and verify                F2.06 Finalize the                F2.07 Execute all              F2.08 Become a listed
      Property Provider        proposal (by third parties          Pproperty  cryptocurrency
                                       e.g legal)                         pre-requisites                 agree the list date                 for exchange
10
                                        Figure 2 - Registration of a new property cryptocurrency
   Fig. 3 shows the property cryptocurrency trading process, similar to stock exchange

                                                                              3
                                                       F3.02 Review a                F3.03 Place a
                           F3.01 Review the             listed property           buy/sell deal forthe
                            listed Property.   ---     Cryptocurrency                   Property
                           Cryptocurrencies                  Details                Cryptocurrency
    Property Investor                                                                                           F3.07 Deal
                                                                                                                Complete?
                              F3.04 Match                 F3.05 Trade with                   F3.06 Property                        F3.10 Close the
                                   bu/elrie        Y-i      maxVolume
                                                                 matching                       Ownership
                                                                                              Recalculation          N              Buy/Sell Deal
                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                            F3.08 Partial trading
                                                                3.09 Cancel Deal.                             (Adjust the deal
                                                                                                                  volume)
                                                                                                                                        Finish
                                           Figure 3 - Property cryptocurrency trading process
  Fig. 4 shows the various inputs which will determine the per unit (a coin) price of the
             property cryptocurrency
            F4.01 Trading Price                                        F4.04 Refinance                                       F4.06 Value Factor
                   Change                                                                                                         changes
           F4.02 New incomes                                           F4.09 A Property                                 F4.07 Currency, CPI, etc
        registration (e.g. Renting                                   Cryptocurrency Price                                         changes
                 Incoming)                                                  change
          F4.03 New outcomes                                         F4.05 New Market
         registration (e.g. Water                                        References                                        F4.08 Market trends
                   Cost)
5
                                             Figure 4 - Inputs to determine the per unit price
  Fig. 5 shows the key inputs and content of a property cryptocurrency listing contract

                                                                 4
                                                                                         F5.12 Prop"rt cryptocurrency listing ota,
                              F5.114 Total number                                                  F5.10TaigF.1 Legal,,
       F5.02 Property cash I   of coins spitted by       F5.09 List-price            F.0Taigcash-out,                   unlisting,
            payment           cash coins and loan            per coin                 cm iso           ---P.     dividend etc      |
                               |      coins                                           are      agreements                          |
                              F5.03 Property loan   F5.07 Outcomes        F5.08 Incomes (e.g.
                                     details       (e.g. stamp duty)       renting incomes)
                                     Figure 5 - Property cryptocurrency listing contract
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             As shown in figure 1, similar to the Stock Exchange Market, such as ASX,
 5 Nasdaq, the Property Cryptocurrency Investment and Exchange Market is a property
   cryptocurrency Exchange Market. It offers the full functionality to support the full
   lifecycle of enabling the property cryptocurrency exchange, which include the following
   stages:
              Step F 1.01: (Self-service) property and property cryptocurrency registration by a
10 registered property owner, property developer, or a property sales agency
              Step F1.02: Property and property cryptocurrency management is to manage the
   property and property cryptocurrency the value changes, including renting management,
   incomes and outcomes registration, property refinance service, publishing key news etc.
   This function is general done by the registered property owner, property developer, or a
15 property sales agency. It can also be outsource to a third-party property service provider,
   such as property renting management agency.
              Step F 1.03: Before the property cryptocurrency can be listed in the Exchange
   Market, it will need to develop the listing proposal, which will be revised, reviewed and
   agreed by different parties, such as the property owner, property developer, or a property

                                                  5
   sales agency, who registered the property cryptocurrency, the Exchange Market, legal, etc.
   The finalized the proposal and agreements will become the property cryptocurrency listing
   contract.
            Step F1.04: Once the property cryptocurrency is listed in the Exchange Market, it
 5 can be traded at whatever blocks including property ownership recalculations. All trading
   will be secured and managed by the Blockchain smart contract.
            Step F1.05: The property cryptocurrency per unit (1 coin) price will be vary over
   the time based on different inputs, which is shown in Figure 4.
            Step F1.06: The Exchange Market takes various value factors as inputs for the
10 property cryptocurrency market value analytics, which can be used as the latest evaluation,
   suggest price as well as predicted price. The market value analytics will provide the great
   value vision and trends for all Exchange Market Users.
            Step F1.07: The property cryptocurrency requires a cash account and a loan offset
   account. The cash account will be used for manage the incomes and outcomes. Per agreed
15 dividend schedule, the property cryptocurrency owners will receive the cash dividends.
            Step F1.08: If a property investor has brought more than 50% of the property
   cryptocurrency for a property, the investor can claim the ownership and unlist the property
   cryptocurrency. To unlist a property cryptocurrency, the property investor needs to pay-off
   all the other property cryptocurrency units per listing agreement.
20          Step F1.09: Once 100% of property cryptocurrency units are purchased by a
   property investor, the property cryptocurrency can be unlisted from the Exchange Market
   per the request of the property investor.
           As shown in figure 2, it is one of the primary Exchange Market offering with the
   key steps to register a new property crypto-currency. This function will be provided to a
25 registered property owner or a property provider (a property developer or a property sales
   agency). To list a property crypto-currency in the Exchange Market, the steps include:
            F2.01: A registered property owner or a property provider to start a new property
   cryptocurrency registration.

                                                   6
            F2.02: The registered property owner or the property provider will need to provide
   a list of property value factors which include address, suburb, layout, land size, schools,
   transports, shopping centers, swimming pool, build year, materials etc. All these factors
   will be used by the Exchange Market for price evaluation.
 5          F2.03: It's also mandatory to include Property financial details which include the
   contract value, loan details, key incomes and outcomes, market references, etc.
            F2.04: Based on the various values factors and the financial details, the system will
   generate a draft proposal and various agreements for the property owner or the property
   provider to adjust until the proposal is accepted.
10          F2.05: The proposal will also be reviewed and verified by legal, property
   management party, or other third party property service providers.
            F2.06: The proposal will then become the property cryptocurrency listing contract
   with the agreed listing price, volume, trading commissions, etc, as well as a list of pre
   listing tasks, such as bank accounts, third party property ownership certificate, etc.
15          F2.07: The Exchange Market will need the evidence of the completion for all pre
   listing tasks.
            F2.08: Once all pre-listing tasks are complete, the property cryptocurrency can be
   listed in the Exchange Market for trading.
            As shown in figure 3, the property cryptocurrency trading is similar to the stock
20 trading in the stock trading platform, such as ASX and Nasdaq, etc.
            Step F3.01: For all Exchange Market users, as well as the guest users, they can all
   go to the property cryptocurrency exchange market as a part of the platform to view any
   listed property cryptocurrency, different rankings, major changes, etc.
            Step F3.02: All users can also review the property cryptocurrency details, such as
25 listed date, historical trading, market trends, loan details, top owners, etc, as well as the
   property details, such as the layout, property pictures, suburb profile, market reference,

                                                  7
   recent news, surrounding suburbs and property sales, etc, which will help the users to
   make the trading decisions.
           Step F3.03: Only for registered users, they can place a buying or a selling deal for
   a selected property cryptocurrency. If a guest user wants to trade the property
 5 cryptocurrencies within the Exchange Market, the guest user needs to become a registered
   user first with the cryptocurrency account setup. For each trading deal, the minimal trading
   amount is one property cryptocurrency, which is a coin.
           Step F3.04: When the price are matching for a selling deal and a buying deal, a
   trading will happen. For two deals with a same price, the trading will be based on the time
10 when the deal was placed.
           Step F3.05: The trading volume will be the volume of the deal with a smaller
   volume. All trading will be saved in the platform for trading analysis.
           Step F3.06: Once a trading happened for a property cryptocurrency, the property
   ownership will be recalculated. The each owner, the total property ownership percentage
15 will be the total owned units divided by the total units of the property cryptocurrency.
           Step F3.07: If a deal has zero volume left, the deal will be considered as a
   completed deal.
           Step F3.08: If a deal has partial volume traded, the volume of the deal will be
   adjusted to the untraded volume.
20         Step F3.09: For any untraded deal, the user who placed the deal can cancel the deal
   manually or per a pre-defined schedule when the deal was placed. A deal will not be
   automatically cancelled.
           Step F3.10: A completed deal will be closed by the Exchange Market.
           As shown in figure 4, the property cryptocurrency price will change according to
25 various inputs, which include:

                                                  8
           Step F4.01: The current trading price. Whenever a trading happened, all property
   cryptocurrency unit's price will be the same as the current trading price. This is similar to
   stock trading too.
           Step F4.02: A new income, such as the monthly renting income, monthly property
 5 maintenance fee divided to all owners will increase the property cryptocurrency price. All
   cash incomes will be transferred to a pre-setup bank account as a part of the property
   cryptocurrency registration. The cash incomes will be used for other cash payments and
   the scheduled dividends.
           Step F4.03: A new outcome, such as the water bill will decrease the property
10 cryptocurrency price. The cash payment will use the cash in the pre-setup bank account.
   For a major spend, such a roof fixing, renovation, the spending proposal needs to be
   raised by the property management service provider or the property main owner, who
   registered the property cryptocurrency with the agreement of more than 50% of
   ownerships.
15         Step F4.04: A major property refinance will change the property cryptocurrency
   price.
           Step F4.05: A recent sale could be used as a market reference to re-determine the
   property cryptocurrency price.
           Step F4.06: Over the property cryptocurrency registration, it is mandatory to input
20 the property value factors, such as closing to the Bus. A major property value factor
   change, such as a train station has been planned close-by will be considered as a property
   value factor change, which will also change the property cryptocurrency price.
           Step F4.07: Currency value change, such as AUD value increase or decrease will
   also impact on the property cryptocurrency price.
25         Step F4.08: Market Trends, such as suburb median price change will also impact
   the property cryptocurrency price. For example if a 3 bedrooms house median price is
   raised 3% over the last 3 months, the property cryptocurrency price needs to reflect the
   median price increase for 3% over the last 3 months.

                                                  9
            Step F4.09: The property cryptocurrency price will always have a current trading
   price as well as the market suggested price, which take all above inputs into consideration.
           As shown in figure 5, to list a property cryptocurrency in the Exchange Market, a
   contract will be agreed between the property owner or a property provider and the
 5 Exchange Market, the key sections will include:
            F5.01: The property contract value will determine the total number of property
   cryptocurrency units or coins can be issued. For example, a property contract value is IM,
   the total number of coins will be IM.
            F5.02: The property cash payment will determine the total number of Cash coins
10 can be issued. For example, if the property owner paid 300k out of IM, the total number
   of cash coins will be 300k. In order to restrict the property owner to cash-out all the cash
   payment and then abandon the property loan, the property owner can only cash-out a
   certain percent of the cash payment, which will be defined in the contract.
            F5.03: The property loan details will determine the total number of Loan coins can
15 be issued. For example, if the property owner paid 700k out of IM, the total number of
   cash coins will be 700k.
            F5.04: Taking F5.01, F5.02 and F5.03, the contract will include the total number of
   property cryptocurrency coins, spitted by Cash coins and Loan coins.
            F5.05: New market references, such as the recent 5 sales will be a major factor to
20 determine the listing price. For example, a property was sold 5 years before with the
   contract value of 500k. The recent similar sales are all above IM, then the list price could
   be $5 instead of $1.
            F5.06: Property value factors can include address, suburb, layout, land size,
   schools, transports, shopping centers, swimming pool, build year, materials etc. All these
25 factors will be used by the Exchange Market for price evaluation. For example, a property
   with 2 bathrooms might be valued higher than a similar property with 1 bathroom, and
   then have a higher listing price.

                                                 10
            F5.07: Prelisting outcomes, such as stamp duty will also be considered as a part of
   the listing price. For example, a property contract value is IM, and the stamp duty is 25k,
   the list price could be (IM + 25K)/1M.
            F5.08: Incomes, such as the monthly renting incomes will be used to determine the
 5 listing price.
            F5.09: Taking the inputs of F5.05, F5.06, F5.07 and F5.08, the property
   cryptocurrency listing price will be included in the contract.
            F5. 10: The trading commissions are the value percentage taken by the Exchange
   Market for the property cryptocurrency trading. The Trading commission percentage can
10 be vary for different cases, such as the Loan Coin commissions will always lower than the
   Cash coin commissions. For property developer as the bulk selling user, the trading
   commissions can be lower than a general property owner.
            F5. 11: Various agreements will be also included into the contract, such as legal
   agreement, unlisting condition agreement, cash-out percentage agreement, dividend
15 schedule, max trading percentage, financial report frequency, and a list of pre-listing tasks
   etc.

                                           1
                                        Claims
1.  The establishing of the Property Cryptocurrency Investment and Exchange Market
    to support and manage the property cryptocurrency full lifecycle, which includes
    property cryptocurrency registration, management, contract, listing and trading,
    value changing, dividends, claiming ownership and unlisting.
2.  The offering for a property owner or a property provider ( a property developer or
    a property sales agency) to register a property as Property Cryptocurrency. The
    Property Cryptocurrency will then be listed in the Exchange Market for property
    investors to trade the property cryptocurrency fragmentally, and these trading will
    be managed and secured by the Blockchain smart contacts.
3.  The Exchange Market offering of providing the functionalities for the third party
    property service providers to advertise, sell and fulfil various property management
    services.
4.  The property cryptocurrency contracting process, which is the combination of the
    following items:
    A: The total number of cryptocurrency units (coins) per the contract value;
    B: For Cash payment and Loan payment, different cryptocurrency units (coins)
            will be issued as cash coins and loan coins, which will be applied to
            different trading policies and commission agreements;
    C: The listing price will be determined by various property value factors, which
            include and not limited to the address, the layout, the land size, the number
            of bedrooms or bathrooms, the transports, the close-by schools, the market
            reference, etc
    D: The trading commission agreement, the legal agreement, the financial reports
            agreement, the pre-listing tasks, etc
5. The calculation method for the market reference price of the property
    cryptocurrency unit is based on various inputs, which include but not limited to the

                                      2
current trading price, a new income, a new outcome, a property refinance, a recent
market sale, a major property value factor change, global currency value change,
the market trends, etc

