EXHAUST GAS CONTROL APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINE AND CONTROL METHOD FOR EXHAUST GAS
CONTROL APPARATUS
ABSTRACT
An exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion engine (1) is provided. The exhaust
gas control apparatus is equipped with a NOx reduction catalyst (28), a reducing agent tank, a
reducing agent supply device (35), a booster, a heater (34), and an electronic control unit (80).
The electronic control unit (80) is configured to perform control of raising a temperature of a
reducing agent to a first target temperature such that the reducing agent supplied by the reducing
agent supply device is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in an exhaust passage, when energy
of exhaust gas is lower than a first threshold.

                          1/10
                        FIG. 1
                    8          6       13   61
         102                                 9   30
            7a 6               2    17         P32
            7-              27 Ir15
            7b
                        353
                27
               36                               78 31
              28
               2927
                                          33-\l
                          5                 20
      12010
                                 87-       -            80
    -LOAD SENSOR        A/                           82
CRANK ANGLE SENSORA-
                                   INPUTRO
                  1-I08            PRT \           ROM
                                  A/D                83
                                                   RAM
                  88                                  8
                                  OUT/'CP
                   88                        8

                                                    1
EXHAUST GAS CONTROL APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINE AND CONTROL METHOD FOR EXHAUST GAS
CONTROL APPARATUS
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0001] The invention relates to an exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion
engine, and a control method for the exhaust gas control apparatus.
Description of Related Art
[0002] It is disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2006-214337 (JP 2006
214337 A) that an exhaust passage of an internal combustion engine is provided with a NOx
reduction catalyst, and that NOx are reduced in the NOx reduction catalyst by supplying a
reducing agent to the NOx reduction catalyst. In Japanese Patent Application Publication No.
2006-214337 (JP 2006-214337 A), fuel is supplied, as the reducing agent, to a NOx storage
reduction catalyst.
[0003] When the exhaust gas temperature in an exhaust pipe is low and the energy of exhaust
gas is low, the reducing agent supplied into the exhaust pipe is supplied in a liquid state to the
NOx reduction catalyst. In Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2006-214337 (JP 2006
214337 A), high-temperature fuel pressurized by a high-pressure pump is introduced into the
exhaust pipe, so the fuel is gasified at an early stage through the phenomenon of boiling under
reduced pressure. It is described that the performance of NOx reduction can thus be enhanced.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] The inventor of the present application has found out, as a result of strenuous studies,
that NOx can be more effectively reduced by supplying the reducing agent in a gas-liquid mixed
state to the NOx reduction catalyst instead of supplying the reducing agent in a liquid state or a
gaseous state thereto. This phenomenon is considered to be based on a mechanism that will be
described below.

                                                  2
[0005] When the reducing agent gasified in the exhaust pipe flows into the NOx reduction
catalyst, reducing components are supplied to the entire catalyst. In particular, in the case where
the NOx reduction catalyst is a NOx storage reduction catalyst, the gasified reducing agent is
mainly used to raise the temperature of the catalyst through a reaction with the oxygen that has
adhered to the catalyst. On the other hand, the reducing agent in a droplet state can locally
enhance the concentration of the reducing components on the catalyst. Therefore, the oxygen on
the catalyst is removed by the gasified reducing agent, and the concentration of the reducing
components on the catalyst is locally enhanced by the reducing agent in a droplet state. Thus, a
NOx reduction reaction in the NOx storage reduction catalyst can be accelerated. Besides, in the
case where the NOx reduction catalyst is a NOx selective catalytic reduction catalyst (an SCR
catalyst) as well, the NOx reduction reaction in the SCR catalyst can be accelerated by locally
enhancing the concentration of ammonia on the catalyst by supplying urea water in a droplet
state to the catalyst while supplying gaseous ammonia produced through the hydrolysis of urea
water as the reducing agent to the entire catalyst.
[0006] The invention provides an exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion
engine and a control method for the exhaust gas control apparatus that make it possible to
supply a reducing agent in a gas-liquid mixed state to a NOx reduction catalyst when the energy
of exhaust gas in an exhaust passage is low.
[0007] A first aspect of the invention is an exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal
combustion engine. The exhaust gas control apparatus includes a NOx reduction catalyst, a
reducing agent tank, a reducing agent supply device, a booster, a heater, and an electronic
control unit. The NOx reduction catalyst is arranged in an exhaust passage of the internal
combustion engine. The reducing agent tank stores a reducing agent. The reducing agent supply
device is configured to supply the reducing agent to the exhaust passage upstream of the NOx
reduction catalyst in a flow direction of exhaust gas. The booster is configured to boost a
pressure of the reducing agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device from the reducing
agent tank to a pressure higher than a pressure in the exhaust passage. The heater is configured
to heat the reducing agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device from the reducing agent
tank. The electronic control unit is configured to control a temperature of the reducing agent by
the heater. The electronic control unit is configured to estimate energy of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage. The electronic control unit is configured to perform control of raising the
temperature of the reducing agent to a first target temperature such that the reducing agent

                                                   3
supplied by the reducing agent supply device is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in the
exhaust passage, when the energy of exhaust gas is lower than a first threshold.
[0008] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
execute one of detecting and estimating an exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust passage. The
electronic control unit may be configured to estimate the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust
passage based on the exhaust gas temperature.
[0009] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
estimate a flow rate of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage. The electronic control unit may be
configured to estimate the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage based on the exhaust gas
temperature and the flow rate of exhaust gas.
[0010] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
raise the temperature of the reducing agent to a second target temperature when the energy of
exhaust gas is equal to or higher than the first threshold and lower than a second threshold. The
second target temperature may be lower than the first target temperature.
[0011] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
raise the temperature of the reducing agent to the first target temperature by gradually raising the
temperature of the reducing agent.
[0012] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
control supply of the reducing agent by the reducing agent supply device. When the energy of
exhaust gas becomes equal to or higher than the first threshold after the temperature of the
reducing agent rises to the first target temperature, the electronic control unit may be configured
to supply the reducing agent at the first target temperature to the exhaust passage and supply the
reducing agent below the first target temperature to the exhaust passage.
[0013] In the exhaust gas control apparatus, the electronic control unit may be configured to
execute one of detecting and estimating an atmospheric pressure. The electronic control unit
may be configured to set at least one of the first target temperature and the first threshold lower
when the atmospheric pressure is relatively low than when the atmospheric pressure is relatively
high.

                                                  4
[0014] A second aspect of the invention is a control method for an exhaust gas control
apparatus. The exhaust gas control apparatus is provided in an internal combustion engine. The
exhaust gas control apparatus includes a NOx reduction catalyst, a reducing agent tank, a
reducing agent supply device, a booster, a heater, and an electronic control unit. The NOx
reduction catalyst is arranged in an exhaust passage of the internal combustion engine. The
reducing agent tank stores a reducing agent. The reducing agent supply device is configured to
supply the reducing agent to the exhaust passage upstream of the NOx reduction catalyst in a
flow direction of exhaust gas. The booster is configured to boost a pressure of the reducing
agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device from the reducing agent tank to a pressure
higher than a pressure in the exhaust passage. The heater is configured to heat the reducing
agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device from the reducing agent tank. The control
method includes: controlling a temperature of the reducing agent by the heater; estimating
energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage by the electronic control unit; and raising, by the
electronic control unit, the temperature of the reducing agent to a first target temperature such
that the reducing agent supplied by the reducing agent supply device is brought into a gas-liquid
mixed state in the exhaust passage, when the energy of exhaust gas is lower than a first
threshold.
[0015] According to the aforementioned configuration, the exhaust gas control apparatus for the
internal combustion engine that can supply the reducing agent in a gas-liquid mixed state to the
NOx reduction catalyst when the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is low is
provided.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016] Features, advantages, and technical and industrial significance of exemplary
embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals denote like elements, and wherein:
[0017] FIG. 1 is a view schematically showing an internal combustion engine that is provided
with an exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to the first
embodiment of the invention;
[0018] FIG. 2A is a schematic cross-sectional view of a surface region of a catalyst carrier of an
NSR catalyst;

                                                  5
[0019] FIG. 2B is a schematic cross-sectional view of the surface region of the catalyst carrier
of the NSR catalyst;
[0020] FIG. 3 is a view showing a vapor pressure curve of light oil;
[0021] FIG. 4 is a time chart of an engine rotational speed and the like in supplying fuel into an
exhaust pipe;
[0022] FIG. 5 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in the
first embodiment of the invention;
[0023] FIG. 6 is a map showing how the engine rotational speed and an amount of fuel injected
from fuel injection valves are related to an amount of NOx reaching the NSR catalyst;
[0024] FIG. 7 is a map showing how the engine rotational speed and the amount of fuel injected
from the fuel injection valves are related to an exhaust gas temperature in an exhaust passage;
[0025] FIG. 8 is a map showing how the exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust passage and a
flow rate of exhaust gas are related to energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage;
[0026] FIG. 9 is a time chart of the engine rotational speed and the like in supplying fuel into
the exhaust pipe;
[0027] FIG. 10 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the second embodiment of the invention;
[0028] FIG. 11 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the third embodiment of the invention; and
[0029] FIG. 12 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the fourth embodiment of the invention.

                                                   6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0030] The embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter in detail with reference
to the drawings. Incidentally, in the following description, like components will be denoted by
like reference numerals.
[0031] The first embodiment of the invention will be described hereinafter with reference to
FIGS. I to 8.
[0032] FIG. 1 is a view schematically showing an internal combustion engine that is provided
with an exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to the first
embodiment of the invention. An internal combustion engine 1 shown in FIG. 1 is a
compression self-ignition internal combustion engine (a diesel engine). The internal combustion
engine 1 is mounted in, for example, a vehicle.
[0033] Referring to FIG. 1, an engine body is denoted by 10, combustion chambers of
respective cylinders are denoted by 2, electronically controlled fuel injection valves that inject
fuel into the combustion chambers 2 respectively are denoted by 3, an intake manifold is
denoted by 4, and an exhaust manifold is denoted by 5. The intake manifold 4 is coupled to an
outlet of a compressor 7a of a turbocharger (a supercharger) 7 via an intake pipe 6. An inlet of
the compressor 7a is coupled to an air cleaner 8 via the intake pipe 6. A throttle valve 9 that is
driven by a step motor is arranged in the intake pipe 6. Furthermore, a cooling device 13 for
cooling intake air flowing through the intake pipe 6 is arranged around the intake pipe 6. In the
internal combustion engine 1 shown in FIG. 1, engine coolant is introduced into the cooling
device 13, and intake air is cooled by engine coolant. The intake manifold 4 and the intake pipe
6 form an intake passage through which air is introduced into the combustion chambers 2.
[0034] On the other hand, the exhaust manifold 5 is coupled to an inlet of a turbine 7b of the
turbocharger 7 via an exhaust pipe 27. An outlet of the turbine 7b is coupled to a NOx storage
reduction catalyst 28 via the exhaust pipe 27. The NOx storage reduction catalyst 28 is coupled
to a diesel particulate filter (a DPF) 29 via the exhaust pipe 27. The exhaust manifold 5 and the
exhaust pipe 27 form an exhaust passage through which exhaust gas generated through the
combustion of an air-fuel mixture in the combustion chambers 2 is discharged. The DPF 29
collects particulate matters (PM) in exhaust gas, and bums the collected PM to purify the
exhaust gas. Incidentally, the NOx storage reduction catalyst 28 will be described later.

                                                  7
[0035] The exhaust manifold 5 and the intake manifold 4 are coupled to each other via an
exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) passage 14. An electronically controlled EGR control valve 15
is arranged in the EGR passage 14. Besides, an EGR cooling device 20 for cooling the EGR gas
flowing through the EGR passage 14 is arranged around the EGR passage 14. In the internal
combustion engine 1 shown in FIG. 1, engine coolant is introduced into the EGR cooling device
20, and EGR gas is cooled by engine coolant.
[0036] Fuel is supplied into a common rail 18 from a fuel tank 31 via a fuel piping structure 32
by a fuel pump 30. The fuel pump 30 pumps up the fuel in the fuel tank 31, and boosts the
pressure of the fuel. The high-pressure fuel supplied into the common rail 18 is supplied to the
fuel injection valves 3 via fuel supply pipes 17 respectively. The fuel injection valves 3 inject
fuel into the combustion chambers 2 respectively.
[0037] Various kinds of control of the internal combustion engine 1 are performed by an
electronic control unit (an ECU) 80. The ECU 80 is configured as a digital computer. The ECU
80 is equipped with a read only memory (a ROM) 82, a random access memory (a RAM) 83, a
microprocessor (a CPU) 84, an input port 85, and an output port 86, which are connected to one
another by a bidirectional bus 81. Outputs of a load sensor 101 and an airflow meter 102 are
input to the input port 85 via corresponding AD converters 87 respectively.
[0038] The load sensor 101 generates an output voltage proportional to a depression amount of
an accelerator pedal 120. Accordingly, the load sensor 101 detects an engine load. The airflow
meter 102 is arranged between the air cleaner 8 and the compressor 7a in the intake passage, and
detects a flow rate of air flowing through the intake pipe 6. Furthermore, a crank angle sensor
108 that generates an output pulse every time a crankshaft rotates by, for example, 150 is
connected to the input port 85. An engine rotational speed is detected by the crank angle sensor
108.
[0039] On the other hand, the output port 86 is connected to the fuel injection valves 3, a step
motor for driving the throttle valve, the EGR control valve 15, and the fuel pump 30 via
corresponding drive circuits 88 respectively.
[0040] The internal combustion engine 1 may be a spark ignition internal combustion engine
having ignition plugs arranged in combustion chambers, especially a lean air-fuel mixture burn
(lean-burn) gasoline engine. The concrete configuration of the internal combustion engine 1

                                                   8
such as the arrangement of cylinders, the configuration of intake and exhaust systems, and the
presence/absence of a supercharger may be different from the configuration shown in FIG. 1.
[0041] The configuration of the exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion
engine 1 according to the first embodiment of the invention will be described hereinafter. The
exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1 is equipped with a NOx
reduction catalyst that is arranged in an exhaust passage of the internal combustion engine 1. In
the present embodiment of the invention, the NOx storage reduction catalyst (hereinafter
referred to as "an NSR catalyst") 28 is an example of the NOx reduction catalyst. The NSR
catalyst 28 is arranged in the exhaust pipe 27 between the turbine 7b of the turbocharger 7 and
the DPF 29, in the exhaust passage of the internal combustion engine 1. The NSR catalyst 28
may be arranged downstream of the DPF 29 in a flow direction of exhaust gas. Besides, the
NSR catalyst 28 may be integral with the DPF 29.
[0042] The configuration and operation of the NSR catalyst 28 will be briefly described
hereinafter with reference to FIGS. 2A and 2B. Each of FIGS. 2A and 2B is a schematic cross
sectional view of a surface region of a catalyst carrier 28a of the NSR catalyst 28. The NSR
catalyst 28 includes the catalyst carrier 28a, a noble metal 28b, and an storing substance 28c.
The noble metal 28b and the storing substance 28c are carried on the catalyst carrier 28a.
[0043] The catalyst carrier 28a is, for example, alumina (A12 0 3 ). The noble metal 28b is, for
example, platinum (Pt). The storing substance 28c is, for example, at least one of an alkali metal
such as potassium (K), sodium (Na), lithium (Li) or cesium (Cs), an alkali earth such as barium
(Ba) or calcium (Ca), and a rare earth such as lanthanum (La) or yttrium (Y).
[0044] As shown in FIG. 2A, in the NSR catalyst 28, when the concentration of oxygen in
exhaust gas is high, namely, when the air-fuel ratio of exhaust gas is leaner than a theoretical
air-fuel ratio, nitrogen oxide components (NO) contained in exhaust gas are oxidized on the
noble metal 28b, and are stored by the storing substance 28c as NOx. On the other hand, as
shown in FIG. 2B, in the NSR catalyst 28, when the concentration of oxygen in exhaust gas is
low, namely, when the air-fuel ratio of exhaust gas is richer than the theoretical air-fuel ratio, the
NOx stored by the storing substance 28c are discharged. The discharged NOx are reduced on the
noble metal 28b by reducing components such as hydrogen (H2 ), carbon monoxide (CO),

                                                    9
hydrocarbons (HC) and the like in exhaust gas. Accordingly, the NSR catalyst 28 can reduce the
NOx in exhaust gas through repetition of states of FIGS. 2A and 2B.
[0045] The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1 is further
equipped with a reducing agent tank, a reducing agent supply device 35, a booster, and a heater
34. In the present embodiment of the invention, fuel is used as a reducing agent. The fuel tank
31 is an example of the reducing agent tank. The fuel is, for example, light oil.
[0046] In the present embodiment of the invention, a leak fuel piping structure 33 is coupled to
the respective fuel injection valves 3. The fuel that has been supplied to the respective fuel
injection valves 3 from the common rail 18 and that has not been injected into the combustion
chambers 2 is supplied, as the reducing agent, to the reducing agent supply device 35 via the
leak fuel piping structure 33. The reducing agent supply device 35 is fixed to the exhaust pipe
27 in such a manner as to supply the reducing agent to the exhaust passage upstream of the NSR
catalyst 28 in the flow direction of exhaust gas. In concrete terms, the reducing agent supply
device 35 supplies the reducing agent into the exhaust pipe 27 between the turbine 7b of
turbocharger 7 and the NSR catalyst 28. Thus, the reducing agent supply device 35 supplies the
reducing agent to the NSR catalyst 28 via the exhaust pipe 27.
[0047] The reducing agent supply device 35 is, for example, an electronically controlled
injection valve that is similar to the fuel injection valves 3. The reducing agent supply device 35
is connected to the output port 86 of the ECU 80 via the corresponding drive circuit 88. The
ECU 80 controls the timing of the supply of the reducing agent from the reducing agent supply
device 35, and the amount of the reducing agent supplied from the reducing agent supply device
35.
[0048] The booster boosts the pressure of the reducing agent supplied to the reducing agent
supply device 35 from the fuel tank 31 to a pressure higher than a pressure in the exhaust
passage. In the present embodiment of the invention, the fuel pump 30 is an example of the
booster. The fuel pump 30 boosts the pressure of the fuel supplied to the reducing agent supply
device 35 via the leak fuel piping structure 33 to a pressure (e.g., 1.0 Mpa) higher than the
pressure in the exhaust pipe 27 (appropriately an atmospheric pressure (101.33 kPa)).
[0049] The heater 34 is arranged in the leak fuel piping structure 33, and heats the reducing
agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device 35 from the fuel tank 31. The heater 34 is

                                                   10
fixed to the leak fuel piping structure 33, for example, in such a manner as to surround an outer
periphery of the leak fuel piping structure 33. Incidentally, the heater 34 may be embedded in
the leak fuel piping structure 33.
[0050] The heater 34 is, for example, a heat generator that generates heat through energization.
The heater 34 is connected to the output port 86 of the ECU 80 via the corresponding drive
circuit 88. The ECU 80 controls the amount of energization of the heater 34, and hence controls
the temperature of the reducing agent in the leak fuel piping structure 33.
[0051] The fuel supplied to the fuel injection valves 3 may be supplied to the common rail 18
by an in-tank pump that is arranged in the fuel tank 31, instead of being supplied to the common
rail 18 by the fuel pump 30. In this case, the booster that boosts the pressure of the reducing
agent may be provided in the fuel piping structure 32 or the leak fuel piping structure 33
separately from the in-tank pump. The reducing agent may be supplied to the reducing agent
supply device 35 via a reducing agent piping structure (not shown) that connects the fuel tank 31
and the reducing agent supply device 35 to each other, without passing through the fuel piping
structure 32 and the leak fuel piping structure 33. In this case, the booster and the heater are
arranged in the reducing agent piping structure. The reducing agent may be stored in a reducing
agent tank that is separate from the fuel tank 31.
[0052] The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1 performs the
control of temperature, the estimation of the energy of exhaust gas, and the control of the supply
of the reducing agent, by the ECU 80. The ECU 80 controls the heater 34 to adjust the
temperature of the reducing agent. The ECU 80 estimates the energy of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage (the exhaust pipe 27 in the present embodiment of the invention). The ECU 80
controls the supply of the reducing agent by the reducing agent supply device 35. In concrete
terms, the ECU 80 controls the timing of the supply of the reducing agent into the exhaust pipe
27 from the reducing agent supply device 35, and the amount of the reducing agent supplied into
the exhaust pipe 27 from the reducing agent supply device 35.
[0053] The control of the exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1
will be described hereinafter. As described above, in the present embodiment of the invention,
fuel, for example, light oil is used as the reducing agent. FIG. 3 is a view showing a vapor
pressure curve of light oil. The light oil contains various components, which have different

                                                   11
boiling points. A solid line on the left side of FIG. 3 shows a vapor pressure curve of the lowest
boiling point component of the light oil, and a solid line on the right side of FIG. 3 shows a
vapor pressure curve of the highest boiling point component of the light oil. At each pressure,
the light oil is brought into a liquid state when the temperature thereof is lower than a lowest
boiling point, is brought into a gaseous state when the temperature thereof is higher than a
highest boiling point, and is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state when the temperature thereof
is between the lowest boiling point and the highest boiling point (a hatched part in FIG. 3).
[0054] When low-temperature fuel is injected into the exhaust pipe 27 in a state where the
temperature in the exhaust pipe 27 is low and the energy of exhaust gas is low, the injected fuel
is not gasified by the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust pipe 27. Therefore, liquid fuel is
supplied to the NSR catalyst 28.
[0055] However, the inventor of the present application has found out, as a result of strenuous
studies, that NOx can be more effectively reduced by supplying fuel in a gas-liquid mixed state
to the NSR catalyst 28 instead of supplying liquid fuel or gaseous fuel thereto. This
phenomenon is considered to be based on a mechanism that will be described below.
[0056] When the reducing agent gasified in the exhaust pipe 27 flows into the NSR catalyst 28,
the reducing components are supplied to the entire catalyst. The gasified reducing agent is
mainly used to raise the temperature of the catalyst through a reaction with the oxygen that has
adhered to the catalyst. On the other hand, the reducing agent in droplets can locally enhance the
concentration of the reducing components on the catalyst. Therefore, the reaction of reducing
NOx in the NSR catalyst 28 can be accelerated by locally enhancing the concentration of the
reducing components on the catalyst by the reducing agent in droplets while removing the
oxygen on the catalyst by the gasified reducing agent.
[0057] Thus, in the present embodiment of the invention, with a view to supplying the fuel in a
gas-liquid mixed state to the NSR catalyst 28 when the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust pipe
27 is low, part of the fuel is boiled under reduced pressure in the exhaust pipe 27. In order to
boil part of the fuel under reduced pressure, the fuel pump 30 boosts the pressure of the fuel
supplied to the reducing agent supply device 35 to a pressure higher than the pressure in the
exhaust pipe 27, and the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the fuel by the heater 34.

                                                   12
[0058] In concrete terms, when the estimated energy of exhaust gas is lower than a first
threshold, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of fuel to a first target temperature such that the
fuel supplied by the reducing agent supply device 35 is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in
the exhaust pipe 27. The first threshold is set to, for example, a lower threshold of the energy of
exhaust gas that is needed to partially gasify low-temperature (e.g., up to 30'C) fuel. The first
target temperature is a temperature at which the fuel supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 is brought
into a gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust pipe 27, namely, a temperature in a temperature
range between the highest boiling point and lowest boiling point of fuel at the pressure in the
exhaust pipe 27.
[0059] For example, as indicated by a rightward arrow in FIG. 3, the ECU 80 raises the
temperature of the fuel in the leak fuel piping structure 33 by the heater 34. As a result, even in
the case where the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust pipe 27 is low, the fuel supplied into the
exhaust pipe 27 changes from a liquid state to a gaseous state through boiling under reduced
pressure, as indicated by a downward arrow in FIG. 3. Accordingly, the exhaust gas control
apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1 according to the present embodiment of the
invention can supply the reducing agent in a gas-liquid mixed state to the NOx reduction
catalyst in the case where the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is low, through the
aforementioned control.
[0060] The ECU 80 may perform feedback control of the amount of energization of the heater
34 based on an output of a temperature sensor that detects a temperature of fuel, such that the
temperature of fuel becomes equal to the first target temperature. The temperature sensor is
arranged in a reducing agent supply passage (the leak fuel piping structure 33 in the present
embodiment of the invention) between the heater 34 and the reducing agent supply device 35.
The ECU 80 may estimate a temperature of the fuel in the leak fuel piping structure 33 based on
an output of an outside air temperature sensor that detects an outside air temperature of the
internal combustion engine 1 or a coolant temperature sensor that detects a temperature of
coolant for the internal combustion engine 1, and control the amount of energization of the
heater 34 based on the estimated temperature of the fuel.
[0061] The control of the exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1
will be concretely described hereinafter with reference to a time chart of FIG. 4. FIG. 4 is a
schematic time chart of an engine rotational speed, the presence/absence of a request for the

                                                   13
supply of fuel, the on/off state of the heater 34, the temperature of fuel, and the energy of
exhaust gas in supplying fuel into the exhaust pipe 27.
[0062] In the illustrated example, a request for the supply of fuel into the exhaust pipe 27 is
made at a time point tI. The energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust pipe 27 is lower than a first
threshold Tr1 at the time point tI. Besides, the heater 34 is off (not energized) until the request
for fuel supply is made at the time point tI. Therefore, the temperature of fuel at the time point
tl is lower than a first target temperature TT1. In this state, when fuel is supplied into the
exhaust pipe 27, the liquid fuel is supplied to the NSR catalyst 28 without being gasified in the
exhaust pipe 27.
[0063] Therefore, the heater 34 is turned on at the time point tl to raise the temperature of fuel
to the first target temperature TT 1. As a result, the temperature of fuel reaches the first target
temperature T T1 at a time point t2.
[0064] Fuel is supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 by the reducing agent supply device 35 at the
time point t2. Part of the fuel supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 is boiled under reduced pressure
in the exhaust pipe 27. As a result, the fuel in a gas-liquid mixed state is supplied to the NSR
catalyst 28. When the supply of fuel into the exhaust pipe 27 is ended, the heater 34 is turned off
again.
[0065] The control for supplying the reducing agent into the exhaust pipe 27 will be described
hereinafter with reference to a flowchart of FIG. 5. FIG. 5 is a flowchart showing a control
routine of a reducing agent supply process in the first embodiment of the invention. The present
control routine is repeatedly executed at intervals of a predetermined time by the ECU 80, after
the start of the internal combustion engine 1.
[0066] In step S101, the ECU 80 determines whether or not there is a request for the supply of
the reducing agent. For example, the ECU 80 determines that there is a request for the supply of
the reducing agent if an estimated value of an storing amount of NOx in the NSR catalyst 28 is
equal to or larger than a predetermined value, and determines that there is no request for the
supply of the reducing agent if the estimated value of the storing amount of NOx in the NSR
catalyst 28 is smaller than the predetermined value. The predetermined value is a value smaller
than a maximum storing amount of NOx that can be stored by the NSR catalyst 28.

                                                  14
[0067] The storing amount of NOx in the NSR catalyst 28 is calculated by, for example,
integrating an amount of NOx reaching the NSR catalyst 28. The amount of NOx reaching the
NSR catalyst 28 is estimated based on an engine rotational speed and an amount of fuel
injection from the fuel injection valves 3 through the use of, for example, a map or calculation
formula stored in the ROM 82 of the ECU 80. In the map, as shown in FIG. 6, an amount AN of
NOx reaching the NSR catalyst 28 is expressed as a function of an engine rotational speed NE
and an amount Qe of fuel injection from the fuel injection valves 3.
[0068] When it is determined in step S 101 that there is no request for the supply of the reducing
agent, the present control routine is ended. On the other hand, when it is determined in step
S101 that there is a request for the supply of the reducing agent, the present control routine
proceeds to step S102.
[0069] In step S 102, the ECU 80 determines whether or not the estimated energy of exhaust gas
in the exhaust passage is lower than the first threshold. The first threshold is set to, for example,
a lower limit of the energy of exhaust gas that is needed to partially gasify low-temperature
(e.g., up to 30'C) fuel.
[0070] The ECU 80 detects or estimates an exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust passage. The
ECU 80 estimates energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage based on the detected or
estimated exhaust gas temperature. The ECU 80 estimates the energy of exhaust gas as a value
that increases as the exhaust gas temperature rises, and determines that the energy of exhaust gas
is lower than the first threshold when the exhaust gas temperature is lower than a first
temperature. The first temperature is a temperature corresponding to the energy of exhaust gas
as the first threshold, and is equal to, for example, 200'C.
[0071] The ECU 80 detects an exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust passage by, for example,
an exhaust gas temperature sensor 36 that is arranged in the exhaust passage. In the present
embodiment of the invention, the exhaust gas temperature sensor 36 is arranged in the exhaust
passage upstream of the NSR catalyst 28 in the flow direction of exhaust gas. In concrete terms,
the exhaust gas temperature sensor 36 is arranged in the exhaust pipe 27 between the turbine 7b
of the turbocharger 7 and the NSR catalyst 28.

                                                  15
[0072] Incidentally, the ECU 80 may estimate the exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust
passage based on the engine rotational speed and the amount of fuel injection from the fuel
injection valves 3, through the use of the map or calculation formula stored in the ROM 82 of
the ECU 80. In the map, as shown in FIG. 7, a temperature TE of exhaust gas in the exhaust
passage is expressed as a function of the engine rotational speed NE and the amount Qe of fuel
injection from the fuel injection valves 3.
[0073] Besides, the ECU 80 may estimate a flow rate of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage, and
estimate the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage based on the detected or estimated
exhaust gas temperature and the estimated flow rate of exhaust gas, through the use of the map
or calculation formula stored in the ROM 82 of the ECU 80. In this case, there is no need to
provide the internal combustion engine 1 with the exhaust gas temperature sensor 36. The ECU
80 estimates the flow rate of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage based on, for example, an intake
air amount detected by the airflow meter 102. In the map, as shown in FIG. 8, an energy EE of
exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is expressed as a function of the temperature TE of exhaust
gas in the exhaust passage and a flow rate EF of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage.
[0074] When it is determined in step S102 that the energy of exhaust gas is higher than the first
threshold, the present control routine is ended. On the other hand, when it is determined in step
S102 that the energy of exhaust gas is lower than the first threshold, the present control routine
proceeds to step S103.
[0075] In step S103, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the reducing agent to the first target
temperature by the heater 34, such that the reducing agent supplied by the reducing agent supply
device 35 is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust passage. The first target
temperature is set to a temperature at which the fuel supplied into the exhaust passage is brought
into a gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust passage, namely, a temperature within the
temperature range between the highest boiling point and lowest boiling point of fuel at the
pressure in the exhaust passage. In the case where the reducing agent is light oil, the first target
temperature is, for example, 180 to 350'C.
[0076] Subsequently in step S 104, the ECU 80 supplies the reducing agent to the exhaust
passage by the reducing agent supply device 35, so as to supply the reducing agent to the NSR
catalyst 28. After step S 104, the present control routine is ended.

                                                  16
[0077] The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to the
second embodiment of the invention is basically identical to the exhaust gas control apparatus
for the internal combustion engine according to the first embodiment of the invention, except in
the following respects. Therefore, the second embodiment of the invention will be described
hereinafter, focusing on what is different from the first embodiment of the invention.
[0078] As is apparent from FIG. 4, a certain time (from tl to t2) is needed to raise the
temperature of the reducing agent to the first target temperature. Therefore, the time from a
timing when a request for the supply of the reducing agent is made to a timing when the
temperature of the reducing agent is raised to the first target temperature becomes long. As a
result, it may be impossible to supply the reducing agent into the exhaust pipe 27 at an
appropriate timing.
[0079] Thus, in the second embodiment of the invention, the ECU 80 gradually raises the
temperature of the reducing agent in raising the temperature of the reducing agent to the first
target temperature. For example, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the reducing agent to a
predetermined temperature when the supply of the reducing agent is announced, and raises the
temperature of the reducing agent from the predetermined temperature to the first target
temperature when the supply of the reducing agent is requested. Thus, in the second
embodiment of the invention, the responsiveness to the request for the supply of the reducing
agent can be enhanced.
[0080] The control of the exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine 1
according to the second embodiment of the invention will be concretely described hereinafter.
FIG. 9 is a schematic time chart showing the engine rotational speed, the presence/absence of an
announcement of the supply of fuel, the presence/absence of a request for the supply of fuel, the
on/off state of the heater 34, the temperature of fuel, and the energy of exhaust gas in supplying
fuel into the exhaust pipe 27.
[0081] In the illustrated example, the supply of fuel into the exhaust pipe 27 is announced at the
time point tI. Therefore, the heater 34 is turned on to raise the temperature of fuel to a
predetermined temperature T at the time point tI. As a result, the temperature of fuel reaches the
predetermined temperature T at the time point t2. After reaching the predetermined temperature
T, the temperature of fuel is held equal to the predetermined temperature T.

                                                    17
[0082] After that, the supply of fuel into the exhaust pipe 27 is requested at a time point t3. The
energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust pipe 27 is lower than the first threshold Tr1 at the time
point t3. Therefore, the amount of energization of the heater 34 is increased at the time point t3
to raise the temperature of fuel to the first target temperature TT 1. As a result, the temperature
of fuel reaches the first target temperature TTl at a time point t4.
[0083] Fuel is supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 by the reducing agent supply device 35 at the
time point t4. Part of the fuel supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 is boiled under reduced pressure
in the exhaust pipe 27. As a result, the fuel in a gas-liquid mixed state is supplied to the NSR
catalyst 28. When the supply of fuel into the exhaust pipe 27 is ended, the heater 34 is turned off
again.
[0084] FIG. 10 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the second embodiment of the invention. The present control routine is repeatedly executed at
intervals of a predetermined time by the ECU 80, after the start of the internal combustion
engine 1.
[0085] In step S101, the ECU 80 determines whether or not there is an announcement of the
supply of the reducing agent. The ECU 80 determines that there is an announcement of the
supply of the reducing agent when the estimated value of the storing amount of NOx in the NSR
catalyst 28 is equal to or larger than a first storing amount, and determines that there is no
announcement of the supply of the reducing agent when the estimated value of the storing
amount of NOx in the NSR catalyst 28 is smaller than the first storing amount. The first storing
amount is a value smaller than a maximum storing amount of NOx that can be stored by the
NSR catalyst 28.
[0086] When it is determined in step S201 that there is no announcement of the supply of the
reducing agent, the present control routine is ended. On the other hand, when it is determined in
step S201 that there is an announcement of the supply of the reducing agent, the present control
routine proceeds to step S202.
[0087] In step S202, the ECU 80 heats the reducing agent in advance by the heater 34. In
concrete terms, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the reducing agent to the predetermined
temperature by the heater 34. The predetermined temperature is a temperature lower than the

                                                  18
first target temperature. In the case where the reducing agent is light oil, the predetermined
temperature is, for example, 80 to 100'C.
[0088] Subsequently in step S203, the ECU 80 determines whether or not there is a request for
the supply of the reducing agent. The ECU 80 determines that there is a request for the supply of
the reducing agent when the estimated value of the storing amount of NOx in the NSR catalyst
28 is equal to or larger than a second storing amount, and determines that there is no request for
the supply of the reducing agent when the estimated value of the storing amount of NOx in the
NSR catalyst 28 is smaller than the second storing amount. The second storing amount is a
value smaller than the maximum storing amount of NOx that can be stored by the NSR catalyst
28 and larger than the first storing amount.
[0089] Steps S204 to S206 are identical to steps S102 to S104 in FIG. 5 respectively, so the
description thereof will be omitted.
[0090] The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to the
third embodiment of the invention is basically identical to the exhaust gas control apparatus for
the internal combustion engine according to the first embodiment of the invention, except in the
following respects. Therefore, the third embodiment of the invention will be described
hereinafter, focusing on what is different from the first embodiment of the invention.
[0091] In the case where the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is larger than the first
threshold, the reducing agent can be partially gasified by the energy of exhaust gas, so there is
no need to boil the reducing agent under reduced pressure. However, in the case where the
reducing agent is not heated by the heater 34, the viscosity of the reducing agent is high, and the
particle diameter of the reducing agent supplied into the exhaust pipe 27 is large. As a result, the
reducing agent is restrained from being gasified by the energy of exhaust gas. Therefore, even in
the case where the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is larger than the first threshold,
when the energy of exhaust gas is relatively low, it is desirable to heat the reducing agent to
accelerate atomization of the reducing agent.
[0092] Thus, in the third embodiment of the invention, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the
reducing agent to a second target temperature lower than the first target temperature, when the
estimated energy of exhaust gas is equal to or higher than the first threshold and lower than a

                                                  19
second threshold. Thus, the reducing agent is heated in accordance with the energy of exhaust
gas, and the reducing agent can be more reliably rendered in a gas-liquid mixed state.
[0093] FIG. 11 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the third embodiment of the invention. The present control routine is repeatedly executed at
intervals of a predetermined time by the ECU 80, after the start of the internal combustion
engine 1.
[0094] Steps S301 to S306 are identical to steps S201 to S206 in FIG. 10 respectively, so the
description thereof will be omitted.
[0095] The present control routine proceeds to step S307 when it is determined in step S304 that
the energy of exhaust gas is equal to or higher than the first threshold. In step S307, the ECU 80
determines whether or not the estimated energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is lower
than the second threshold. The second threshold is a value higher than the first threshold. The
ECU 80 determines that the energy of exhaust gas is lower than the second threshold, for
example, when the exhaust gas temperature is lower than a second temperature. The second
temperature is a temperature higher than the first temperature, and is equal to, for example,
250 0 C.
[0096] When it is determined in step S307 that the energy of exhaust gas is equal to or higher
than the second threshold, the present control routine proceeds to step S306, and the reducing
agent is supplied to the exhaust passage. On the other hand, when it is determined in step S307
that the energy of exhaust gas is lower than the second threshold, the present control routine
proceeds to step S308.
[0097] In step S308, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the reducing agent to the second
target temperature lower than the first target temperature, by the heater 34. The second target
temperature is set to a temperature at which atomization of the reducing agent is accelerated. In
the case where the reducing agent is light oil, the second target temperature is, for example, 100
to 150 0 C. After step S308, the reducing agent is supplied to the exhaust passage in step S306.
After step S306, the present control routine is ended.
[0098] Step S301 and step S302 may be omitted in the present control routine.

                                                   20
[0099] At least one of the first threshold, the first target temperature, the second threshold, and
the second target temperature may be corrected based on the atmospheric pressure. For example,
in the case where the atmospheric pressure is relatively low at high altitudes or the like, the
temperature range where the reducing agent is boiled under reduced pressure is low. Therefore,
the ECU 80 may set at least one of the first threshold and the first target temperature lower when
the atmospheric pressure is relatively low than when the atmospheric pressure is relatively high.
By the same token, the ECU 80 may set at least one of the second target temperature and the
second threshold lower when the atmospheric pressure is relatively low than when the
atmospheric pressure is relatively high. The ECU 80 detects an atmospheric pressure by, for
example, an atmospheric pressure sensor that is provided in the internal combustion engine 1.
The ECU 80 may estimate the atmospheric pressure based on the pressure in the intake pipe 6 or
the like.
[0100] The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to the
fourth embodiment of the invention is basically identical to the exhaust gas control apparatus for
the internal combustion engine according to the first embodiment of the invention, except in the
following respects. Therefore, the fourth embodiment of the invention will be described
hereinafter, focusing on what is different from the first embodiment of the invention.
[0101] As described above, the ECU 80 raises the temperature of the reducing agent to the first
target temperature when the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage is lower than the first
threshold. However, a certain time is needed to raise the temperature of the reducing agent, so
the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage may be equal to or higher than the first
threshold when the temperature of the reducing agent rises to the first target temperature. In this
case, when the reducing agent at the first target temperature is supplied into the exhaust passage,
the entire reducing agent that has been supplied may be gasified through the boiling of the
reducing agent under reduced pressure and the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage.
[0102] Thus, in the fourth embodiment of the invention, the ECU 80 supplies the reducing agent
at the first target temperature to the exhaust passage and further supplies the reducing agent
below the first target temperature to the exhaust passage, when the estimated energy of exhaust
gas becomes equal to or higher than the first threshold after the temperature of the reducing
agent rises to the first target temperature. In concrete terms, the ECU 80 supplies the exhaust
passage with the reducing agent that has not been heated by the heater 34 or the reducing agent

                                                  21
that has been heated to a temperature lower than the first target temperature by the heater 34, as
well as the reducing agent at the first target temperature, by increasing the supply amount of the
reducing agent. Thus, even in the case where the energy of exhaust gas excessively rises while
the temperature of the reducing agent rises, the reducing agent in a gas-liquid mixed state can be
supplied to the NSR catalyst 28.
[0103] FIG. 12 is a flowchart showing a control routine of a reducing agent supply process in
the fourth embodiment of the invention. The present control routine is repeatedly executed at
intervals of a predetermined time by the ECU 80, after the start of the internal combustion
engine 1.
[0104] Steps S401 to S403 are identical to steps S101 to steps S103 in FIG. 5 respectively, so
the description thereof will be omitted.
[0105] The present control routine proceeds to step S404 after step S403. In step S404 as well
as step S402, the ECU 80 determines whether or not the energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust
passage estimated by the ECU 80 is lower than the first threshold.
[0106] When it is determined in step S404 that the energy of exhaust gas is lower than the first
threshold, the present control routine proceeds to step S406, and the reducing agent is supplied
to the exhaust passage. On the other hand, when it is determined in step S404 that the energy of
exhaust gas is equal to or higher than the first threshold, the present control routine proceeds to
step S405.
[0107] In step S405, the ECU 80 increases the supply amount of the reducing agent to supply
the exhaust passage with the reducing agent below the first target temperature as well as the
reducing agent at the first target temperature. After step S405, the reducing agent is supplied to
the exhaust passage in step S406. After step S406, the present control routine is ended.
[0108] Although the preferred embodiments of the invention have been described hereinbefore,
the invention is not limited to these embodiments thereof, but can be subjected to various
modifications and alterations within the range of what is set forth in the claims. For example, a
fuel such as biodiesel fuel (BDF) may be used as the reducing agent. The NOx reduction
catalyst may be a NOx selective catalytic reduction catalyst (an SCR catalyst). In this case, urea
water is used as the reducing agent. Incidentally, the first target temperature, the first threshold,

                                                22
the second target temperature, and the second threshold are set to appropriate values in
accordance with the characteristics of the reducing agent such that the reducing agent assumes a
gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust passage.
[0109] The aforementioned embodiments of the invention can be carried out by being combined
with one another arbitrarily. For example, steps S404 and S405 in FIG. 12 may be carried out
between steps S205 and S206 in FIG. 10 or between steps S305 and S306 in FIG. 11.

                                                  23
CLAIMS
1.    An exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion engine comprising:
      a NOx reduction catalyst arranged in an exhaust passage of the internal combustion engine;
      a reducing agent tank that stores a reducing agent;
      a reducing agent supply device configured to supply the reducing agent to the exhaust
passage upstream of the NOx reduction catalyst in a flow direction of exhaust gas;
      a booster configured to boost a pressure of the reducing agent supplied to the reducing
agent supply device from the reducing agent tank to a pressure higher than a pressure in the
exhaust passage;
      a heater configured to heat the reducing agent supplied to the reducing agent supply device
from the reducing agent tank; and
      an electronic control unit configured to control a temperature of the reducing agent by the
heater,
      the electronic control unit being configured to estimate energy of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage, and
      the electronic control unit being configured to perform control of raising the temperature of
the reducing agent to a first target temperature such that the reducing agent supplied by the
reducing agent supply device is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust passage,
when the energy of exhaust gas is lower than a first threshold.
2.    The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
      the electronic control unit is configured to execute one of detecting and estimating an
exhaust gas temperature in the exhaust passage , and
      the electronic control unit is configured to estimate the energy of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage based on the exhaust gas temperature.
3.    The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 2, wherein
      the electronic control unit is configured to estimate a flow rate of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage, and
      the electronic control unit is configured to estimate the energy of exhaust gas in the
exhaust passage based on the exhaust gas temperature and the flow rate of exhaust gas.

                                                   24
4.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to raise the temperature of the reducing agent to a
second target temperature when the energy of exhaust gas is equal to or higher than the first
threshold and lower than a second threshold, and
       the second target temperature is lower than the first target temperature.
5.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to raise the temperature of the reducing agent to
the first target temperature by gradually raising the temperature of the reducing agent.
6.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to control supply of the reducing agent by the
reducing agent supply device, and
       when the energy of exhaust gas becomes equal to or higher than the first threshold after the
temperature of the reducing agent rises to the first target temperature, the electronic control unit
is configured to supply the reducing agent at the first target temperature to the exhaust passage
and supply the reducing agent below the first target temperature to the exhaust passage.
7.     The exhaust gas control apparatus for the internal combustion engine according to any one
of claims I to 6, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to execute one of detecting and estimating an
atmospheric pressure, and
       the electronic control unit is configured to set at least one of the first target temperature and
the first threshold lower when the atmospheric pressure is relatively low than when the
atmospheric pressure is relatively high.
8.     A control method for an exhaust gas control apparatus,
       the exhaust gas control apparatus being provided in an internal combustion engine,
       the exhaust gas control apparatus including a NOx reduction catalyst, a reducing agent
tank, a reducing agent supply device, a booster, a heater, and an electronic control unit,
       the NOx reduction catalyst being arranged in an exhaust passage of the internal
combustion engine,
       the reducing agent tank that stores a reducing agent,

                                                  25
      the reducing agent supply device being configured to supply the reducing agent to the
exhaust passage upstream of the NOx reduction catalyst in a flow direction of exhaust gas,
      the booster being configured to boost a pressure of the reducing agent supplied to the
reducing agent supply device from the reducing agent tank to a pressure higher than a pressure in
the exhaust passage, and
      the heater being configured to heat the reducing agent supplied to the reducing agent
supply device from the reducing agent tank,
      the control method comprising:
             controlling a temperature of the reducing agent by the heater;
             estimating energy of exhaust gas in the exhaust passage by the electronic control
      unit, and
             controlling, by the electronic control unit, the heater to raise the temperature of the
      reducing agent to a first target temperature such that the reducing agent supplied by the
      reducing agent supply device is brought into a gas-liquid mixed state in the exhaust
      passage, when the energy of exhaust gas is lower than a first threshold.
                                 Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
                                            The Doshisha
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>

