   ABSTRACT
   A gaming system comprising: a display; a display
 5 controller arranged to control the display to display a
   plurality of player interfaces, each player interface
   comprising  a manipulation area, a commitment area, and
   one or more tokens of the player; and the player interface
   of each player comprising a token manipulator operable by
10 the respective player to form a token set of the player
   within the manipulation area of the player from the one or
   more tokens of the player; wherein the token manipulator
   is operable by the player to move the token set of the
   player to the commitment area of the player whereafter a
15 function is executed in respect of the token set of the
   player.

                    6/18
                                                    10
               Game Controller
                         57
   Memory                            RNG
                53
                 Processor             Network Card
                                       N     r
                  acce p o r
[Dislays      and/or Buttons       Reader
           66                 67              68
   Printer    Coin input/bill    Coin Output
           69                 62             61
                                                       60
                Figure 6

   Title
     METHOD OF CONTROLLING A GAMING SYSTEM, A  PLAYER INTERFACE
             FOR A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5
   Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
10 application of Australian application no. 2013263821, which
   in turn is a divisional application of 2011213754, which in
   turn is a divisional application of 2008202115.    The
   disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated
   herein by reference.
15
   Field
   The present invention relates to a gaming system, a player
   interface for a gaming system and a method of gaming.
20
   Background to the Invention
   Traditionally, electronic gaming machines have taken the
   form of slot machines where a player plays a game involving
25 reels that spin and prizes are awarded based on the
   position at which the reels stop relative to win lines
   selected by the player.   Originally, these machines were
   mechanical with physically rotating reels.    In many modern
   slot machines, the mechanical reels have been replaced by
30 "virtual reels displayed as spinning on a video display.
   More recently, there has been a move towards implementing
   other types of games such as table games including poker,
   blackjack or roulette on electronic gaming machines.
35 Motivations for doing so include that less staff may be
   required and games can be played more quickly when a human
   dealer or croupier is replaced by a gaming machine.
   As such games are developed, there is a need to provide
40 electronic display techniques which suit these game types.

   Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
 5 comprising:
             a display;
             a display controller arranged to control the
   display to display a common gaming area and a plurality of
   player interfaces, each player interface each displayed
10 separately of the common gaming area comprising a token
   stack area, a manipulation area, a commitment area, and one
   or more tokens of the player; and
             the player interface of each player comprising a
   token manipulator operable by the respective player to form
15 a plurality of separate   token sets of the player
   concurrently within the manipulation area of the player
   from the one or more tokens of the player;
             wherein the token manipulator is operable by the
   player to independently move one or more of the plurality
20 of token sets of the player from the token stack area to
   the manipulation area for manipulation within the
   manipulation area to form a token set to be used as a bet
   amount and moving the token set to be used as a bet amount
   to the commitment area of the player whereafter the token
25 set to be used as a bet amount is committed as a bet for
   play of the gaming system.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
   former to allow the player to form a token set consisting
30 of a stack of tokens.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a value
   indicator for indicating a current value of a token set.
35 In an embodiment, the display controller controls the
   display to display a token balance area (which may comprise
   the token stack area),  and controls the display to at least
   initially display all of a player's tokens in
40 the token balance area.

   In an embodiment, the display controller is arranged to
   display tokens of different denominations separately.
 5 In an embodiment, the token manipulator is operable to
   select an entire stack.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator is operable to
   select a single token of a stack.
10
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
   splitter operable by the player to split a stack of tokens.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
15 view changer operable by the player to change a view of the
   stack of tokens.
   In an embodiment, the display controller further displays a
   special function button operable by a player to perform a
20 special function in relation to a token set.
   In an embodiment, the display provides a touch screen
   display and the player manipulates the tokens by touching
   their representations on the touch screen display.
25
   In an embodiment, the player moves a touched token by
   maintaining contact with the token until a desired new
   location for the token is reached.
30 In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a pointing
   device operable to manipulate tokens.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a plurality
   of buttons operable to manipulate tokens.
35
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a velocity
   vector calculator for calculating a velocity vector from a
   player movement relative to the touch screen display and
   wherein the token manipulator is arranged to move a touched
40 token based on the calculated velocity.

   In a second aspect, the invention provides an interface for
   a gaming system comprising:
             a display arranged to display a common gaming area
 5 and a plurality of player interfaces each displayed
   separately of the common gaming area, each player interface
   comprising a token stack area, a manipulation area, a
   commitment area and one or more tokens of the player; and
             the player interface of each player comprising a
10 token manipulator operable by the respective player to form
   a plurality of separate token sets concurrently within the
   manipulation area from the one or more tokens;
             wherein the token manipulator is operable by the
   player to independently move one or more of the plurality
15 of token sets from the token stack area to the manipulation
   area for manipulation within the manipulation area to form
   a token set to be used as a bet amount and moving the token
   set to be used as a bet amount to the commitment area of
   the player whereafter the token set to be used as a bet
20 amount is committed as a bet for play of the gaming system.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
   former to allow the player to form a token set consisting
   of a stack of tokens.
25
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a value
   indicator for indicating a current value of a token set.
   In an embodiment, the display is arranged to display a
30 token balance area (which may comprise the token stack
   area), which displays, at least initially, all of a
   player's tokens.
   In an embodiment, the display is arranged to display tokens
35 of different denominations separately.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator is operable to
   select an entire stack of tokens.
   In an embodiment, the token manipulator is operable to
40 select a single token of a stack of tokens.

   In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
   splitter operable by the player to split a stack of tokens.
 5 In an embodiment, the token manipulator comprises a stack
   view changer operable by the player to change a view of the
   stack of tokens.
   In an embodiment, the display is arranged to display a
10 special function button operable by a player to perform a
   special function in relation to a token set.
   In an embodiment, the display is a touch screen display and
   the player manipulates the tokens by touching their
   representations on the touch screen display.
15
   In an embodiment, the player moves a touched token by
   maintaining contact with the token until a desired new
   location for the token is reached.
20 In an embodiment, the player interface comprises a pointing
   device operable to manipulate tokens.
   In an embodiment, the player interface comprises a
   plurality of buttons operable to manipulate tokens.
25
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a method of
   gaming comprising:
             displaying a common gaming area and a plurality of
   player interfaces each displayed separately of the common
30 gaming area, each player interface comprising a token stack
   area, a manipulation area, a commitment area and one or
   more tokens of the player on a display;
             receiving via a player interface of a player, one
   or more token manipulation instructions from the player;
35           forming a plurality of token sets of the player
   concurrently within the manipulation area from the one or
   more tokens based on the one or more token manipulation
   instructions; and
             determining that the player has independently
40 moved one or more of the token sets from the token stack

   area to the manipulation area for manipulation within the
   manipulation area to form a token set to be used as a bet
   amount and moving the token set to be used as a bet amount
   to the commitment area of the player whereafter the token
 5 set to be used as a bet amount is committed as a bet for
   play of the gaming system.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises forming a token set
   consisting of a stack of tokens.
10
   In an embodiment, the method comprises indicating a current
   value of a token set.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises controlling the
15 display to display a token balance area (which may comprise
   the token stack area), and to at least initially display
   all of a player's tokens in the token balance area.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises displaying tokens
20 of different denominations separately.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises further displaying a
   special function button operable by a player to perform a
   special function in relation to a token set.
25
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed by a computer causes the computer
   to implement the above method.
30 In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a computer
   readable medium comprising the above computer program code.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a data signal
   comprising the above computer program code.
35
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides transmitting or
   receiving the above computer program code.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
40

   An embodiment of the invention will now be described in
   relation to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1 is a plan view of a gaming table of an embodiment;
 5
   Figure 2 is a functional block diagram of a gaming system
   on an embodiment;
   Figure 3 is a further block diagram showing a manipulation
10 processor in more detail;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram showing a networked
   embodiment;
15 Figure 5 is a perspective view of a gaming machine in the
   form of a stand alone gaming machine;
   Figure 6 is a block diagram of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
20
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of the method of the embodiment;
   Figure 8 shows an exemplary player interface;
25 Figures 9 to 16 provide examples of building a bet;
   Figure 17 illustrates an example of cancelling a bet;
   Figures 18 to 24 provide examples of selecting more than
30 one token at once;
   Figures 25 to 27 show special manipulation functions;
   Figure 28 illustrates one alternative control method; and
35
   Figures 29 and 30 illustrate another alternative control
   model.
   Detailed Description
40

   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
   arranged to implement a gaming system with a token
   manipulator.  In one embodiment, the gaming system is
   implemented as a virtual gaming table, where a horizontally
 5 oriented touch screen display is used by players to
   participate in a game but may also be implemented as a
   gaming machine.  The gaming system can take a number of
   different forms.
10 In a first form, a stand alone gaming table or a gaming
   machine is provided wherein all or most components required
   for implementing the game are present or located next to a
   player operable virtual gaming table.
15 In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are located at the gaming table or gaming machine
   and some of the components are located remotely.   For
   example, a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein
20 part of the game is executed locally by the player operable
   gaming table and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client" architecture
   may be used wherein most of the game is executed remotely
   such as by a gaming server and a player operable gaming
25 table is used only to display audible and/or visible gaming
   information to the player and receive gaming inputs from
   the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
30 envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming table is networked to a gaming server and
   the respective functions of the gaming table and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.  For example, the gaming
   system may operate in stand alone gaming table mode, "thick
35 client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game
   being played, operating conditions, and so on. Other
   variations will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
40 reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.

   Figure 1 is a plan view of a virtual gaming table 100
   having a horizontally oriented display 120 and a log-on
   terminal 140.  As can been from figure 1, the gaming table
 5 is surrounded by seven chairs 130 indicating seven possible
   player positions.   Two player interfaces 124a, 124b are
   active on the display 120.   A central area 122 of the
   display is used to display information common to all
   players; in the example shown in Figure 1 a display of a
10 roulette game.
   As shown in Figure 2, from a functional perspective, a
   virtual table 200 comprises a game controller 220, a common
   display 212 and a variable number of player interfaces 210.
15 As described in detail below, in the embodiment the number
   of player interfaces depends on the number of players
   playing the game.   In some embodiments there may be a
   single player interface for each player so that each time a
   player enters the game an interface is added.   In other
20 embodiments, a minimum number of player interfaces may
   always be displayed even though it is possible they are not
   all being used and additional player interfaces added as
   necessary, when the minimum is exceeded; unused interfaces
   may function in an attract mode.   In further embodiments, a
25 player may request an additional player interface.   For
   example, some players may wish to play two hands of cards
   simultaneously where the gaming table implements a card
   game.
30 In the embodiment, a number of modules are implemented by a
   processor 215.  However, a person skilled in the art will
   appreciate that dedicated hardware could be used instead of
   program code running on a processor 215 to implement the
   required functions.
35
   The game controller's processor 215 typically processes the
   game play instructions in accordance with game play rules
   and outputs game play outcomes to the display. Typically,
   the game play instructions are stored as program code in a
40 memory. Herein the term "processor" is used to refer

   generically to any device that can process game play
   instructions in accordance with game play rules and may
   include: a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable
   logic device or other computational device, a general
 5 purpose computer  (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   These functions are carried out based on data such as
   player and credit data 272 and game rule data 274 stored in
   a memory 270 of the game controller 220.   The game
10 controller 220 has a display controller 230 for controlling
   what is displayed both in the common display area 212 of a
   gaming table 212 and on each of the player interfaces 210.
   The display 120 incorporates a touch screen.   Herein such a
15 display is referred to as "touch screen display".
   Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the player
   interfaces share a common display 120.   A person skilled in
   the art will appreciate that the "touch screen" sensor need
   not cover the entire display.   For example central area 122
20 as shown in Figure 1 need not necessarily have a touch
   screen capability.   The touch screen is a multi-touch
   screen capable of processing simultaneous or near
   simultaneous instructions from a number of different
   players.  The display 120 itself is typically a wide
25 screen, large format display such as a plasma or LCD
   display of a size in the order of 80-120 inches (2m -  3m)
   across the diagonal.   However, a person skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the display could be formed a
   plurality of display sub-units located adjacent to one
30 another under the control of the display controller 230 to
   display both the player interfaces 210 and the common
   display area 212.
   The display controller 230 controls the display to display
35 the individual player interfaces based on data provided by
   the interface controller 240 and the outcome determiner
   260.  The interface controller 240 also provides data to
   the touch screen processor 250 to enable it to interpret
   touches on the touch screen display in order to associate
40 them with individual player interfaces 210 and to provide

   this data to the outcome determiner 260.  In this manner,
   individual player instructions can be correctly provided to
   the outcome determiner 260 so that the outcome determiner
   266 can determine the result of the game based on the game
 5 rule data 274.  Similarly, the outcome determiner 260
   provides data to the display controller 230 regarding the
   game outcomes for individual players.  This may be
   displayed in a display region of the player interface 210
   on the common display or both.
10
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that depending
   on the game, the outcome determiner may determine
   independent results for each player such as in a game like
   roulette or results that depend on the game play of other
15 players such as in a competitive game like poker.   Credit
   data 272 is maintained separately for each player interface
   in memory 270.  That data may be associated with a specific
   player and the players identity captured either via the
   log-on terminal 280 or by other means as will be described
20 in further detail.  The log-on terminal 280 typically
   includes a touch screen display allowing a player to enter
   their name and assign to themselves a player position
   number.  Alternatively the player position maybe assigned
   by the game system.  In alternative embodiments, players
25 may be assigned positions anonymously by providing them
   with a temporary access code, printed by the log-on
   terminal on a voucher.  In other embodiments, a player
   position is allocated by determining a player's position
   relative to the table.
30
   To participate in the game a player uses the log-on
   terminal 280 to request a player interface for the game
   either manually, or by swiping or otherwise providing a
   player tracking device to the log-on terminal 280.   That
35 is, depending on the embodiment the log-on terminal may
   read magnetic cards, smart cards, or RFID tags or the like.
   The player may also use the log-on terminal to log out of
   the game or alternatively may operate the player interface
40 to log out of the game.

   A credit input/output mechanism 290 can either be provided
   centrally, for example in association with the log-on
   terminal so that the player enters credit when they log-on
 5 to the game.  A credit mechanism can also be provided at
   each player position.  For example, by a bill acceptor
   located under the table.
   In one embodiment, the credit input/output mechanism
10 includes a voucher printer 295.  A player provides credit
   to the credit input/output 290 by inputting currency using
   a bill or coin acceptor.  The credit mechanism 290 creates
   a record in credit data 272 having an access code.   A
   voucher is printed by a voucher printer 295.   The voucher
15 has the code on it so that the player can enter at the
   player interface 210 using a virtual key pad.   The game
   controller 220 processes the input code and verifies it
   against records stored as credit data 272.   If the code is
   verified, the amount of credit is associated with the
20 player interface used to enter the code.
   Figure 8 shows a typical player interface 800 having a chip
   stack area 810, a bet manipulation 820 and a bet commitment
   area 830.  Accordingly, bet commitment is an example of
25 function that is carried out in respect of gaming tokens.
   The most common example of a "token" is a chip.   However,
   other tokens such as coins, bank notes or the like may be
   employed.  That is, once tokens are moved to this area the
   bet is committed or placed.  Tokens can be manipulated
30 within the bet manipulation area to form them into token
   sets before they are moved to the bet commitment area.
   Other functions can be carried out by moving the tokens
   from the bet manipulation to another function area.    An
   example is that in some embodiments moving chips to a
35 designated area "passes" the chips to another player by
   causing the chips to be re-allocated to that player.
   With reference to Figure 2, the interface controller
   provides to the display controller, data stored as
40 interface data 273 which specifies which parts of the

   player interface are assigned to the different areas 810,
   820, 830 so that these areas are displayed to a player.
   Token data 275 specifies the number of tokens associated
   with a player interface and their current locations within
 5 the player interface 800.   The touch screen processor 250
   determines when a player touches their player interface and
   employs the token data to determine which token or tokens
   the player has touched.   In embodiments of the present
   invention, a player moves a token by touching the touch
10 screen in the vicinity of token and dragging their finger
   across the screen to a new position.   When the player
   releases or removes their finger from the touch screen the
   movement is completed.  Referring to Figure 3, there is
   shown detail of the touch screen processor 250.   The touch
15 screen processor 250 incorporates a position and movement
   processor 251 for processing raw data from the touch screen
   display to generate date specifying where the user has
   touched the screen.
20 In an alternative mode of control, the position and
   movement processor 251 is configured to detect the speed at
   which a player moves their hand relative to the screen such
   that a player can "flick" a token by rapidly moving their
   finger in a direction they wish the chip to go to impart a
25 vector velocity to the chip.   The position and movement
   processor 251 dampens the movement such that the movement
   cause by a "flick" makes "sense" within the context of the
   user interface, eg. so that the tokens do not travel too
   far.
30
   The token manipulation processor 252, implements
   manipulation rules 276 based on the data received from the
   movement and position processor 259.   One function
   implemented by the manipulation processor 252 is the stack
35 former 254 which acts to group tokens together into a
   stack.  For example if two chips are separately moved into
   the manipulation area 820 and placed so that they overlap,
   the stack former 254 is arranged to group the chips
   together to form a token stack.   The stack splitter 255 is
40 arranged to split a token stack in the following examples.

   The manipulation processor 252 updates the token data 275
   to specify whether tokens are grouped or ungrouped and
   where the tokens are located with respect to the player
   interface at any particular period of time.   Thus, the
 5 manipulation processor 252 in conjunction with the player
   interface and movement and position processor 251 provide a
   token manipulator operable by the player to manipulate
   tokens.
10 A view changer 256, as described in more detail below,
   allows the player to switch between a plan and a side view
   of a pile of tokens in order to manipulate them using the
   stack splitter function.   The function executer 257 carries
   out functions, for example a bet commitment function as
15 described in more detail below.   A special function
   processor 258 implements additional functions.
   In this embodiment there is no limit on the number of
   stacks of chips that can be provided in bet manipulation
20 area 820 other than the practical limits set by the size of
   the manipulation area or the number of chips the player has
   available.   Each stack could consist of a single chip.   In
   one implementation, the arrangement of the chip stacks in
   the bet manipulation area is automatically optimized after
25 a player action.   Such optimizations could consist of
   arranging the stacks of chips in a orthogonal arrangement,
   i.e. into rows and columns of stacks that are aligned
   vertically and/or horizontally or sorting the stacked of
   chips so that the largest stack of chips in the
30 manipulation area is left most.
   Figure 4 shows a gaming system 400 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 400 includes a
   network 401, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
35 Gaming tables 403, are connected to the network 401.    The
   gaming tables 202 provide a player operable interface for
   the gaming system 400.
   One or more displays 404 may also be connected to the
40 network 401.   The displays 404 may, for example, be

    associated with one or more gaming tables 203.   The
    displays 404 may be used to display representations
    associated with game play on the gaming tables 402, and/or
    used to display other representations, for example
  5 promotional or informational material.
    In a thick client embodiment, game server 405 implements
    part of the game played by a players using a gaming table
    403 and the gaming machine 403 implements part of the game.
10  With this embodiment, as both the game server and the
    gaming device implement part of the game, they collectively
    provide a game controller. A database management server 406
    may manage storage of game programs and associated data for
    downloading or access by the gaming devices 402 in a
15  database 406A. Typically, if the gaming system enables
    players to participate in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server
    407 will be provided to monitor and carry out the Jackpot
    game.  A loyalty program server 412 implements a loyalty
    program.
20
    In a thin client embodiment (or networked gaming
    embodiment),  game server 405 implements most or all of the
    game played by a player using a gaming table 403 and the
    gaming table 403 essentially provides only the player
25  interface.   With this embodiment, the game server 405
    provides the game controller. The gaming table 403 will
    receive player instructions, pass these to the game server
    405 which will process them and return game play outcomes
    to the gaming table 403 for display.
30
    Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
    administration of the gaming network 400, including for
    example a gaming floor management server 408, and a
    licensing server 409 to monitor the use of licenses
35  relating to particular games.   An administrator terminal
    410 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
    network 401 and the devices connected to the network.
    The gaming network 400 may communicate with other gaming
40  systems, other local networks, for example a corporate

   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 411.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
 5 accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.   For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a separate
   server may be provided.   For example, the game server 405
10 could run a random generator engine.   Alternatively, a
   separate random number generator server could be provided.
   Further, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
   plurality of games servers could be provided to run
   different games or a single game server may run a plurality
15 of different games as required by the tables 403.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine
   10 is illustrated in Figure 5 which may be configured to
   implement a video poker game for example.   A person skilled
20 in the art will appreciate that in such an embodiment, the
   gaming machine can implement the same functions as
   illustrated in Figures 2 and 3 with the exception that it
   is not required to control multiple interfaces. The gaming
   machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on
25 which is displayed representations of a game 16 that can be
   played by a player.  A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during game
   play.  The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism
30 24 which in this example includes a coin input chute 24A
   and a bill collector 24B.   Other credit input mechanisms
   may also be employed, for example, a card reader for
   reading a smart card, debit card or credit card.   A reading
   device may also be provided for the purpose of reading a
35 player tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty
   program.  The player tracking device may be in the form of
   a card, flash drive or any other portable storage medium
   capable of being read by the reading device.
40 A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example

   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.   Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front panel
   29 of the console 12.  A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath
 5 the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts from the
   gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 5 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
lo device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit.  The top box 26 may also include a display,
   for example a video display unit, which may be of the same
   type as the display 14, or of a different type.
15
   Figure 6 shows a block diagram of operative components of a
   typical gaming machine 10. The gaming machine 10 includes a
   game controller 50 having a processor 52.   Instructions and
   data to control operation of the processor 50 are stored in
20 a memory 53, which is in data communication with the
   processor 52.  Typically, the gaming machine 10 will
   include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than
   one of each type of memory, with such memories being
   collectively represented by the memory 53.
25
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 54 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 55 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming machine
30 100.  The input/output interface 55 and/or the peripheral
   devices may be intelligent devices with their own memory
   for storing associated instructions and data for use with
   the input/output interface or the peripheral devices.   A
   random number generator module 57 generates random numbers
35 for use by the processor 52.  Persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the reference to random numbers
   includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 6, a player interface 60
40 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game

   controller 50 comprise one or more displays 66, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 67, a card and/or ticket reader 68, a
   printer 69, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 62
   and a coin output mechanism 61.  Additional hardware may be
 5 included as part of the gaming machine 10, or hardware may
   be omitted as required for the specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 10 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 56.
10 The network card may, for example, send status information,
   accounting information or other information to a central
   controller, server or database and receive data or commands
   from the central controller, server or database.
15 It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 10 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 66,67,68,69,62,61 to be provided
   remotely from the game controller 50.
20 Figure 7 shows a method of the embodiment.   The
   manipulation area is displayed to the user 710.
   Manipulation instructions are processed 720.   Typically a
   token set is formed 730 within the manipulation area based
   on the initial manipulation instructions, although this
25 step may be bypassed 725.  If tokens are moved to a
   commitment area 740 the function is executed 750 in respect
   of the token set moved to that area.  Otherwise the process
   allows the player to continue by making further
   manipulations.
30
   A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
   invention can be extended to other games such as Black
   Jack, Roulette, "Big Wheel", Sic-Bo and Baccarat.   For
   Roulette, the bet manipulation area can be used as a
35 staging area during the time when no bets are possible
   allowing a person to prepare his bet or bets for the next
   game.  For Black Jack the movement of virtual chips with a
   touch screen can be used as a substitute for having to
   press a button such as "double down" button, instead a
40 player would move his chips from the stack into the bet

   area.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that while the
   above technique advantageously employs touch screen
 5 technology, other controller devices such as a pointing
   device could be used to manipulate the tokens.    Similarly,
   navigation buttons in combination with one or more action
   buttons to could be employed.
10 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the above
   touch screen based techniques could be provided in
   conjunction with a conventional technology for allowing a
   player to select bet types in order that they can have the
   choice as to how they manipulate chips.
15
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that while the
   above embodiments describe moving chips into a commitment
   area before a function is committed.   In some embodiments,
   simply moving the tokens outside of the manipulation area
20 could cause a function to be executed in respect of the
   token sets.
   In other embodiments, the person skilled in the art will
   appreciate that a player may be required to confirm an
   action.   For example, if there is some doubt as to whether
25 a player has moved their chips outside of the area, such as
   when 90% of the area of chips has been moved into the
   commitment area, a player may be asked to confirm their
   instructions.
30 Examples
   Example 1
   Figures 9 to 16 are examples of how a player can build a
35 bet using the technique of the embodiment.   In Figure 9,
   the player has a chip stack area 810 that displays the
   players token balance and where the chips are initially
   arranged.   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that
   the chip stack area effectively provides a sub-area of the
40 manipulation area in this embodiment where "un-manipulated"

   chips are located.  A person skilled in the art will
   appreciate that provided sufficient space is provided
   within the manipulation area 820 to separate out chips from
   those of a player's original chip stack, a separate chip
 5 stack area need not be provided.   In the example of Figure
   9, a player has 575 chips as indicated by total counter
   822.  Initially, these are split into the first pile of
   five "100" denomination chips 812 and a second pile of
   three "25" denomination chips.   In this example, the player
10 wishes to make a bet of 125.   The player touches the stack
   of 100 chips on the left and holding his finger down, moves
   his finger across the touch screen as indicated in Figure
   10, this causes one chip 813 to become detached from the
   pile of 100 chips which is revised to show a total of 400
15 in 100 denomination chips 812a.
   Once the player moves the token to the manipulation area,
   as shown in Figure 11 the token forms an initial token set
   823 of a total of 100.  A bet indicator 821 is added at
20 this point to indicate that the player has a bet of 100.
   Note that the player could have moved the token directly to
   the commitment area 830 should he have chosen to commit the
   bet immediately as shown as a possible scenario in Figure
   12.  However in the present example, the player wishes to
25 place a bet of 125 accordingly as shown in Figure 13, the
   player places his finger on the stack of chips 814 and
   starts to move a 25 denomination chip 815 into the
   manipulation area.
30 It is important to note that in some games the player is
   only able to make a bet in one motion.   That is, moving two
   chips into play in two separate motions is called a
   "string" bet and is illegal.   Therefore, for such games it
   is important that there is bet manipulation area that
35 allows a player to manipulate bets separately from the
   action of finalising a bet for the player to build bets
   comprised of multiple chips.
   The player has a number of options.   He could continue to
40 move his finger from the position illustrated in Figure 13

   via the position of chip 815 to outside the manipulation
   area causing him to commit a bet of 25.   In this case the
   100 chip would be automatically returned to the chip stack.
   Alternatively, the player could move his finger until the
 5 25 chip is at rest 825 somewhere else inside the
   manipulation area as indicated in Figure 14.   Note that the
   bet amount 821a has been updated to a total of 125 to
   indicate that total number of units within the bet
   manipulation area.   Thus it will be apparent that the bet
10 manipulation area is a work area for the player.   The
   player can move chips within this area with this finger
   however he likes.   In situations where other players can
   see his manipulation area, the player can play with his
   chips much like players do with real chips.   As shown in
15 Figure 15, the player subsequently moves the 25 chip so
   that it overlaps the 100 chip 823 so that a new token set
   826 is formed as illustrated in figure 15.   That is, the
   two chips are combined into a single value "125" chip,
   representing the stack of both chips: a "token set".   A
20 person skilled in the art will appreciate that this 125
   chip could be shown in a perspective or 3D view instead of
   a plan view as in Figure 15.   The stack can be represented
   in a number of different ways.   For example the 125 chip
   could be represented by an inner disk and an outer
25 concentric ring, each which could be different colours
   representing different denominations that make up the chip.
   Further, a 100 denomination chip could be shown as being
   larger than a 25 denomination chip.
30 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the stack
   former 254 of Figure 3 judges when the chips overlap
   sufficiently for it to determine that a stack should be
   formed.  Once the stack has been formed, these chips are
   effectively grouped for further manipulation unless they
35 are subsequently split using one of the techniques
   described below.
   As indicated in Figure 16, the player can move the "125
   chip" 820 to the commitment area 830 where it is shown a
40 committed bet 833a.   As can be seen from Figure 16, the

   players total 822b is updated to show that the player has
   450 chips left.  In order to cancel a bet, a player moves
   the token set back 816 to the chips stack area 810 as
   illustrated in Figure 17.
 5
   Note that in this example, the chip stack area is arranged
   so that no matter where the 125 chip is placed within the
   chip stack area, it is automatically split up and added to
   the correct piles such that once the player removes his
10 finger from the screen, the screen reverts to the position
   shown in Figure 9.
   Example 2
15 Example 2 illustrates how a player can manipulate more than
   one chip at one time.   Referring to Figure 18, a stack of
   five 100 chips 812 includes a view change "hot spot" 819.
   Touching this segment activates the view changer 256, to
   display the stack of chips in side view 818 as shown in
20 Figure 19.  A player places their finger so as to touch the
   third chip from the top. In this manner the top three chips
   are selected as indicated by moving chip stack 813 in
   Figure 20.  That is,  the player only needs to touch one of
   the chips to move a pile of three chips.   As indicated in
25 Figure 21, the player then has a bet amount 1821 and a
   token or chip set 1823 valued at 300 chips displayed in the
   manipulation area.   Note that this stack of chips still
   contains a hot spot 1829 indicating that a player can
   change the view by manipulating them.
30
   As shown Figure 22, a player can drag a 25 chip from the
   stack 814a to the set of chips 823a.   The view change
   hotspot 1829 is still present and the bet mount is updated
   1821a.
35
   In Figure 23, a player has activated the hot spot to change
   to the side view 1828 in respect of the set of chips.    Note
   that in this case the 25 chip is a different colour to the
   100 chip.  This allows the invention to be implemented
40 without a number being shown on the side of each chip.

   As described in relation to Figure 20, the player can split
   the chip stack by selecting one of the chips so that the
   stack is divided into chips comprising the lowest chip
 5 touched by the player and the other chips.   In this case
   the stack is split into two stacks 1823a of 200 chips and
   1823b of 125 chips as illustrated in Figure 24.   A person
   skilled in the art will appreciate that these chips can be
   split again or moved in some other manner.
10
   Example 3
   In some games such as Poker or Black Jack there are times
   when the player can be offered special functions that save
15 time without compromising the player experience.   In this
   example, three additional special functions are present in
   the form of an "all-in" button 841, a "call" button 842 and
   a raise button 843.   Each button displayed graphically on
   the player user interface 810.   In this display the player
20 initially has five 100 chips 2512 and three 25 chips 2514.
   In this example a bet of 50 has been made by an opposing
   player.   In such a situation, the player needs to decide
   whether to make a call, raise, or fold.   If the player
   wants to make a call he can simply touch the call 50 button
25 represented as a chip which will create a virtual chip of
   the correct value to make a call a bet.   In this case a
   value of 50.   Similarly if the player wants to make a
   minimum raise, eg. raise 50, the player touches the raise
   button 843.   Note once the special button is touched, it
30 changes to represent the actual chip value and the chip
   stacks are adjusted accordingly.   Prior to this the chip
   stacks are not adjusted because the special chips do not
   have the value until touched.   So, if the raise 50 chip is
   selected, the display of Figure 26 is shown where the raise
35 chip has been changed so that there is a display of 100
   chip 843a and the bet amount 2521 is updated to show 100.
   Similarly, the chip stack 2512a has been modified to show
   only 400 chips.   It should be noted that as in the previous
   examples, the bet is not binding to the chip leaves the bet
40 manipulation area.   Plus the player at this point could

   perform further manipulation.
   A third special function is drawn as a bar on the display
   in Figure 25 is an "all-in" button 841.   If the player
 5 touches and drags this finger on the screen from this bar
   it causes all of the chips in his stack to be moved into
   the bet manipulation area.  Then if the chip stack is
   dragged outside the box into the commitment area the bet is
   committed.  Once the all in button is pushed, the 575 chip
10 stacks 2512 and 2514 shown in Figure 5 emerged in a single
   stack 2523 as shown in Figure 27.
   Example 4
15 During the selection of multiple chips an alternative could
   be provided in the form of an indicator 820 as illustrated
   in Figure 28; in order to allow a player to split a stack
   2810 of chips by moving their finger over the indicator
   2820 until it reaches a position where they can provide the
20 desired splitting of the stack.   The value that will be
   split off the stack can be displayed 2830 to the player.
   Example 5
25 A further technique for splitting a stack of chips shown in
   Figure 29, where a player has placed a stack of 500 chips
   2923 to form a token set in the manipulation area and the
   bet amount of 500 is shown as 2921.   An additional stack
   split hot spot is placed on the top of the chip 2927.    If
30 the player touches the hotspot 2927, the chip image could
   be split or "coloured down" to the next lowest
   denomination.  In this case this would be 5 x 100
   denomination chips as indicated in Figure 30 where there
   are five 100 chips 2923a to 2923e.
35
   If the stack is mixed, a stack can either be split in
   accordance with certain rules - eg. to split the 125 chips
   from one another or different options can be presented to
   the player to split the chips based on the available
40 denominations.  For example, an alternative denomination

   may be 250 and accordingly a player may be offered the
   opportunity to split the stack into five 100 chips and
   three 25 chips or two 250 chips and three 25 chips.
 5 Various other modifications will be apparent to a person
   skilled in the art and should be considered as falling
   within the scope of the invention described herein. In
   particular, features of the above embodiments and examples
   can be combined to form further embodiments.
10
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description
   of the invention, except where the context requires
   otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
   the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
15 "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify
   the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various
   embodiments of the invention.
20 It is to be understood that the reference to prior art
   herein does not constitute an admission that the prior art
   forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art.

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A gaming system comprising:
             a display;
 5           a display controller arranged to control the
   display to display a common gaming area and a plurality of
   player interfaces, each player interface each displayed
   separately of the common gaming area comprising a token
   stack area, a manipulation area, a commitment area, and one
10 or more tokens of the player; and
             the player interface of each player comprising a
   token manipulator operable by the respective player to form
   a plurality of separate  token sets of the player
   concurrently within the manipulation area of the player
15 from the one or more tokens of the player;
             wherein the token manipulator is operable by the
   player to independently move one or more of the plurality
   of token sets of the player from the token stack area to
   the manipulation area for manipulation within the
20 manipulation area to form a token set to be used as a bet
   amount and moving the token set to be used as a bet amount
   to the commitment area of the player whereafter the token
   set to be used as a bet amount is committed as a bet for
   play of the gaming system.
25
   2.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   token manipulator comprises a stack former to allow the
   player to form a token set consisting of a stack of tokens.
30 3.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
   wherein the token manipulator comprises a value indicator
   for indicating a current value of a token set.
   4.        A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
35 to 3, wherein the display controller is arranged to display
   tokens of different denominations separately in the token
   stack area.
   5.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
40 token manipulator is operable to select an entire stack.

   6.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
   token manipulator is operable to select a single token of a
   stack.
 5
   7.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
   token manipulator comprises a stack splitter operable by
   the player to split a stack of tokens.
10 8.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
   token manipulator comprises a stack view changer operable
   by the player to change a view of the a stack of tokens.
   9.        A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
15 to 8, wherein the display controller further displays a
   special function button operable by a player to perform a
   special function in relation to a token set.
   10.       A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
20 to 9, wherein the display provides a touch screen display
   and the player manipulates the tokens by touching their
   representations on the touch screen display.
   11.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 10, wherein
25 the player moves a touched token by maintaining contact
   with the token until a desired new location for the token
   is reached.
   12.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 10, comprising
30 a velocity vector calculator for calculating a velocity
   vector from a player movement relative to the touch screen
   display and wherein the token manipulator is arranged to
   move a touched token based on the calculated velocity.
35 13.       An interface for a gaming system comprising:
             a display arranged to display a common gaming area
   and a plurality of player interfaces each displayed
   separately of the common gaming area, each player interface
   comprising a token stack area, a manipulation area, a
40 commitment area and one or more tokens of the player; and

              the player interface of each player comprising a
   token manipulator operable by the respective player to form
   a plurality of separate token sets concurrently within the
   manipulation area from the one or more tokens;
 5           wherein the token manipulator is operable by the
   player to independently move one or more of the plurality
   of token sets from the token stack area to the manipulation
   area for manipulation within the manipulation area to form
   a token set to be used as a bet amount and moving the token
10 set to be used as a bet amount to the commitment area of
   the player whereafter the token set to be used as a bet
   amount is committed as a bet for play of the gaming system.
   14.       A player interface as claimed in claim 13, wherein
15 the token manipulator comprises a stack former to allow the
   player to form a token set consisting of a stack of tokens.
   15.       A player interface as claimed in claim 13 or claim
   14, wherein the token manipulator comprises a value
20 indicator for indicating a current value of a token set.
   16.       A player interface as claimed in any one of claims
   13 to 15, wherein the display is arranged to display a
   token balance area which displays, at least initially, all
25 of a player's tokens.
   17.       A player interface as claimed in any one of claims
   13 to 16, wherein the display is arranged to display tokens
   of different denominations separately in the token stack
30 area.
   18.       A player interface as claimed in claim 14, wherein
   the token manipulator is operable to select an entire stack
   of tokens.
35
   19.       A player interface as claimed in claim 14, wherein
   the token manipulator is operable to select a single token
   of a stack of tokens.
40 20.       A player interface as claimed in claim 14, wherein

   the token manipulator comprises a stack splitter operable
   by the player to split a stack of tokens.
   21.       A player interface claimed in claim 14, wherein
 5 the token manipulator comprises a stack view changer
   operable by the player to change a view of the a stack of
   tokens.
   22.       A player interface as claimed in any one of claims
10 13 to 21, wherein the display is arranged to display a
   special function button operable by a player to perform a
   special function in relation to a token set.
   23.       A player interface as claimed in any one of claims
15 13 to 21, wherein the display is a touch screen display and
   the player manipulates the tokens by touching their
   representations on the touch screen display.
   24.       A player interface as claimed in claim 23, wherein
20 the player moves a touched token by maintaining contact
   with the token until a desired new location for the token
   is reached.
   25.       A method of gaming comprising:
25           displaying a common gaming area and a plurality of
   player interfaces each displayed separately of the common
   gaming area, each player interface comprising a token stack
   area, a manipulation area, a commitment area and one or
   more tokens of the player on a display;
30           receiving via a player interface of a player, one
   or more token manipulation instructions from the player;
             forming a plurality of token sets of the player
   concurrently within the manipulation area from the one or
   more tokens based on the one or more token manipulation
35 instructions; and
             determining that the player has independently
   moved one or more of the token sets from the token stack
   area to the manipulation area for manipulation within the
   manipulation area to form a token set to be used as a bet
40 amount and moving the token set to be used as a bet amount

   to the commitment area of the player whereafter the token
   set to be used as a bet amount is committed as a bet for
   play of the gaming system.
 5 26.       A method as claimed in claim 25, comprising
   forming a token set consisting of a stack of tokens.
   27.       A method as claimed in claim 24 or claim 25,
   comprising indicating a current value of a token set.
10
   28.       A method as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 27,
   comprising controlling the display to initially display all
   of a player's tokens in the token balance area.
15 29.       A method as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 28,
   comprising displaying tokens of different denominations
   separately in the token display area.
   30.       A method as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 29,
20 comprising further displaying a special function button
   operable by a player to perform a special function in
   relation to a token set.
   31.       Computer program code which when executed by a
25 computer causes the computer to implement the method of any
   one of claims 25 to 30.
   32.       A computer readable medium comprising the computer
   program code of claim 31.
30
   33.       A data signal comprising the computer program code
   of claim 31.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
