   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174_.docx-25/062018
                                                                - 23
                                                     ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
   A request for a funds transfer is received in a computer. The request includes addressing
   information for an individual recipient of the requested funds transfer. The computer retrieves
 5 identification information that identifies a service provider for the recipient. A request is
   routed from the computer to a service provider by using the service provider identification
   information.                 The request to the service provider is for requesting recipient account
   information. The computer receives a payment account number from the service provider.
   The payment account number identifies a payment account that belongs to the recipient. The
10 computer executes the requested funds transfer by routing the funds transfer to the recipient's
   payment account using the received payment account number.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
   PAYMENT NETWORK WITH SERVICE PROVIDER DIRECTORY FUNCTION
   Cross Reference to Related Applications
 5 This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 62/012,099
   filed on June 13, 2014; and 62/012,288 filed on June 14, 2014, the contents of which
   applications are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.
   The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
10 2015274982, as originally filed and as amended, is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a method for executing a funds transfer between a computer of
15 a service provider of a sender and a computer of a service provider of a recipient without
   requiring a recipient to disclose account information to the sender.
   Background of the Invention
20 It has previously been proposed to utilize a payment card account system to implement
   person-to-person payments. One such system is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 8,271,362, which
   is assigned to MasterCard International Incorporated, the assignee hereof.
   One challenge that is faced in implementing such systems (sometimes referred to as "P2P" or
25 "personal payments" systems) is obtaining the account information needed to route the
   payment transaction to the intended recipient. This same issue may be faced in connection
   with other types of payment transactions as well. One issue that increases the difficulty in
   solving this challenge is that potential funds transfer recipients may often be reluctant to
   disclose potentially sensitive information such as their bank account number or their payment
30 account number.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          -2
   It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above described
   difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
   Summary of the Invention
 5
   In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a method for executing a funds
   transfer between a computer of a service provider of a sender and a computer of a service
   provider of a recipient without requiring a recipient to disclose account information to the
   sender, comprising:
10                receiving, via a network, in a computer of a service provider of a sender, a request
   from a device of the sender for a funds transfer, the request including addressing information
   for an individual recipient of the funds transfer;
                  retrieving, by the computer of the service provider of the sender, identification
   information, corresponding to said addressing information for an individual recipient of the
15 funds transfer, that identifies a service provider for the recipient;
                  routing, via the network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, a
   request to the service provider of the recipient by using the recipient's service provider
   identification information, the request from the computer of the service provider of the sender
   requesting recipient account information;
20                receiving, in the computer of the service provider of the sender, from the service
   provider of the recipient, a payment account number that identifies a payment account that
   belongs to the recipient; and
                   executing the requested funds transfer without requiring the recipient to disclose
   account information to the sender, in the computer of the service provider of the sender, by
25 routing the funds transfer to the recipient's payment account using the received payment
   account number.
   In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a method for executing a funds
   transfer between a computer of a service provider of a sender and a computer of a service
30 provider of a recipient without requiring the recipient to disclose account information to the
   sender, comprising:

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          -3
                  receiving, via a network, in a computer of a service provider of the sender, a request
   from a device of the sender for a funds transfer, the request including an alias identifier for a
   recipient of the funds transfer, the request not including a destination account number for the
   funds transfer;
 5                based on the alias identifier, looking up, using the computer of the service provider of
   the sender, a service provider for the recipient;
                   obtaining, via the network, from a computer of the service provider of the recipient, the
   destination account number, the obtaining being performed by the computer of the service
   provider of the sender;
10                 inserting the obtained destination account number in the request; and
                  routing, via the network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, the
   request based on the inserted destination account number, without requiring a recipient to
   disclose account information to the sender.
15 In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a method for executing a funds
   transfer between a computer of a service provider of a sender and a computer of a service
   provider of a recipient without requiring a recipient to disclose account information to the
   sender, comprising:
                   storing, in a computer, a directory database, said directory database storing a plurality
20 of entries, each of said entries corresponding to an alias identifier for a respective payment
   system user, said each entry indicating a recipient service provider that corresponds to the
   respective payment system user;
                  receiving, via a network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, a
   look-up request, the look-up request containing an alias identifier for a payment recipient; and
25                responding to the look-up request by returning, via the network, to the computer of the
   service provider of the sender, a recipient service provider identifier, wherein said recipient
   service provider identifier is stored in said directory database in association with the recipient
   alias identifier, without requiring a recipient to disclose account information to the sender.
30 Brief Description of the Drawings

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          -4
   Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of non
   limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   FIG. 1 is a block diagram representation of a personal payments system;
 5 FIG. 2 is a block diagram that presents another view of the system of FIG. 1, particularly
   within the context of a single payment transaction;
   FIG. 3 is a block diagram of a computer system that provides part of the functionality of the
   system of FIGS. 1 and 2;
   FIG. 3A is a block diagram of a computer system that provides part of the functionality of the
10 system of FIGS. 1 and 2;
   FIG. 3B is a simplified tabular illustration of a directory database that may be maintained in
   the computer system of FIG. 3A;
   FIG. 4 is a flow chart that illustrates a process that may be performed in the system of FIGS. 1
   and 2;
15 FIG. 4A is a flow chart that illustrates a process that may be performed in the system of FIGS.
    1 and 2; and
   FIGS. 5 and 6 are example screen displays that may be provided to a payment transaction
   recipient in the system of FIGS. 1 and 2.
20 Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
   In general, and for the purpose of introducing concepts of embodiments of the present
   invention, a directory function may be established in a central manner in a payments system.
   For example, the directory function may be associated with a payment network. Potential
25 funds transfer recipients may be identified in the directory by contact information including
   one or more of e-mail address, mobile phone number and/or name plus residence address. The
   directory entry for the potential recipient may also indicate the standard system institution
   identifier for the financial institution or other service provider through which the potential
   recipient participates in the system. When a funds transfer transaction is initiated in which the
30 recipient is identified by an identifier (such as an email address, phone number, or other
   identifier) and/or other contact information, the directory function looks up the recipient's

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          -5
   entry and retrieves the service provider identifier. The payment network then requests the
   recipient's account number from the indicated service provider (which may be performed
   substantially in real-time or during the course of a single session or interaction). The payment
   network receives the recipient's account number from the service provider and routes the
 5 requested payment transaction using the recipient's account number using an appropriate
   network (such as a payment card network, a clearinghouse network, a mobile network or the
   like).
   The term "personal payments" is used generally herein to refer to payments to persons or other
10 entities from a business, government, non-profit or other person or entity. As an example, a
   consumer could give their email address to a business (such as, for example, AT&T) when the
   consumer purchases an AT&T mobile phone. For example, AT&T may offer a $20 rebate.
   Instead of providing the $20 rebate in the form of a gift card, AT&T may use the system of the
   present embodiment to provide the rebate as a credit to an account of the consumer (such as
15 the consumer's debit card account). Using the system of the present embodiment, AT&T
   could request payment of the $20 rebate to the consumer's email address to cause the $20 to
   be credited to an account of the consumer.
   The term "payment transaction" generally refers to transactions across a network such as a
20 transaction involving a payment card network, a clearing house network (such as an "ACH"
   transaction or the like), a mobile money network or the like.
   Teachings from the present disclosure may provide a method for independent P2P systems to
   interoperate so that a funds-transfer sender can use service provider A (e.g., an FT or digital
25 P2P service provider) and the payment can be received by the recipient who has registered
   with service provider B to make P2P payments. The interoperability of the service providers
   allows for payments to be made to the recipient without disclosing the recipient's private
   account information.
30 FIG. 1 is a block diagram representation of a personal payments system 100 provided in
   accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                                        -6
   A central role in the system 100 is played by a payment network 102. The payment network
    102 may be similar in many respects to a conventional payment network such as the well
   known Banknet payment network that is operated by MasterCard International Incorporated,
 5 which is the assignee hereof. In addition to its conventional features, the payment network
    102 may have a personal payments directory function (block 104) associated therewith.
   The system 100 may also include numerous financial institutions (FIs) 106 as participants
   therein. The FIs 106 may issue payment card accounts to system users 108, and may be in
10 communication with the payment network 102 for the purposes of requesting and receiving
   funds transfer transactions, and also for the purpose of enrolling users 108 in the personal
   payments directory 104.                               (To simplify the drawing, users 108 are explicitly shown as
   associated with only one of the FIs 106; nevertheless it should be understood that all of the FIs
    106 have customers who are users of the system 100.) In connection with the system 100, the
15 FIs act as personal payment service providers to their customer/users 108.
   The system 100 may also include other service providers 110, which are not FIs.                               For
   example, mobile network operators (MNOs) and/or payment service providers (PSPs) may
   also act as personal payment service providers to additional customer/users 108. (Again to
20 simplify the drawing, users 108 are explicitly shown as associated with only one of the non-Fl
   service providers 110, but it should be understood that all of the non-Fl service providers 110
   have customers who are users of the system 100.) The non-Fl service providers 110 are also
   in communication with the payment network 102 with respect to personal payment
   transactions and for the purpose of enrolling users 108 in the personal payments directory 104.
25 Some users 108 may receive services from more than one of the FIs 106/service providers
    110.
   When a service provider 106 or 110 enrolls a user 108 in the personal payments directory 104,
   the resulting entry may, in some embodiments and/or in some situations take a minimal form.
30 In the minimal form, the entry may include just (a) an alias for the user, such as the user's
   mobile phone number; and (b) an identifier for the user's service provider such as an ICA

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          -7
   (Interbank Card Association) number or a unique account number and payment service
   provider identifier. In other cases or in other embodiments, the entry for the user may also
   include, e.g., the user's name and/or additional contact information for the user; and may also
   include the user's payment card account number or other account identifying information.
 5 (An example embodiment of a directory database will be discussed below in connection with
   FIG. 3B.)
   It should be understood that each block shown in FIG. 1 represents not only an entity/system
   participant, but also represents a respective computing device operated by the respective
10 entity/system participant. For example, each user 108 may interact with the system 100 by
   using a device such as a conventional smartphone, tablet computer, personal computer or
   laptop computer. Each service provider 106 or 110 may operate one or more computers,
   which may be conventional in their hardware embodiments, and which may be programmed to
   participate in the system 100 as described herein. Further, the payment network 102 may be
15 constituted at least in part by one or more computers; consequently, block 102 should also be
   deemed to represent a payment network computer system. Details of the payment network
   computer system 102 will be described below, in connection with FIGS. 3 and 4.
   FIG. 2 is a block diagram that presents another view of the system 100, particularly within the
20 context of a single payment transaction. Reference will now be made to FIG. 2.
   A sender 108-1 for a particular payment transaction may interact with his/her service provider
   (the "sending institution" or "payment originator") 106-1 to request that the transaction take
   place. The sending institution 106-1 may route the transaction via the payment network 102 to
25 the service provider (the "receiving institution") 106-2 for the transaction recipient 108-2. The
   receiving institution 106-2 may inform the recipient 108-2 that the payment transaction has
   taken place.
   (It is in a sense assumed in the above description of FIG. 2 that the sending and receiving
30 institutions are FIs. However, this need not necessarily be the case. For example, either or
   both of the sending institution and the receiving institution may be non-Fl service providers.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                                      -8
   In such situations it will often be the case that an FT is associated in the background with the
   non-Fl service provider to facilitate connectivity to the payment network 102.)
   In some embodiments, the sender may make the initial request for a payment transaction to a
 5 non-Fl service provider (not shown in FIG. 2), which will then forward the request to the
   sending institution.
   Embodiments of the present disclosure are particularly relevant to situations in which the
   sender 108-1 does not/cannot identify the recipient 108-2 by the recipient's payment card
10 account number or by other routing information (such as, for example, a mobile phone
   number, an email address, or the like).
   While not shown in FIG. 2, other entities or devices may also participate in the system. For
   example, a service provider offering payment services may be involved in some transactions
15 or systems. The service provider may facilitate transactions between a sender 108-1 and a
   sending institution 106-1.                             Other service providers may also be involved in some
   embodiments.
   FIG. 3 is a block diagram that illustrates an embodiment of the payment network computer
20 system 102 represented in FIGS. 1 and 2. It should be understood that the computer system
   may also encompass, or have associated with it, computing resources that implement the
   directory function 104 (FIG. 1). Alternatively, the directory function may be implemented on
   a separate computer from the payment network computer system 102; an illustration of this
   situation occurs in FIG. 3A, which will be discussed below.
25
   Referring, then, to FIG. 3, the payment network computer system 102 may be conventional in
   its hardware embodiments but may be controlled by software to cause it to function as
   described herein. For example, the payment network computer system 102 may be constituted
   by conventional server computer and/or mainframe computer hardware.
30
   The payment network computer system 102 may include a computer processor 300

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          -9
   operatively coupled to a communication device 301, a storage device 304, an input device 306
   and an output device 308.
   The computer processor 300 may be constituted by one or more conventional processors.
 5 Processor 300 operates to execute processor-executable steps, contained in program
   instructions described below, so as to control the payment network computer system 102 to
   provide desired functionality.
   Communication device 301 may be used to facilitate communication with, for example, other
10 devices (such as computers operated by service providers 106, 110).            For example
   communication device 301 may comprise numerous communication ports (not separately
   shown), to allow the payment network computer system 102 to communicate simultaneously
   with a number of other devices and computers, including communications as required to
   receive and execute numerous requests for payment transactions.
15
   Input device 306 may comprise one or more of any type of peripheral device typically used to
   input data into a computer. For example, the input device 306 may include a keyboard and a
   mouse. Output device 308 may comprise, for example, a display and/or a printer.
20 Storage device 304 may comprise any appropriate information storage device, including
   combinations of magnetic storage devices (e.g., magnetic tape and hard disk drives), optical
   storage devices such as CDs and/or DVDs, and/or semiconductor memory devices such as
   Random Access Memory (RAM) devices and Read Only Memory (ROM) devices, as well as
   so-called flash memory. Any one or more of such information storage devices may be
25 considered to be a computer-readable storage medium or a computer usable medium or a
   memory.
   Storage device 304 stores one or more programs for controlling processor 300. The programs
   comprise program instructions (which may be referred to as computer readable program code
30 means) that contain processor-executable process steps of the payment network computer
   system 102, executed by the processor 300 to cause the payment network computer system

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 10
    102 to function as described herein.
   The programs may include one or more conventional operating systems (not shown) that
   control the processor 300 so as to manage and coordinate activities and sharing of resources in
 5 the payment network computer system 102, and to serve as a host for application programs
   that run on the payment network computer system 102.
   The programs stored in the storage device 304 may also include a transaction handling
   application program 310 that enables the payment network computer system 102 to provide
10 functionality supported by conventional payment networks for payment card systems,
   including handling of payment transactions that transfer funds from a sender's payment card
   account to a recipient's payment card account. Moreover, the storage device 304 may also
   store an application program 312 that enables the payment network computer system 102 to
   handle requests for funds transfers in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.
15 In addition, the storage device 304 may store a program module or utility 314 that augments
   conventional payment transaction handling by enabling the payment network computer system
    102 to interact with user/service provider directory functionality as described herein. For
   example, the programs stored in the storage device 304 may control the processor 300 to
   provide functionality as described below in connection with FIG. 4.
20
   Other programs stored in the storage device 304 may include a reporting application, which
   may respond to requests from system administrators for reports on the activities performed by
   the payment network computer system 102, communication software, device drivers, etc.
   The storage device 304 may also store one or more databases 316 required for operation of the
25 payment network computer system 102. Such databases 312 may include, for example, a
   database for storing data related to payment card account system transactions handled by the
   payment network computer system 102. Additional databases as required for operation of the
   payment network computer system 102 may also be included among the databases 316
   indicated in FIG. 3.
30
   FIG. 3A is a block diagram representation of a computer system that embodies the directory

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 11
   functionality represented by block 104. Accordingly, the computer system illustrated in FIG.
   3A will sometimes be referred to as the "directory computer 104". It should be understood
   that the hardware and software resources described with reference to FIG. 3A may, in some
   embodiments, be at least partially integrated with the payment network computer system 102
 5 illustrated in FIG. 3.
   The directory computer 104, to the extent that it is separate from the payment network
   computer system 102, may have the same sort of hardware architecture as was described
   above in connection with the description of the payment network computer system 102 in
10 conjunction with FIG. 3. Thus, the directory computer 104 may include, for example, a
   processor 350, a communication device 351, a storage device 354, an input device 356 and an
   output device 358. At least some of the components of directory computer 104 may be in
   communication with each other. The components enumerated in this paragraph may resemble,
   in their hardware and functional embodiments, the components of the payment network
15 computer system 102, as described above in connection with FIG. 3. However, the directory
   computer 104 (to the extent it is separate from the payment network computer system 102)
   may be programmed in a different manner from the payment network computer system 102 so
   that the former computer system provides different functionality from the latter computer
   system.
20
   The programs stored in the storage device 354 of the directory computer 104 may include one
   or more application programs (block 360) to program the directory computer 104 to build,
   maintain and update a directory database 362 that serves as a resource for service provider
   look-up functionality as described herein. Moreover, the programs stored in the storage device
25 354 may also include a program module 364 which programs the directory computer 104 to
   handle and respond to requests for directory look-ups. The storage device 354 may further
   store other programs and databases (not explicitly shown) as required for operation of the
   directory computer 104. Functionality provided by the directory computer 104 will be further
   described below in connection with FIG. 4A.
30
   FIG. 3B is a simplified tabular illustration of an embodiment of the directory database 362

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          - 12
   shown in FIG. 3A. Each row shown in FIG. 3B represents a respective entry for a user of the
   system shown in FIGS. 1 and 2. The data fields in column 382 represent user email addresses
   that may serve as alias identifiers for users/funds transfer recipients. The data fields in column
   384 represent user mobile telephone numbers that may serve as alias identifiers for users/funds
 5 transfer recipients. It will be noted that in the case of some user entries, the respective entry
   may include both types of alias identifiers; i.e., both an email address and a mobile telephone
   number. In some embodiments, other types of user identifiers may also or alternatively be
   employed. Just one example of another type of user identifier may be an assumed name or
   "handle" or "alias" that a gaming system participant may use in connection with his/her
10 gaming activities.
   In column 386, each data field contains the standard system identifier code for the service
   provider for the user that corresponds to the respective data entry/row. Thus the database 362
   may be used to look up the user's service provider (more precisely, to look up the identifier for
15 the user's service provider) based on one or more alias identifiers for the user. In the
   particular example illustrated in FIG. 3B, the service provider identifiers are shown as
   consisting of six digits, but identifiers of other lengths (e.g., four digits) and/or including at
   least some non-numeric characters, may alternatively be used.
20 FIG. 4 is a flow chart that illustrates a process that may be performed in the system 100 in
   accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In particular, the functions illustrated
   in FIG. 4 may be performed by the payment network computer system 102. For the example
   process illustrated in FIG. 4, it is assumed that a payment transaction request is received by the
   payment network computer system 102, that the recipient is identified by an alias (such as the
25 recipient's mobile phone number or e-mail address) and not by the recipient's payment card
   account number, that the recipient is listed under the alias in an entry in the directory function
    104, and that the listing for the recipient does not include the recipient's payment card account
   number or other account information by which the transaction can be routed for the recipient's
   benefit.
30
   At block 402 in FIG. 4, the payment network computer system 102 receives a payment

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 13
   transaction request as described immediately above. The recipient's alias, as referred to
   above, may be considered addressing information for the requested payment transaction. A
   problem to be solved by the process of FIG. 4 is that the payment transaction request does not
   provide information required to immediately route the payment transaction via the payment
 5 network.
   At block 404, the payment network computer system 102 accesses the directory function 104
   to retrieve the user's entry, based on the alias contained in the request, and more specifically,
   to retrieve the identifier (or identifiers) for the recipient's service provider or providers.
10 (There may be more than one service provider for the recipient, because the recipient may
   have more than one payment card account-or other account-registered in the system 100,
   possibly provided by more than one service provider.)
   Decision block 406 may follow block 404. At decision block 406, the payment network
15 computer system 102 determines whether more than one service provider is listed in the
   directory entry for the transaction recipient. If not (i.e., if there is only one service provider
   listed for the recipient), then the process of FIG. 4 may advance from decision block 406 to
   block 408. At block 408, the payment network computer system 102 uses the service provider
   identifier (e.g., an ICA number or the like) to identify the recipient's service provider, and the
20 payment network computer system 102 then proceeds to request the recipient's payment
   account number from the recipient's service provider.
   Block 410 may follow block 408. At block 410, the payment network computer system 102
   may receive the recipient's payment account number from the recipient's service provider. At
25 this point, the payment network computer system 102 has all the information it needs to route
   the payment transaction in a conventional manner for the benefit of the indicated recipient.
   Accordingly block 412 follows block 410. Block 412 represents routing of the payment
   transaction by the payment network computer system 102 using the recipient's payment
   account number that was received at 410; block 412 further represents completion of the
30 requested payment transaction. Processing at 410 may include receiving any of a variety of
   different payment account numbers such as, for example, a payment card account number, a

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          - 14
   bank account number, a mobile money account number or the like. The routing at 412 may
   include routing to a number of different networks, such as, for example, a payment card
   network, a clearing house network (such as the ACH), a mobile money network, or the like.
 5 Referring again to decision block 406, if the payment network computer system 102 makes a
   positive determination at that decision block (i.e., if the payment network computer system
    102 determines that more than one service provider is listed in the recipient's entry in the user
   directory), then the process of FIG. 4 may advance from decision block 406 to block 414.
10 At block 414, the payment network computer system 102 may send a message to the recipient
   (e.g., via e-mail or mobile text messaging) to request that the recipient select which account
   the payment transaction should be routed to. For example, the message from the payment
   network computer system 102 to the recipient may result in a screen display such as FIG. 5
   being displayed on the recipient's device.
15
   Referring to FIG. 5, at 502 the recipient is informed that the payment transaction has been
   requested and the recipient, in turn, is requested to select the account that the recipient wishes
   to have the funds routed to.
20 At 504 in FIG. 5, the recipient's accounts registered in the system are listed to allow the
   recipient to select one of those accounts. Upon the recipient selecting one of the accounts, the
   recipient's device may send a message back to the payment network computer system 102 to
   indicate the selection.
25 Referring again to FIG. 4, decision block 416 follows block 414. At decision block 416, the
   payment network computer system 102 may determine whether it has received the indication
   from the recipient's device as to which account the recipient has selected to receive the funds.
   If the message indicating the account selection is received, then the payment network
   computer system 102 "knows" which of the recipient's service providers to contact to obtain
30 the payment card account number (or other account number) for the account selected by the
   recipient. Accordingly, the payment network computer system 102 can proceed with the

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 15
   processes of blocks 408-412-as described above.
   FIG. 6 shows another screen display that may be presented to the recipient via the recipient's
   device in connection with the process of FIG. 4. The purpose of this screen display is to
 5 confirm to the recipient that the payment transaction has been completed. Thus the screen
   display may be presented to the recipient at the conclusion of the process of block 412 in FIG.
   4.
   One advantage of the directory system and associated processes as described above is that the
10 recipient's account number need not be exposed to the sender or the sender's service provider.
   The recipient's account number goes no further than the operator of the payment network 102,
   which is deemed to be a highly trustworthy entity. Further, the arrangements as described
   herein allow the sender to conveniently designate the recipient of a personal payment
   transaction by an alias such as the recipient's mobile phone number or email address, either of
15 which may be very familiar to the sender.
   In the case of a payment transaction request where the directory entry for the recipient already
   contains the recipient's payment card account number, the process of FIG. 4 can be short
   circuited, in that the payment network computer system 102 may directly retrieve the account
20 number from the directory and proceed with step 412, i.e., without having to contact the
   recipient's service provider to get the recipient's account number.
   In some embodiments, the process of FIG. 4 may be expanded such that the recipient's entry
   in the directory database is updated to include the account number received at 410. In some
25 embodiments, the communication received by the payment network computer system 102 at
   block 410 from the service provider may contain an indication as to whether or not the
   payment network computer system 102 is authorized to update the recipient directory entry
   with the account number.
30 In some embodiments, the process may also include providing a step or process for the
   recipient to select a default receiving account, so that future transactions can be automatically

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          - 16
   received at that default receiving account.               The recipient may also be provided with a
   mechanism for modifying or deleting the default receiving account.
   FIG. 4A is a flow chart that illustrates a process that may be performed in the system of FIGS.
 5  1 and 2 in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In particular, FIG. 4A
   represents functionality that may be provided in the directory computer 104.
   At 452 in FIG 4A, the directory computer 104 may store a database such as that illustrated in
   simplified form in FIG. 3B. This may be considered a preliminary step in some senses, but
10 also may be an ongoing process as the database may be frequently updated.                   In some
   embodiments, to insure security of the directory database 362 (FIG. 3B), creation and/or
   updating of the data entries may be performed only by request-via a secure communications
   channel-from a trusted entity such as an FT or service provider registered with the payment
   network.
15
   At 454 in FIG. 4A, the directory computer 104 may receive a look-up request from the
   payment network computer system 102. This may correspond to the above-described block
   404 of FIG. 4.
20 Continuing to refer to FIG. 4A, at block 456, the directory computer 104 may use the alias
   identifier contained in the request received at 454 to access the database 362 (FIGS. 3A, 3B).
   Upon successfully accessing the database using the alias identifier, the directory computer 104
   may return the corresponding service provider identifier (block 458, FIG. 4A) to the payment
   network computer system 102. This may allow the payment network computer system 102 to
25 complete block 404 in FIG. 4.
   In some embodiments, the functionality ascribed in this discussion of FIG. 4A to the directory
   computer 104 may alternatively be performed by embodiments of the payment network
   computer system 102 (FIG. 3).
30
   The principles of embodiments of this invention have applicability beyond payments based on

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 17
   payment card accounts. Any type of account may be employed, including a demand deposit
   bank account, a mobile money account, etc. It is also the case that the embodiments of the
   invention may be used with payment systems other than payment card account systems. For
   example, embodiments of the invention may also be used in conjunction with ACH networks,
 5 mobile money networks, etc. Moreover, the payment system described herein may include
   more than one payment network. The system of the present embodiment is not limited to P2P
   transactions, but could also include, for example, B2P payments, rebate payments, government
   benefit disbursements, etc.
10 As used herein and in the appended claims, the term "computer" should be understood to
   encompass a single computer or two or more computers in communication with each other.
   As used herein and in the appended claims, the term "processor" should be understood to
   encompass a single processor or two or more processors in communication with each other.
15
   As used herein and in the appended claims, the term "memory" should be understood to
   encompass a single memory or storage device or two or more memories or storage devices.
   As used herein and in the appended claims, a "server" includes a computer device or system
20 that responds to numerous requests for service from other devices.
   The flow charts and descriptions thereof herein should not be understood to prescribe a fixed
   order of performing the method steps described therein. Rather the method steps may be
   performed in any order that is practicable.
25
   As used herein and in the appended claims, the term "payment card system account" includes
   a credit card account, a deposit account that the account holder may access using a debit card,
   a prepaid card account, or any other type of account from which payment transactions may be
   consummated. The terms "payment card system account" and "payment card account" and
30 "payment account" are used interchangeably herein.          The term "payment card account
   number" includes a number that identifies a payment card system account or a number carried

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 18
   by a payment card, or a number that is used to route a transaction in a payment system that
   handles debit card and/or credit card transactions. The term "payment card" includes a credit
   card, debit card, prepaid card, or other type of payment instrument, whether an actual physical
   card or virtual.
 5
   As used herein and in the appended claims, the term "payment card system" or "payment
   system" refers to a system for handling purchase transactions and related transactions. An
   example of such a system is the one operated by MasterCard International Incorporated, the
   assignee of the present disclosure. In some embodiments, the term "payment card system"
10 may be limited to systems in which member financial institutions issue payment card accounts
   to individuals, businesses and/or other organizations.
   Although the present disclosure has been described in connection with specific exemplary
   embodiments, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions, and alterations
15 apparent to those skilled in the art can be made to the disclosed embodiments without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
20 understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
   to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
25 admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
   it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
   which this specification relates.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 .docx-25/062018
                                                          - 19
   Claims Defining the Invention
    1.            A method for executing a funds transfer between a computer of a service provider of a
   sender and a computer of a service provider of a recipient without requiring the recipient to
 5 disclose account information to the sender, comprising:
                  receiving, via a network, in a computer of a service provider of a sender, a request
   from a device of the sender for a funds transfer, the request including addressing information
   for an individual recipient of the funds transfer;
                  retrieving, by the computer of the service provider of the sender, identification
10 information, corresponding to said addressing information for the individual recipient of the
   funds transfer, that identifies a service provider for the recipient;
                  routing, via the network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, a
   request to the service provider of the recipient by using the recipient's service provider
   identification information, the request from the computer of the service provider of the sender
15 requesting recipient account information;
                  receiving, in the computer of the service provider of the sender, from the service
   provider of the recipient, a payment account number that identifies a payment account that
   belongs to the recipient; and
                  executing the requested funds transfer without requiring the recipient to disclose
20 account information to the sender, in the computer of the service provider of the sender, by
   routing the funds transfer to the recipient's payment account using the received payment
   account number.
   2.             The method of claim 1, wherein the addressing information includes an e-mail address
25 for the recipient.
   3.             The method of claim 2, wherein the addressing information consists of an e-mail
   address for the recipient.
30 4.             The method of claim 1, wherein the addressing information includes a mobile
   telephone number for the recipient.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 20
   5.              The method of claim 4, wherein the addressing information consists of a mobile
   telephone number for the recipient.
 5 6.              The method of claim 1, wherein the service provider identification information
   includes an identification number that identifies the service provider.
   7.              The method of claim 1, wherein the request for a funds transfer originates from an
   individual.
10
   8.              The method of claim 1, wherein the request for a funds transfer originates from a
   business.
   9.             A method for executing a funds transfer between a computer of a service provider of a
15 sender and a computer of a service provider of a recipient without requiring the recipient to
   disclose account information to the sender, comprising:
                  receiving, via a network, in a computer of a service provider of the sender, a request
   from a device of the sender for a funds transfer, the request including an alias identifier for a
   recipient of the funds transfer, the request not including a destination account number for the
20 funds transfer;
                  based on the alias identifier, looking up, using the computer of the service provider of
   the sender, a service provider for the recipient;
                   obtaining, via the network, from a computer of the service provider of the recipient, the
   destination account number, the obtaining being performed by the computer of the service
25 provider of the sender;
                   inserting the obtained destination account number in the request; and
                  routing, via the network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, the
   request based on the inserted destination account number, without requiring a recipient to
   disclose account information to the sender.
30
    10.            The method of claim 9, wherein the service provider is a payment service provider.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                              - 21
    11.            The method of claim 9, wherein the service provider is a mobile network operator.
    12.            The method of claim 9, wherein the looking-up step includes accessing a directory,
 5 said directory storing a plurality of entries, each of said entries corresponding to an alias
   identifier for a respective payment system user, said each entry indicating a service provider
   that corresponds to the respective payment system user.
    13.            The method of claim 12, wherein said each entry indicates the service provider by a
10 standard identifier number that references the service provider.
    14.            The method of claim 13, wherein the service provider is one of:               (a) a financial
   institution; (b) a payment service provider; or (c) a mobile network operator.
15  15.            The method of claim 9, wherein the looking-up step indicates a plurality of service
   providers associated with the recipient;
                  the method further comprising:
                                  sending a query to the recipient, said query requesting the recipient to select
   among the plurality of service providers; and
20                               receiving a response to the query;
                   and wherein said routing step follows said step of receiving a response to the query.
    16.           A method for executing a funds transfer between a computer of a service provider of a
   sender and a computer of a service provider of a recipient without requiring a recipient to
25 disclose account information to the sender, comprising:
                   storing, in a computer, a directory database, said directory database storing a plurality
   of entries, each of said entries corresponding to an alias identifier for a respective payment
   system user, said each entry indicating a recipient service provider that corresponds to the
   respective payment system user;
30                receiving, via a network, from the computer of the service provider of the sender, a
   look-up request, the look-up request containing an alias identifier for a payment recipient; and

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17216174 _.doc-25/062018
                                                          - 22
                  responding to the look-up request by returning, via the network, to the computer of the
   service provider of the sender, a recipient service provider identifier, wherein said recipient
   service provider identifier is stored in said directory database in association with the recipient
   alias identifier, without requiring a recipient to disclose account information to the sender.
 5
    17.            The method of claim 16, wherein the alias identifier is the payment recipient's e-mail
   address.
    18.            The method of claim 16, wherein the alias identifier is the payment recipient's mobile
10 telephone number.
    19.            The method of claim 16, wherein the service provider of the sender is a payment
   network.
15 20.             The method of claim 19, wherein the service provider identifier is returned to the
   payment network.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      8/8

