                                -3
ABSTRACT
The Hill  Stop Hoodz enables and promotes the  safe use of the
same polyurethane concrete finishers knee boards with whoever
uses  it installing in seconds.
The concreter places a skid on the sloping wet concrete
surface and engages a hill stop hood by pushing the angled
radiused lead edge vertically into the wet concrete.
The radiused lead edge facilitates easy displacement of the
pebbles and gravel in the ready mixed concrete.
The  short inside edge of the Hill stop Hood slides over the
front vertical edge and radially engages with the Fairdinkum
Concreters  Skidz.
By simultaneously inserting the lead edge into the wet
concrete and sliding the short lip over the   front vertical
edge of the concreters Skidz, the result is temporary fixed
position brake which prevents the person on the skidz from
sliding down the surface.

                              -1
CONCRETERS SKIDZ Hill STOP Hoodz
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]    This Invention relates to the need for a Brake, on
what is commonly referred to as a concreter's knee board or
Skid.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]    The following information will describe the present
method with Knee Board/Skid used in the concreting industry
with reference to its arduous, cumbersome difficulties in
steep working situations e.g. Steep Driveways and Multi Storey
car parks which were pointed out to us during discussions with
concreters, Bosses, company owners and safety officers.
[0003]    Concrete finishers knee board and Skids have several
non-desirable characteristics, one of which is outlined below.
SUMMARY TECHNICAL PROBLEM
[0004]    Whilst trying to stay in a temporary but stable
position on a knee board / Skid on a wet concrete surface,
e.g. Steep Driveway, to obtain a surface finish on a sloping
site it often requires three or more people, to hold a stop
slide plank across the slope while One-person manoeuvrers on
the fresh cement surface with his concreters skids applying
his hand finishing skills to achieve a first-class finish as
is expected by the customer.

                               -2
CLAIMS
   1. The Hill stop Hoodz were specifically designed to be
      temporarily imbedded via a vertical push slide action
      into the wet concrete to engage and stay over the lead
      front vertical edge of the radius lipped,
      Fairdinkum Concreters Skidz to act as a positive
      temporary brake to facilitate the need to allow
      concreters to comfortably and confidently have their
      Concrete finishing skid remain in the chosen position
      that they require until they are ready to move.
   2. It is an arduous frustrating energy draining task to try
      to remain in a fixed workable position on a sloping wet
      concrete surface, on your own when you must force in your
      trowel to try to stop sliding down the slope and do an
      acceptable finish.

