                                  ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a method of treating psychiatric symptoms in a
subject having a NMDA receptor and a NE receptor which includes administering
d-methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, 1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d
alpha-normethadol,    1-alpha-normethadol,  pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, or mixtures thereof, to the subject under conditions effective for the
substance to bind to the NMDA receptor and NE receptor of the subject.

      d-METHADONE FOR THE TREATMENT OF PSYCHIATRIC SYMPTOMS
[0001]      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]      This application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/803,375, entitled "d-methadone for the Treatment of Psychiatric
Symptoms," filed on March 14, 2013, and U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
61/706,178, entitled "d-methadone for the Treatment of Psychiatric Symptoms," filed
on September 27, 2012, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference
herein in their entireties.
The present application is a divisional of AU2013323645, which is the national phase
entry of PCT/US2013/061639, the entire specifications of which are incorporated
herein by cross-reference.
[0003]      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0004]      The present invention relates to the treatment of psychiatric conditions,
and to compounds for the treatment of psychiatric conditions.
[0005]      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      This section is intended to introduce the reader to various aspects of art
that may be related to various aspects of the present invention, which are described
and/or claimed below. This discussion is believed to be helpful in providing the
reader with background information to facilitate a better understanding of various
aspects of the present invention. Accordingly, it should be understood that these
statements are to be read in this light, and not as admissions of prior art.
[0007]      Many psychological and psychiatric conditions (some of which can be
severe and debilitating) affect individuals. These conditions include depression,
anxiety disorders, and fatigue. Depression is a mental disorder characterized by
episodes of all-encompassing low mood accompanied by low self-esteem and loss of
interest or pleasure in normally enjoyable activities. The term "depression" may
denote this syndrome, but may refer to other mood disorders or to lower mood states
lacking clinical significance. Major depressive disorder is a clinically-diagnosed and
disabling condition that adversely affects a person's family, work, and/or school life,
sleeping and eating habits, general health, and can lead to self-harm.
[0008]      Presently, individuals suffering from depression are often treated with
antidepressant medication. The treatment of depression was revolutionized in the
1950s by the discovery of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and tricyclic
                                             -1-

antidepressants (TCAs). This was followed in the 1980s by the advent of the first
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).
[0009]      Many antidepressant medications work via mechanisms that ultimately
increase the amount and availability of neurotransmitters for signaling between
nerve cells. In the brain, messages are passed between two nerve cells via a
chemical synapse, a small gap between the cells. The presynaptic cell releases
neurotransmitters (e.g., serotonin, norepinephrine, etc.) into the synapse. The
neurotransmitters are then recognized by receptors on the surface of the
postsynaptic cell (i.e., the recipient cell). Following the completion of this
process, the large majority of the neurotransmitters are released from the
receptors and taken up by monoamine transporters into the presynaptic cell (a
process called reuptake). MAOls, TCAs, and SSRIs function by influencing this
process.
[0010]      As is known to those of ordinary skill in the art, MAOIs are chemicals
which inhibit the activity of the monoamine oxidase enzyme family, thus
preventing the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters and increasing their
availability. In the past, MAOIs were prescribed for those resistant to tricyclic
antidepressant therapy. However, because of potentially problematic dietary and
drug interactions, MAOIs have historically been used only when other classes of
antidepressant drugs (e.g., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and tricyclic
antidepressants) have failed.
[0011]      Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are heterocyclic chemical
compounds, the majority of which act primarily as serotonin-norepinephrine
reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) by blocking the serotonin transporter and the
norepinephrine (NE) transporter, respectively. This results in an elevation of the
synaptic concentrations of these neurotransmitters, and therefore an
enhancement of neurotransmission.
[0012]      In recent times, TCAs have been largely replaced in clinical use by
newer antidepressants such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
(SSRIs), which typically have more favorable side-effects profiles.
[0013]      Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) - such as Prozac®,
Zoloft*, and Paxil* -- are a class of compounds that increase the extracellular
level of the neurotransmitter serotonin by inhibiting its reuptake into the
presynaptic cell, increasing the level of serotonin in the synaptic cleft available to
                                           -2-

bind to the postsynaptic receptor. As a result, the serotonin stays in the synaptic
gap longer than it normally would, and may repeatedly stimulate the receptors of
the recipient cell.
[0014]      Apart from MAOls, TCAs, and SSRIs, additional antidepressant
medications have been developed. However, since the advent of SSRIs in the
 1980s, newer medications are largely "me too" drugs that exert their primary
biochemical effects by increasing the intra-synaptic levels of monoamines.
[0015]      Typically medications such as MAOls, TCAs, and SSRIs take weeks to
achieve their full effects. For example, high serotonin levels (due to the effects of
some antidepressant medications, such as SSRIs) will not only activate the
postsynaptic receptors, but also presynaptic autoreceptors, which serve as a
feedback sensor for the cell. Activation of the autoreceptors (by agonists like
serotonin) triggers a reduction of serotonin production. The resulting serotonin
deficiency persists for some time, although the body gradually adapts to this
situation by lowering the sensitivity of the autoreceptors.
[0016]      These slow neurophysiological adaptations of the brain tissue are the
reason why several weeks of continuous SSRI use is generally necessary for the
antidepressant effect to become fully manifested, and why increased anxiety is a
common side effect in the first few days or weeks of use.
[0017]       Unfortunately, during this lag time, patients continue to suffer from
symptoms of depression. Indeed, this lag period in onset of action of traditional
antidepressants (of up to several weeks) results in risk of self-harm as well as
harm to the patients' personal and professional lives, especially in the first days
after starting antidepressant treatment. Furthermore not all patients respond to
drugs that increase the intra-synaptic levels of monoamines (such as serotonin).
[0018]      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0019]      Certain exemplary aspects of the invention are set forth below. It
should be understood that these aspects are presented merely to provide the
reader with a brief summary of certain forms the invention might take and that
these aspects are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Indeed, the
invention may encompass a variety of aspects that may not be explicitly set forth
below.
[0020]      As described above, current medications for depression suffer several
drawbacks (e.g., taking long periods of time to achieve their full effects).
                                           -3-

Furthermore, available antidepressants are ineffective in a relatively high
percentage of depressed patients. Furthermore, several psychiatric symptoms, in
addition to depression, such as anxiety disorders, fatigue, psychological
symptoms associated with withdrawal from various substances, are inadequately
treated by the available psychiatric drugs, including anxiolytics, neuroleptics,
antidepressants, mood stabilizers. And, although medications have been
developed and used to treat conditions such as depression, not all patients
respond to drugs that increase the intra-synaptic levels of monoamines.
[0021]       In view of the drawbacks listed above, pharmacological strategies that
(1) have rapid onset of antidepressant effects (within hours or even a few days),
(2) are sustained, would have an enormous impact on public health, and (3) are
effective in patients refractory to available treatments.
[0022]      Various aspects of the present invention are based on the discovery by
the present inventors that such patients may respond to NMDA receptor
antagonists (substances that bind the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor), or a drug
like d-methadone, which combines NMDA receptor antagonisms with inhibition of
NE re-uptake, alone or in combination with standard therapy. Previously, those
of ordinary skill in the art have not considered NMDA receptor antagonists such
as d-methadone to be candidate compounds for treatment of psychiatric
conditions for many reasons, including (but not limited to) the connotation of
methadone (and thus d-methadone) as an addictive opioid drug. Furthermore,
the lack of understanding about of the NMDA activity of d-methadone combined
with its lack ofsubstantial opioid activity, as shown by Inturrisi [See Gorman, A.L.,
Elliott, K.J. and Inturrisi, C.E., The d- and I- isomers of methadone bind to the
non-competitive sit on the N- methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in rat forebrain
and spinal cord, NerurosciLett, 223 (1997) 5-8; Shimoyama, N. et. al, "d
methadone Is Antinociceptive in the Rat Formalin Test," J Pharma and
ExperTherap, 293 (1997) pp. 648-652; Davis, A.M. and Inturrisi, C.E., "d
methadone Blocks Morphine Tolerance and N-Methyl-D-Aspartate-Induced
Hyperalgesia," J Pharma and ExperTherap, 289 (1999) pp. 1048-1053.
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety]. Further, even though
medications such as antidepressants are still an area of major medical need,
Forbes noted in May, 2102 that companies like Novartis, GSK, and AstraZeneca
had ceased their neuroscience research efforts and other large pharmaceutical
                                           -4-

companies such as Merck, Pfizer and Sanofi had drastically scaled back their
research, due to reasons including high placebo success rates. (See LaMattina,
John, "Will Lundbeck's New Antidepressant Be a Major New Drug?" Forbes
online, Pharma & Healthcare, May 22, 2012.)
[0023]      Thus, one aspect of the present invention provides a method of treating
psychological and psychiatric symptoms in a subject having a NMDA receptor.
The method includes administering a NMDA receptor antagonist substance (such
as d-methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, 1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d
alpha-normethadol, I-alpha-normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, or mixtures thereof) to a subject under conditions effective for the
substance to bind to the NMDA receptor of the subject and thereby relieve the
subject from psychological symptoms such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood
instability including pseudo-bulbar affect. The substance may be isolated from its
enantiomer or synthetized de novo.
[0024]      A second aspect of the present invention provides a method of treating
psychological and psychiatric symptoms in a subject having a NE receptor. The
method includes administering a substance (such as d-methadone, d-methadol,
d-alpha-acetylmethadol, I-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha-normethadol, I-alpha
normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, or mixtures thereof) to a
subject under conditions effective for the substance to bind to the NE receptor of
the subject and thereby relieve the subject from psychological symptoms such as
depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood instability including pseudo-bulbar affect. The
substance may be isolated from its enantiomer or synthetized de novo.
[0025]      Thus, various aspects of the present invention include the use of d
methadone for the treatment of depression. They also include the use of d
methadone for the acute / rapid treatment of depression. d-methadone may be
used alone for the acute and chronic treatment of depression, or in combination
with other antidepressants and or other NMDA antagonists.
[0026]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of anxiety, fatigue, or mood instability (including
pseudobulbar affect).
[0027]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (depression, mood
                                         -5-

instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others) associated
with chronic pain, including cancer pain.
[0028]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (depression, mood
instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others) associated
with cancer.
[0029]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (depression, mood
instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others) associated
with opioid therapy.
[0030]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (including depression,
mood instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others)
associated with withdrawal from various substances, including alcohol, tobacco,
opioids, antidepressants, benzodiazepines, alone or in combination with nicotine
or with antidepressants, anxiolytics, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, lithium,
stimulants, NMDA antagonists, and/or analgesics.
[0031]      d-methadone may be clinically useful for some or all of the above
indications alone or in combination with antidepressants, anxiolytics,
antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, lithium, stimulants, NMDA antagonists, and
analgesics.
[0032]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone orally or intravenously, for the acute treatment of depression in
patients at the start of antidepressant therapy for a more rapid therapeutic onset:
available antidepressants require several weeks for the onset of effects while d
methadone may be effective more rapidly, therefore avoiding or reducing the
increased risk of suicide seen in patients during the first few weeks of treatment
with the available antidepressants.
[0033]       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0034]      The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute
a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and, together
with the general description of the invention given above and the detailed
description of the embodiments given below, serve to explain the principles of the
present invention.
                                           -6-

[0035]     The Figure shows the structure of d-methadone.
[0036]     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0037]     One or more specific embodiments of the present invention will be
described below. In an effort to provide a concise description of these
embodiments, all features of an actual implementation may not be described in
the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such
actual implementation, as in any engineering or design project, numerous
implementation-specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers'
specific goals, such as compliance with system-related and business-related
constraints, which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover, it
should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time
consuming, but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design,
fabrication, and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this
disclosure.
[0038]     As described above, current medications suffer several drawbacks
(such as taking long periods of time to achieve their full effects). Furthermore,
available antidepressants are ineffective in a relatively high percentage of
depressed patients. Furthermore, several psychiatric symptoms, in addition to
depression, such as anxiety disorders, fatigue, psychological symptoms
associated with withdrawal from various substances, are inadequately treated by
the available psychiatric drugs, including anxiolytics, neuroleptics,
antidepressants, mood stabilizers. And, although medications have been
developed and used to treat depression, not all patients respond to drugs that
increase the intra-synaptic levels of monoamines.
[0039]     However, the present inventors have discovered that such patients
may instead respond to NMDA antagonists, or a drug like d-methadone, which
combines NMDA antagonisms with inhibition of NE re-uptake, alone or in
combination with standard therapy.
[0040]     Thus, one aspect of the present invention provides a method of treating
psychological and psychiatric symptoms in a subject having a NMDA receptor.
The method includes administering a NMDA-receptor antagonist substance (such
as d-methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, 1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d
alpha-normethadol, I-alpha-normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, or mixtures thereof) to a subject under conditions effective for the
                                         -7-

substance to bind to the NMDA receptor of the subject and thereby relieve the
subject from psychological symptoms such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood
instability including pseudo-bulbar affect. The substance may be isolated from its
enantiomer or synthetized de novo.
[0041]      As described above, NMDA receptor antagonists are a class of
anesthetics that antagonize, or inhibit the action of, the NMDA receptor. The
NMDA receptor, a glutamate receptor, is the predominant molecular device for
controlling synaptic plasticity and memory function and allows for the transfer of
electrical signals between neurons in the brain and in the spinal column. For
electrical signals to pass, the NMDA receptor must be open. To remain open
(activated), glutamate and glycine must bind to the NMDA receptor.
[0042]      Chemicals that deactivate the NMDA receptor are called antagonists.
NMDA receptor antagonists fall into four categories: (1) competitive antagonists,
which bind to and block the binding site of the neurotransmitter glutamate; (2)
glycine antagonists, which bind to and block the glycine site; (3) noncompetitive
antagonists, which inhibit NMDA receptors by binding to allosteric sites; and (4)
uncompetitive antagonists, which block the ion channel by binding to a site within
it. Several synthetic opioids function as NMDA receptor-antagonists, such as
methadone, meperidine, dextropropoxyphene, tramadol, levorphanol, and
ketobemidone.
[0043]       Furthermore, (1) NMDA receptors are adaptively altered in
circumscribed central nervous system (CNS) areas following chronic
antidepressant (AD) therapy, and (2) behavioral studies show AD-like actions of
several functional NMDA antagonists. Neurochemical studies have shown that
chronic administration of NMDA antagonists to rodents leads to a down
regulation of cortical p-adrenoceptors. Chronic administration of ADs to mice
produces adaptive changes in radioligand binding to NMDA receptors. Studies
with imipramine, electroconvulsive shock (ECS), and citalopram show that these
changes develop slowly and persist for some time after treatment cessation.
Changes due to these drugs are dose dependent and restricted to the cerebral
cortex. [For the above, see Skolnick, P.; Layer, R. T.; Popik, P.; Nowak, G.; et al
Adaptation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors following antidepressant
treatment: Implications for the pharmacotherapy of depression.
Pharmacopsychiatry, Vol 29(1), Jan 1996, 23-26, incorporated by reference
                                         -8-

herein in its entirety.] Further, radioligand-binding to the NMDA receptor is
altered in frontal cortex of suicide victims. And so, the present inventors' position
is that NMDA receptors may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression.
Thus, the present inventors have determined that a drug like d-methadone, which
combines NMDA antagonistic activity and NE re-uptake inhibition, may offer
unique advantages for the treatment of psychiatric symptoms, including
depression.
[0044]      A second aspect of the present invention provides a method of treating
psychological and psychiatric symptoms in a subject having a NE receptor. The
method includes administering a substance such as d-methadone, d-methadol, d
alpha-acetylmethadol, I-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha-normethadol, I-alpha
normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, or mixtures thereof to a
subject under conditions effective for the substance to bind to the NE receptor of
the subject and thereby relieve the subject from psychological symptoms such as
depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood instability including pseudo-bulbar affect. The
substance may be isolated from its enantiomer or synthetized de novo.
[0045]      The NE receptor is an adrenergic receptor. As is known to those of
ordinary skill in the art, the adrenergic receptors (or adrenoceptors) are a class of
G protein-coupled receptors that are targets of the catecholamines, especially
norepinephrine and epinephrine. Many cells possess these receptors, and the
binding of a catecholamine to the receptor will generally stimulate the
sympathetic nervous system. Thus, various aspects of the present invention
include the use of d-methadone for the treatment of depression. They also
include the use of d-methadone for the acute / rapid treatment of depression. d
methadone may be used alone for the acute and chronic treatment of depression,
or in combination with other antidepressants and or other NMDA antagonists.
[0046]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (depression, mood
instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others) associated
with cancer.
[0047]      Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (depression, mood
instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others) associated
with opioid therapy.
                                           -9-

[0048]       Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms (including depression,
mood instability, pseudobulbar affect, dysphoria, anxiety, fatigue and others)
associated with withdrawal from various substances, including alcohol, tobacco,
opioids, antidepressants, benzodiazepines, alone or in combination with nicotine
or with antidepressants, anxiolytics, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, lithium,
stimulants, NMDA antagonists, analgesics.
[0049]       d-methadone may be clinically useful for some or all of the above
indications alone or in combination with antidepressants, anxiolytics,
antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, lithium, stimulants, NMDA antagonists, and
analgesics.
[0050]       Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone orally or intravenously, for the acute treatment of depression in
patients at the start of antidepressant therapy for a more rapid therapeutic onset:
available antidepressants require several weeks for the onset of effects while d
methadone may be effective more rapidly, therefore avoiding or reducing the
increased risk of suicide seen in patients during the first few weeks of treatment
with the available antidepressants.
[0051]       Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of d
methadone for the treatment of psychological symptoms at total daily dosages of
1 mg to 5000 mg.
[0052]       Methadone is a synthetic opioid. It is used medically as an analgesic
and a maintenance anti-addictive and reductive preparation for use by patients
with opioid dependency. Because it is an acyclic analog of morphine, methadone
acts on the same opioid receptors and thus has many of the same effects.
Methadone is also used in managing severe chronic pain, owing to its long
duration of action, extremely powerful effects, and very low cost. The term d
methadone indicates the dextrorotatory optical isomer salt of methadone, (+)
methadone HCL.
[0053]       Methadone acts by binding to the p-opioid receptor, but also has some
affinity for the NMDA receptor. d-methadone is an NMDA antagonist and NE
reuptake inhibitor with very weak or no opioid activity.
[0054]       As described above, aspects of the present invention are directed to
administering substances to a subject to affect the presence of neurotransmitters
                                         -10-

(by blocking receptors and/or reuptake of neurotransmitters). Thus, the NMDA
receptor is capable of biological action, and the administering of the substance in
the present invention is effective to block the biological action of the NMDA
receptor. The NMDA receptor may be located in the central nervous system of
the subject.
[0055]     Alternatively, or additionally, the subject may have an NE receptor that
is capable of biological action, and the administering of the substance in the
present invention is effective to inhibit the NE reuptake at the NE receptor. The
NE receptor may be located in the central nervous system of the subject.
[0056]     In another embodiment of the present invention, the method may
include administering more than one substance to a subject. For example, the
method may further comprise administering a psychiatric drug to the subject in
combination with the administering of d-methadone.        In various embodiments,
this psychiatric drug may be chosen from an antidepressant, an anxiolytic, a CNS
stimulant, a neuroleptic, an opioid, nicotine, or another NMDA antagonist.
[0057]     In various aspects and embodiments of the present invention, the
administering of the psychiatric drug and the d-methadone is performed orally,
nasally, rectally, trans-dermally, parenterally, or topically.
[0058]     In various aspects and embodiments, the present invention may further
comprise administering at least one d-isomer of an analog of d-methadone in
combination with the administering of d-methadone.
[0059]     As described above, (1) NMDA receptors are adaptively altered in
circumscribed CNS areas following chronic antidepressant (AD) therapy, and (2)
behavioral studies show AD-like actions of several functional NMDA antagonists.
Neurochemical studies have shown that chronic administration of NMDA
antagonists to rodents leads to a down regulation of cortical P-adrenoceptors.
Chronic administration of ADs to mice produces adaptive changes in radioligand
binding to NMDA receptors. Studies with imipramine, electroconvulsive shock
(ECS), and citalopram show that these changes develop slowly and persist for
some time after treatment cessation. Changes due to these drugs are dose
dependent and restricted to the cerebral cortex. [See Skolnick, P.; Layer, R. T.;
Popik, P.; Nowak, G.; et al Adaptation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors
following antidepressant treatment: Implications for the pharmacotherapy of
depression. Pharmacopsychiatry, Vol 29(1), Jan 1996, 23-26, incorporated by
                                          - 11 -

reference herein in its entirety.] Further, radioligand-binding to the NMDA
receptor is altered in frontal cortex of suicide victims. Thus, NMDA receptors
may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression.
[0060]     NMDA receptor antagonists have anti-depressant effects in many
animal models of depression, including the application of inescapable stressors,
forced-swim, and tail suspension-induced immobility tests; in learned
helplessness models of depression; and in animals exposed to a chronic mild
stress procedure. A single dose of the NMDA antagonist ketamine hydrochloride
in male Wistar rats interferes with the induction of behavioral despair for up to 10
days after its administration. Additionally, repeated administration of different
classes of antidepressants-in a time frame consistent with the delayed
therapeutic effects-    brings about alterations in the expression of NMDA subunit
messenger RNA and radioligand binding to these receptors in regions of the
brain implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. (See Trullas R, Skolnick
P. Functional antagonists at the NMDA receptor complex exhibit antidepressant
actions. Eur J Pharmacol. 1990;185:1-10; Yilmaz A, Schulz D, Aksoy A, Canbeyli
R. Prolonged effect of an anesthetic dose of ketamine on behavioral despair.
PharmacolBiochemBehav. 2002;71:341-344; and Boyer PA, Skolnick P, Fossom
LH. Chronic administration of imipramine and cita- lopram alters the expression
of NMDA receptor subunit mRNAs in mouse brain:a quantitative in situ
hybridization study. J MolNeurosci. 1998;10:219-233, incorporated by reference
herein in their entireties.)
[0061]     As is known to those of ordinary skill in the art, ketamine is a drug used
in human and veterinary medicine, primarily for the induction and maintenance of
general anesthesia, usually in combination with a sedative. Other uses include
sedation in intensive care, analgesia (particularly in emergency medicine), and
treatment of bronchospasm. Ketamine has a wide range of effects in humans,
including analgesia, anesthesia, hallucinations, elevated blood pressure, and
bronchodilation.
[0062]     Pharmacologically, ketamine is classified as an NMDA receptor
antagonist. At high, fully anesthetic level doses, ketamine has also been found to
bind to p-opioid receptors type 2 in cultured human neuroblastoma cells
however, without agonist activity - and to sigma receptors in rats. Also, ketamine
                                          -12-

interacts with muscarinic receptors, descending monoaminergic pain pathways
and voltage-gated calcium channels.
[0063]      Several lines of evidence from studies also suggest that dysfunction of
the glutamatergic system may play an important role in the pathophysiology of
depression. As is known to those skilled in the art, glutamic acid is one of the 20
22 proteinogenic amino acids, and the carboxylate anions and salts of glutamic
acid are known as glutamates. In neuroscience, glutamate is an important
neurotransmitter. The NMDA receptor is a glutamate receptor. Nerve impulses
trigger release of glutamate from the pre-synaptic cell. In the opposing post
synaptic cell, glutamate receptors, such as the NMDA receptor, bind glutamate
and are activated. In clinical trials, the glutamatergic modulators lamotrigine and
riluzole (both inhibitors of glutamate release) were found to have antidepressant
properties. Further, a recent study by Sanacora et al showed glutamate levels in
the occipital cortex to be significantly elevated in 29 medication-free subjects with
unipolar major depression as compared with 28 age- and sex-matched healthy
controls (Sanacora G, Gueorguieva R et al., Subtype-specific alterations of
gamma-aminobutyric acid and glutamate in patients with major depression., Arch
Gen Psychiatry. 2004; 61:705-713, incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety). Together, these data support the hypothesis of regional alterations in
glutamatergic signaling in mood disorders.
[0064]      Based on the preclinical and preliminary clinical studies, NMDA
receptor complex may mediate the delayed therapeutic effects of traditional
monoaminergic-based antidepressants and, furthermore, that directly targeting
the NMDA receptor could bring about rapid antidepressant effects. Indeed, first in
a preliminary study of 8 subjects with major depression, it was reported that a
single dose of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine resulted
in a rapid and short-lived antidepressant effect. (See Berman RM, Cappiello A,
Anand A, Oren DA, Heninger GR, Charney DS, Krystal JH. Antidepressant
effects of ketamine in depressed patients. Biol Psychiatry. 2000;47:351-354,
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.)
[0065]      This first trial was followed by a second trial (a double-blind trial) in a
relatively refractory population. This second trial confirmed a rapid (110 minutes),
and relatively sustained (1 week) antidepressant response to a single dose of the
NMDA antagonist ketamine. (See Zarate, CA Jr, Singh JB et al., Randomized
                                           -13-

Trial of an N-methyl-D-aspartate Antagonist in Treatment-Resistant Major
Depression. Arch Gen Psy 2006; 63: 856-864, incorporated by reference herein
in its entirety).
[0066]       However, as noted above, there are many drawbacks to current NMDA
receptor antagonists, such as ketamine. However, the present inventors have
discovered that a compound such as d-methadone may not suffer from these
drawbacks. As observed by Manfredi (one of the present inventors), patients
with severe cancer pain unrelieved by high doses of opioids were achieving relief
with very low doses of methadone, less than one twentieth of the expected
equianalgesic opioid dose (Manfredi PL, Borsook D, Chandler SW, Payne R.
Intravenous methadone for cancer pain unrelieved by morphine and
hydromorphone. Pain 1997; 70: 99-101, incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety). The NMDA antagonistic activity of d-methadone directly affects pain
pathways, as shown by Inturrisi (one of the present inventors) [See Gorman, A.L.,
Elliott, K.J. and Inturrisi, C.E., The d- and I- isomers of methadone bind to the
non-competitive sit on the N- methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in rat forebrain
and spinal cord, NerurosciLett, 223 (1997) 5-8, incorporated by reference herein
in its entirety], but as shown by the inventors in the phase I study described
below, d-methadone may also have an effect on pain by directly affecting
psychiatric symptoms. Manfredi also observed that patients with history of opioid
abuse responded better to methadone compared to other opioids (Manfredi PL,
Gonzales GR, Cheville AL, Kornick C and Payne R. Methadone analgesia in
cancer pain patients on chronic methadone maintenance therapy. J Pain Sympt
Manag. February 2001; 21(2):169-174, incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety). This may be due to improvement in analgesia but also improvement of
the psychiatric symptoms that often affect these patients and influence the
perception of pain intensity. Furthermore, the severe pain escalation noted by
Manfredi in patients when methadone was substituted by other opioids may be
due to untreated anxiety from sudden lack of NMDA block (Moryl N, Santiago
Palma J, MD, Kornick C, Derby S, Fischberg D, Payne R and Manfredi P.
Pitfalls of opioid rotation: substituting another opioid for methadone in the
treatment of cancer pain. Pain 2002; 96 (3): 325-328, incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety).
                                           -14-

[0067]      In addition, d-methadone has been shown to be safe in clinical studies
dating back to the 1950s, and when used together with its isomer as racemic
methadone. This safety was shown at doses much higher than those expected to
be effective for pain. Furthermore, d-methadone is not addictive and was not
recognized as an opioid by heroin addicts and did not work as a substitute for
opioids in this patient population. However, the fact that racemic methadone is
successfully used for the treatment of addiction may be in part due to the activity
of d-methadone at the NMDA receptor. In other words, d-methadone does not
work as an opioid substitute the way racemic methadone, which is a potent
opioid, does, but d-methadone may be effective for the treatment of the
psychological symptoms that commonly outlive and persist beyond the acute
opioid withdrawal phase. Often patients detoxified from opioids, after the opioid
withdrawal syndrome is over, are treated with antidepressant, antianxiety, and
mood stabilizing drugs. Based on the phase 1-11 study findings described below,
the clinical observations of the use of methadone from Manfredi cited above
[Manfredi PL, Gonzales GR, Cheville AL, Kornick C and Payne R. Methadone
analgesia in cancer pain patients on chronic methadone maintenance therapy. J
Pain Sympt Manag. February 2001; 21(2):169-174, incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety], and the experimental studies from Inturrisi, also cited above
(Gorman, A.L., Elliott, K.J. and Inturrisi, C.E., The d- and I- isomers of methadone
bind to the non-competitive sit on the N- methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in
rat forebrain and spinal cord, NerurosciLett, 223 (1997) 5-8, incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety), d-methadone may be more effective than
conventional psychiatric drugs in treating depression anxiety and other
psychiatric symptoms, including the sub-acute and chronic psychiatric symptoms
that follow or are concomitant to stressful events such as pain, cancer, opioid
treatment and opioid withdrawal.
[0068]      In the phase I study developed by the present inventors and performed
by investigators (Drs. Natalie Moryl, Dana Tarcatu, and Eugenie Obbens) at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY (described in greater
detail below) in very sick patients with severe cancer pain, d-methadone was not
only well tolerated but it was liked by the patients who recognized it as an
effective analgesic.
                                          -15-

[0069]      Thus, based on these results, the present inventors have determined
that d-methadone is not only safe but would prove itself analgesic (in a phase 11
study). The most suitable study would likely be in patients with diabetic
neuropathy, similarly to what has been done with other non-opioid analgesics.
This pathway to approval would likely be conducive to a widespread use in most
pain syndromes: clinicians treating patients with cancer pain and neuropathic
pain in addition to those treating non-malignant chronic pain are waiting for safe,
non-addictive analgesics, to be used either alone or in combination with opioids
and other analgesics.
[0070]      The NMDA receptor antagonists have received much attention from
scientists and industry because of their effects on a crucial chronic pain circuit.
Unfortunately the designer high affinity drugs such as MK-801 are not safe. The
NMDA antagonists on the market have known problems. Ketamine causes
hallucinations, dextrometorphan has a very short half life and memantine a very
long one which depends heavily on renal excretion. Also the effects of
dextrometorphan and memantine may be too weak to produce analgesia.
[0071]      On the other hand, d-methadone is proven to be safe and, as
determined by the present inventors, has the optimal affinity to be effective for
analgesia. Its half life and liver metabolism are other advantages.
[0072]      In addition to NMDA antagonistic activity, d-methadone is a weak
inhibitor of NE reuptake. Codd EE, Shank RP, et al. Serotonin and
Norepinephrine activity of centrally acting analgesics: Structural determinants and
role in antinociception. IPET 1995; 274 (3)1263-1269 (incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety). Thus, this may also contribute to alleviate psychiatric
symptoms, especially depression.
[0073]      Additionally, Krystal et al. [Krystal JH, D'Souza DC, Petrakis IL, Belger
A, Berman RM, Charney DS, Abi-Saab W, Madonick S., NMDA agonists and
antagonists as probes of glutamatergic dysfunction and pharmacotherapies in
neuropsychiatric disorders., Harv Rev Psychiatry. 1999 Sep-Oct;7(3):125-43
(incorporated by reference herein in its entirety)] suggest that the degree to which
NMDA antagonists produce effects within a given domain is related to the extent
of the environmental stimulation within that domain. This particular mode of
action may be important when the NMDA receptors of patients are abnormally
                                           -16-

stimulated as may happen with depression, stress provoking situations and
anxiety disorders, including those occurring with substance withdrawal.
[0074]       EXAMPLE
[0075]       The following describes the phase I study (referenced above) of d
methadone administered to patients with chronic pain. In particular, investigators
at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (of New York, NY) performed a study
of d-methadone administered to patients with chronic pain at a dose of 40 mg
every 12 hours for 12 days. The following details the results of the phase I
portion of that study.
[0076]       Protocol Summary
[0077]       The study was a Phase I open label study of d-methadone in patients
with chronic pain and multiple co-morbitities. Seven out of eight patients
completing the study had advanced cancer. The patients were taking an average
of 5 different drugs. And all patients had persistent pain despite strong opioids
and other analgesics titrated to effect. The objective of the study was to
determine if 40 mg of d-methadone administered every 12 hours to chronically ill
patients with chronic pain is safe and well tolerated.
[0078]       The background and rationale for the study was as follows: (1)
Tolerance to opioid analgesia necessitates dose escalation, which can result in
an increase in adverse effects; (2) NMDA receptor antagonists attenuate chronic
pain, especially neuropathic pain; and (3) NMDA receptor antagonists attenuate
and reverse opioid analgesic tolerance [Inturrisi, C.E. "Opioid Analgesic Therapy
in Cancer Pain," Advances in Pain Research and Therapy, (K. M. Foley, J. J.
Bonica, and V. Ventafridda, Eds.) pp. 133-154, incorporated by reference herein
in its entirety].
[0079]       Both d-methadone and I-methadone are NMDA antagonists. Only I
methadone binds to opioid receptors. Treatment with d-methadone results in
NMDA antagonism without opioid receptor activity. [See Gorman, A.L., Elliott,
K.J. and Inturrisi, C.E., The d- and I- isomers of methadone bind to the non
competitive sit on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in rat forebrain and
spinal cord, Nerurosci Lett, 223 (1997) 5-8, incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.]
                                          -17-

[0080]      Thus, d-methadone could be used as an independent non-opioid
analgesic for patients with chronic pain. Further, d-methadone could be added to
opioids to prevent tolerance and dose escalation.
[0081]      Criteria for Patient Eliqibility
[0082]      In order to be considered eligible for the study, individuals had to: (1)
be experiencing chronic pain, and had to have experienced pain greater than or
equal to 3 on a 0-10 visual analogue scale (VAS) in the previous 24 hours; (2) be
18 years of age or older; (3) have a KPS (Karnofsky Performance Status) of
greater than or equal to 80; (4) not be pregnant; and (5) have a responsible
companion living with them during the study (12 days).
[0083]      Any of the following would serve to exclude an individual from the
study: (1) a known hypersensitivity to methadone;(2) if the patient was taking
methadone or previous methadone treatment within one month of enrollment (3)
any changes in the dose of the following medications within 2 weeks of study
enrollment: Abacavir, Benzodiazepines, Carbamazepine, Efavirnez, Fluconazole,
Fluvoxamine, Neltrexone, Nelfinavir, Nevirapine, Phenytoin, Risperidone,
Ritonavir, AZT, St. John's Wort; or (4) a baseline QTc > 0.440/ year.
[0084]      Once individuals were selected, they were given a pretreatment
examination, to diagnose and determine: (1) pain diagnosis, (2) analgesic
regimen and concurrent pharmacological therapies, (3) existing side effects, (4)
the Symptom Assessment Sheet- BaselineEKG, (5) mini-mental state
examination (MMSE), and (6) renal and liver function tests.
[0085]      305 individuals were screened for participation in the study. 295
patients were excluded for not meeting the inclusion criteria, or other reasons
(e.g., did not choose to participate). 10 patients signed a consent to participate in
the study. However, one patient became ineligible before the study began, and
one patient was removed from the study based on that patient's request. 8
patients completed the study.
[0086]      Methods
[0087]      Administration of d-methadone was at 40 mg PO q1 2hr for 12 days.
Patients visited the clinic on days 1, 8, and 12. The patients also kept a daily
diary (concerning side effects and analgesia). Doctors involved in the study also
kept a daily diary (based on daily phone interviews with the patients). Serum d
methadone level for each patient was measured 6 hours after the morning dose
                                             -18-

on day 12. EKGs of each patient were taken on days 1, 8, and 12. A MMSE was
given to each patient on days 1 and 12. And a Global Assessment for pain and
Global Assessment for mood was determined for each patient on day 12.
[0088]    Results
[0089]    Results are shown in Tables 1-3 (below) and the discussion thereafter.
Table 1: Results - Demographics
Patient #         Race         Gender           Diagnosis     Pain diagnosis
                                                              back pain due to
01                WNH          f        meningioma            metastatic disease
                                                              back pain/
56                WNH          m        renal cell carcinoma  postthoracotomy pain
                                                              back pain due to spinal
117               WNH          m        lymphoma              stenosis, neuropathy
                                                              neck pain/ shoulder pain
224               WH           f        lymphoma              after lymphoma resectio
                                                              hip pain due to avasculai
258               WNH          m       acute leukemia         necrosis
                                                              chemotherapy induced
300               BNH          f        breast cancer         neuropathy
                                       degenerative joint     degenerative joint
301               WNH          m       disease                disease
                                                              arthralgia/ neuropathy
302               WNH          f       thyroid cancer         after chemotherapy
                                                              postmastectomy pain,
303               WNH          f        breast cancer         carpal tunnel syndrome
                                                              chest pain due to chest
305               WH           f       cystadenocarcinoma     wall metastases
                                      -19-

Table 2: Results - Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale
Administered on day 1 (baseline) and day 12
                                                              Well-being (10
        Pain         Tiredness      Anxiety      Drowsiness   the worst)
                 Day           Day           Day          Day            Day
Patient Baseline 12  Baseline   12  Baseline  12 Baseline  12  Baseline   12
  1        4      5      4      5      4      3     2       0     5        0
  56       7      2      9      4      1      4     0       1     0        2
 117       5      5      8      7      0      0     0       0     0        0
 258        1     5      8      6      0      0     3       3     4        3
 301       3      3      0      0      3      1     0       0     6        1
 302       6      9      5      5      0      0     2       5     2        1
 303       4      4      6      0      5      2     0       0     6        9
 305       3      0      7      2      7      2     0       1     10       7
          4.1    4.1    5.9    3.6    2.5    1.5   0.9    1.3    4.1      2.9
                                     -20-

Table 3: Results - Summary and attribution of adverse events documented in the
diaries
 AE according to CTCAE v3.0 for 8 patients that completed the study and 1 patient who
 was removed from the study
  CTCAE v3.0             AE                 # of patients   Grade (1-5)   Attribution
  Neurology              Somnolence         2               2             3
                         Tremor             1               1             3
  Pain                   Back               1               1             3
                         Headache           1               1             3
                         Headache           1               1             4
[0090]      Summary of Results
[0091]      D-methadone at the dose of 40 mg PO0 12 hours was well tolerated
in this group of patients with chronic pain and multiple co morbidities, though
further phase I and phase 11studies may be needed to confirm its safety and
analgesic effects.
[0092]      Since d-methadone is likely well tolerated at doses that provide
clinically useful NMDA receptor antagonism, it is likely to be useful for the
treatment of a wide spectrum of painful conditions.
[0093]      Upon thorough review of the data from this study the inventors
discovered that patients taking d-methadone experienced: (1) Improved well
being: baseline 4.1- after treatment 2.9 (lower numbers indicate improved mood):
(2) Less anxiety: baseline 2.5 -after treatment 1.5: and (3) Less tiredness:
baseline 5.9 - after treatment 3.6.
                                          -21 -

[0094]       The above numbers indicate average scores for eight patients on Visual
Analogue Scales part of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Score at baseline and
on day 12 of treatment with d-methadone 40 mg every 12 hours.
[0095]       These data signal possible therapeutic benefits from d-methadone for the
relief of various psychological symptoms. These findings are enhanced by excluding
patients with baseline symptom scores insufficient to be susceptible to clinically
relevant improvement. These findings did not correlate to changes in pain scores
and, therefore, the present inventors have determined that this suggests clinical
indications independent from analgesia.
[0096]       These new findings, together with the experimental work performed by
present inventor Charles Inturrisi [described in Gorman, A.L. et. al, "The d- and I
isomers of methadone bind to the non-competitive site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate
(NMDA) receptor in rat forebrain and spinal cord," Neuroscience Letters, 223 (1997)
pp. 5-8; Shimoyama, N. et. al, "d-methadone Is Antinociceptive in the Rat Formalin
Test," J Pharma and Exper Therap, 293 (1997) pp. 648-652; Davis, A.M. and
Inturrisi, C.E., "d-methadone Blocks Morphine Tolerance and N-Methyl-D-Aspartate
Induced Hyperalgesia," J Pharma and Exper Therap, 289 (1999) pp. 1048-1053; and
Inturrisi, C.E., "Pharmacology of methadone and its isomers," Minerva Anestesiol 71
(2005), pp. 435-437, incorporated by reference herein in their entireties) and other
literature cited in this application suggest a previously unrecognized benefit from d
methadone in many psychiatric syndromes and symptoms. Further, the fact that d
methadone would be beneficial in the treatment of psychiatric symptoms and
conditions suggests that similar drugs, such as d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol,
1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha-normethadol, 1-alpha-normethadol, and their
pharmaceutically acceptable salts, would also be beneficial in such treatment.
[0097]       While the various aspects of the present invention have been disclosed
by reference to the details of various embodiments of the invention, it is to be
understood that the disclosure is intended as an illustrative rather than in a limiting
sense, as it is contemplated that modifications will readily occur to those skilled in the
art, within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims.
                                            - 22 -

Forms of the invention may include the following:
1.      A method of treating psychological and psychiatric symptoms comprising:
        administering a substance selected from the group consisting of d
methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, 1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha
normethadol, 1-alpha-normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
mixtures thereof to a subject;
        wherein the substance is isolated from its enantiomer or synthesized de novo;
and
        wherein the administering of the substance occurs under conditions effective
for the substance to bind to an NMDA receptor of the subject and thereby relieve the
subject from psychological symptoms such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood
instability including pseudo-bulbar affect.
2. The method according to form 1, wherein the substance is d-methadone.
3. The method according to form 2, wherein the NMDA receptor is capable of
biological action, and wherein the administering is effective to block the biological
action of the NMDA receptor.
4. The method according to form 2, further comprising administering a psychiatric
drug to the subject in combination with the administering of d-methadone.
5. The method according to form 4, wherein the psychiatric drug is an
antidepressant, an anxiolytic, a CNS stimulant, a neuroleptic, an opioid, nicotine, or
another NMDA antagonist.
6. The method according to form 2, wherein the subject has a central nervous
system, and wherein the NMDA receptor is located in the central nervous system.
7. The method according to form 6, wherein the subject is a mammal.
8. The method according to form 4, wherein the mammal is a human.
                                          - 23 -

9. The method according to form 4, wherein the administering of the psychiatric drug
and the d-methadone is performed orally, nasally, rectally, trans-dermally,
parenterally, or topically.
10. The method according to form 2, further comprising: administering at least one d
isomer of an analog of d-methadone in combination with the administering of d
methadone.
11. The method according to form 2, wherein the d-methadone in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
12. The method according to form 2, wherein the d-methadone is administered
intravenously.
13. The method according to form 2, wherein the d-methadone is delivered at a total
daily dosage of about 1mg to about 5,000mg.
14. A method of treating psychological and psychiatric symptoms comprising:
        administering a substance selected from the group consisting of d
methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, 1-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha
normethadol, 1-alpha-normethadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
mixtures thereof to a subject;
        wherein the substance is isolated from its enantiomer or synthesized de novo;
and
        wherein the administering of the substance occurs under conditions effective
for the substance to bind to an NE receptor of the subject and thereby relieve the
subject from psychological symptoms such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, mood
instability including pseudo-bulbar affect.
15. The method according to form 14, wherein the substance is d-methadone.
16. The method according to form 15, wherein the NE receptor is capable of
biological action, and wherein the administering is effective to inhibit the NE reuptake
at the NE receptor.
                                          - 24 -

17. The method according to form 15, further comprising administering a psychiatric
drug to the subject in combination with the administering of d-methadone.
18. The method according to form 17, wherein the psychiatric drug is an
antidepressant, an anxiolytic, a CNS stimulant, a neuroleptic, nicotine or another
NMDA antagonist.
19. The method according to form 15, wherein the subject has a central nervous
system, and wherein the NE receptor is located in the central nervous system.
20. The method according to form 19, wherein the subject is a mammal.
21.The method according to form 20, wherein the mammal is a human.
22. The method according to form 17, wherein the administering of the psychiatric
drug and the d-methadone is performed orally, nasally, rectally, trans-dermally,
parenterally, or topically.
23. The method according to form 15, further comprising: administering at least one
d-isomer of an analog of d-methadone in combination with the administering of d
methadone.
24. The method according to form 15, wherein the d-methadone in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
25. The method according to form 15, wherein the d-methadone is administered
intravenously.
26. The method according to form 15, wherein the d-methadone is delivered at a
total daily dosage of about 1mg to about 5,000mg.
                                         - 25 -

CLAIMS
1.      A method of treating psychological and psychiatric symptoms, the method of
treating consisting of:
(a)     administering a composition to a subject suffering from one or more
        psychological symptoms chosen from depression, anxiety, fatigue, and mood
        instability including pseudo-bulbar affect, the composition including, as the
        sole active agent within the composition, an NMDA receptor antagonist
        selected from d-methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha
        normethadol, 1-alpha-normethadol, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
        thereof; and
(b)     administering a psychiatric drug to the subject, wherein the psychiatric drug is
        selected from CNS stimulants, opioids, nicotine, and other NMDA receptor
        antagonists;
        wherein the NMDA receptor antagonist is isolated from its enantiomer or
        synthesized de novo; and
        wherein the administering of the composition occurs under conditions
        effective for the NMDA receptor antagonist to bind to an NMDA receptor of
        the subject and thereby relieve the subject from said one or more
        psychological symptoms.
2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the NMDA receptor is capable of
biological action, and wherein the administering is effective to block the biological
action of the NMDA receptor.
3.      The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the subject has a central
nervous system, and wherein the NMDA receptor is located in the central nervous
system.
4.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the subject is a mammal.
5.      The method according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the mammal is a human.
6.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the administering
of the psychiatric drug and the composition is performed orally, nasally, rectally,
trans-dermally, parenterally, or topically.
7.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the NMDA
receptor antagonist is d-methadone.
8.      The method according to claim 7, wherein the d-methadone in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
9.      The method according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the d-methadone is
administered intravenously.
                                            - 26 -

10.     The method according to any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the d-methadone
is delivered at a total daily dosage of about 1mg to about 5,000mg.
11.     A method of treating psychological and psychiatric symptoms the method of
treating consisting of:
(a)     administering a composition to a subject suffering from one or more
        psychological symptoms chosen from depression, anxiety, fatigue, and mood
        instability including pseudo-bulbar affect, the composition including, as the
        sole active agent within the composition, an NE reuptake inhibitor selected
        from d-methadone, d-methadol, d-alpha-acetylmethadol, d-alpha
        normethadol, 1-alpha-normethadol, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
        thereof; and
(b)     administering a psychiatric drug to the subject, wherein the psychiatric drug is
        selected from CNS stimulants, opioids, nicotine, and other NE reuptake
        inhibitors;
        wherein the NE reuptake inhibitor is isolated from its enantiomer or
        synthesized de novo; and
        wherein the administering of the composition occurs under conditions
        effective for the NE reuptake inhibitor to bind to an NE receptor of the subject
        and thereby relieve the subject from said one or more psychological
        symptoms.
12.     The method according to claim 11, wherein the NE receptor is capable of
biological action, and wherein the administering is effective to inhibit NE reuptake at
the NE receptor.
13.     The method according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the subject has a
central nervous system, and wherein the NE receptor is located in the central
nervous system.
14.     The method according to claim 13, wherein the subject is a mammal.
15.     The method according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the mammal is a
human.
16.     The method according to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein the
administering of the psychiatric drug and the composition is performed orally,
nasally, rectally, trans-dermally, parenterally, or topically.
17.     The method according to any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the NE
reuptake inhibitor is d-methadone.
18.     The method according to claim 17, wherein the d-methadone in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
                                          - 27  -

19.    The method according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the d-methadone is
administered intravenously.
20.    The method according to any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the d
methadone is delivered at a total daily dosage of about 1mg to about 5,000mg.
                            Relmada Therapeutics, Inc.
               Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                         -28-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
