ABSTRACT
Power offset signaling techniques for network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression
(NAICS) receivers are described. In one embodiment, for example, user equipment (UE) may
comprise at least one radio frequency (RF) transceiver, at least one RF antenna, and logic, at least a
portion of which is in hardware, the logic to receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection
control message comprising a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field and perform a radio resource
configuration procedure in response to receipt of the RRC connection control message,       the RRC
connection    control  message to comprise      network-assisted interference cancellation and
suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies a power offset value for one or more
transmissions to the UE over       a physical downlink      shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell
of the UE. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
3572690vl

                 1/9
                 FIG. 1
                     100
Serving Cell
    106
             Serving eNB
                  104
                                    UE
                                    102
                       X2 Interface
                            110
             'NN
                                       Proximate eNB
                                            108

                            POWER OFFSET SIGNALING TECHNIQUES FOR
         NETWORK-ASSISTED INTERFERENCE CANCELLATION AND SUPPRESSION                   (NAICS)
                                               RECEIVERS
 5
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
         Embodiments herein generally relate to communications between devices in broadband
   wireless communications networks.
                                            BACKGROUND
10       Network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) is an emerging
   approach to inter-cell interference mitigation. The implementation of NAICS techniques
   generally involves UE-side application of interference mitigation algorithms to reduce the
   extent to which transmissions in neighboring cells interfere with transmissions to the UE in its
   serving cell. Generally speaking, the more knowledge a UE has about the structure, spatial
15 properties, and/or other characteristics of transmissions that interfere with each other, the
   greater its opportunity to achieve spectral efficiency gains via NAICS interference mitigation
   may be. The structure, spatial properties, and/or other characteristics of such transmissions
   may largely be determined by various network-side parameters. In order to support NAICS
   inter-cell interference mitigation, it may be desirable that one or more such network-side
20 parameters be provided to the UE.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         FIG. 1 illustrates an embodiment of a first operating environment.
         FIG. 2 illustrates an embodiment of a wireless channel.
         FIG. 3 illustrates an embodiment of a second operating environment.
25       FIG. 4 illustrates an embodiment of a first logic flow.
         FIG. 5 illustrates an embodiment of a second logic flow.
         FIG. 6 illustrates an embodiment of a third logic flow.
         FIG. 7A illustrates an embodiment of a first storage medium.
         FIG. 7B illustrates an embodiment of a second storage medium.
                                                    1

         FIG. 8 illustrates an embodiment a device.
         FIG. 9 illustrates an embodiment of a wireless network.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5       Various embodiments may be generally directed to power offset signaling techniques
   for network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) receivers. In one
   embodiment, for example, user equipment (UE) may comprise at least one radio frequency
   (RF) transceiver, at least one RF antenna, and logic, at least a portion of which is in hardware,
   the logic to receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising a
10 RadioResourceConfigDedicated field and perform a radio resource configuration procedure in
   response to receipt of the RRC connection control message, the RRC connection control
   message to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS)
   assistance information that identifies a power offset value for one or more transmissions to the
   UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE. Other
15 embodiments are described and claimed.
         Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise
   any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as
   hardware, software, or any combination thereof, as desired for a given set of design
   parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a
20 limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example, the embodiment may
   include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation. It
   is worthy to note that any reference to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means that a
   particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
   included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment,"
25 "in some embodiments," and "in various embodiments" in various places in the specification
   are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
         The techniques disclosed herein may involve transmission of data over one or more
   wireless connections using one or more wireless mobile broadband technologies. For
   example, various embodiments may involve transmissions over one or more wireless
30 connections according to one or more 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), 3GPP Long
   Term Evolution (LTE), and/or 3GPP LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) technologies and/or standards,
                                                     2

   including their predecessors, revisions, progeny, and/or variants. Various embodiments may
   additionally or alternatively involve transmissions according to one or more Global System
   for Mobile Communications (GSM)/Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE),
   Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS)/High Speed Packet Access (HSPA),
 5 and/or GSM with General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) system (GSM/GPRS) technologies
   and/or standards, including their predecessors, revisions, progeny, and/or variants.
          Examples of wireless mobile broadband technologies and/or standards may also
   include, without limitation, any of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
   802.16 wireless broadband standards such as IEEE 802.16m and/or 802.16p, International
10 Mobile Telecommunications Advanced (IMT-ADV), Worldwide Interoperability for
   Microwave Access (WiMAX) and/or WiMAX II, Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
   2000 (e.g., CDMA2000 1xRTT, CDMA2000 EV-DO, CDMA EV-DV, and so forth), High
   Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network (HIPERMAN), Wireless Broadband
   (WiBro), High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA), High Speed Orthogonal
15 Frequency-Division Multiplexing (OFDM) Packet Access (HSOPA), High-Speed Uplink
   Packet Access (HSUPA) technologies and/or standards, including their predecessors,
   revisions, progeny, and/or variants.
          Some embodiments may additionally or alternatively involve wireless communications
   according to other wireless communications technologies and/or standards. Examples of
20 other wireless communications technologies and/or standards that may be used in various
   embodiments may include, without limitation, other IEEE wireless communication standards
   such as the IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.1la, IEEE 802.1lb, IEEE 802.1lg, IEEE 802.1In, IEEE
   802.1lu, IEEE 802.1lac, IEEE 802.1lad, IEEE 802.1laf, and/or IEEE 802.1lah standards,
   High-Efficiency Wi-Fi standards developed by the IEEE 802.11 High Efficiency WLAN
25 (HEW) Study Group, Wi-Fi Alliance (WFA) wireless communication standards such as Wi
   Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, Wi-Fi Direct Services, Wireless Gigabit (WiGig), WiGig Display Extension
   (WDE), WiGig Bus Extension (WBE), WiGig Serial Extension (WSE) standards and/or
   standards developed by the WFA Neighbor Awareness Networking (NAN) Task Group,
   machine-type communications (MTC) standards such as those embodied in 3GPP Technical
30 Report (TR) 23.887, 3GPP Technical Specification (TS) 22.368, and/or 3GPP TS 23.682,
   and/or near-field communication (NFC) standards such as standards developed by the NFC
   Forum, including any predecessors, revisions, progeny, and/or variants of any of the above.
   The embodiments are not limited to these examples.
                                                    3

          In addition to transmission over one or more wireless connections, the techniques
   disclosed herein may involve transmission of content over one or more wired connections
   through one or more wired communications media. Examples of wired communications
   media may include a wire, cable, metal leads, printed circuit board (PCB), backplane, switch
 5 fabric, semiconductor material, twisted-pair wire, co-axial cable, fiber optics, and so forth.
   The embodiments are not limited in this context.
          FIG. 1 illustrates an example of an operating environment 100 such as may be
   representative of various embodiments. In operating environment 100, a user equipment (UE)
    102 is provided with wireless connectivity by a serving evolved node B (eNB) 104, which
10 generally provides wireless service within a serving cell 106. A proximate eNB 108 serves a
   nearby cell (not pictured). Serving eNB 104 and proximate eNB 108 are communicatively
   coupled by an X2 interface connection 110. Serving eNB 104 may be operative to transmit
   data to UE 102 over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of serving cell 106.
   Likewise, proximate eNB 108 may be operative to transmit data to UEs in the nearby cell
15 over a PDSCH of the nearby cell. The embodiments are not limited to the elements depicted
   in FIG. 1.
          FIG. 2 illustrates a PDSCH 200 such as may be representative of the PDSCHs over
   which serving eNB 104 and proximate eNB 108 of FIG. 1 may transmit data in some
   embodiments. More particularly, FIG. 2 illustrates the respective powers with which different
20 types of resource elements (REs) may be transmitted over PDSCH 200. In FIG. 2, transmit
   powers are depicted for a block of REs that comprises five OFDM symbols in the time
   dimension and twelve subcarriers in the frequency dimension. The depicted height of each
   RE indicates the respective power with which that RE is transmitted. Two of the REs are
   cell-specific reference signal (CRS) REs 202, while the remaining REs are PDSCH REs 204.
25 Hereinafter, an OFDM symbol during which CRS REs are transmitted shall be referred to as a
   "CRS OFDM symbol", and an OFDM symbol during which CRS REs are not transmitted
   shall be referred to as a "non-CRS OFDM symbol."
          As shown in FIG. 2, a common power level is applied with respect to all of the PDSCH
   REs 204 transmitted during non-CRS OFDM symbols. Another common power level is
30 applied with respect to transmission of CRS REs 202 and a third common power level is
   applied with respect to PDSCH REs 204 transmitted during CRS OFDM symbols. An eNB
   that transmits over PDSCH 200 may do so in accordance with a PDSCH power offset PA. As
                                                   4

   shown in FIG. 2, the PDSCH power offset PA may define a difference between - and, by
   extension, a ratio between - the transmit power used for CRS REs 202 and the transmit power
   used for PDSCH REs 204 during non-CRS OFDM symbols. The embodiments are not
   limited in this context.
 5        Returning to FIG. 1, under a variety of circumstances, downlink (DL) transmissions
   over the PDSCH of the nearby cell may be prone to interfering with DL transmissions from
   serving eNB 104 to UE 102 over the PDSCH in serving cell 106. One approach to mitigating
   such inter-cell interference may be the application of network-assisted interference
   cancellation/suppression (NAICS) techniques. According to NAICS techniques, as a UE
10 receives DL transmissions from its serving eNB, the UE may utilize various algorithms to
   mitigate inter-cell interference to which those DL transmissions are subject. For example, in
   conjunction with receiving a DL transmission from serving eNB 104 of FIG. 1, UE 102 may
   apply NAICS techniques to mitigate the extent to which a concurrent DL transmission by
   proximate eNB 108 interferes with the DL transmission from serving eNB 104. NAICS may
15 be regarded as a "UE-side" approach, in that it involves interference mitigation that is
   performed by the UE.
          It is worthy of note that although NAICS generally constitutes a UE-side approach, its
   effectiveness may be enhanced by leveraging knowledge of network-side parameters. Such
   network-side parameters may include parameters relating to communications in the serving
20 cell as well as parameters relating to communications in the proximate cell. Transmission
   power information is one type of information that may be of significant value in conjunction
   with UE application of NAICS techniques. In the context of interfering PDSCH
   transmissions, specific knowledge of the ratio of the respective powers with which CRS REs
   and PDSCH REs are transmitted may enable the application of more fruitful NAICS
25 algorithms than those that utilize mere estimates of that ratio. Since the PDSCH power offset
   determines the ratio between those respective powers, PDSCH power offsets are network-side
   parameters with respect to which knowledge of the implemented configuration(s) may be of
   significant value for use in NAICS. As such, in order to enhance the effectiveness of NAICS
   inter-cell interference mitigation in any particular cell, it may be desirable that the serving
30 eNB be configured to report PDSCH power offset information to UEs that it serves.
          FIG. 3 illustrates an example of an operating environment 300 in which
   communications may be exchanged among UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB
                                                    5

    108 of FIG. 1 in conjunction with the application of power offset signaling techniques for
   NAICS receivers in various embodiments. In operating environment 300, serving eNB 104
   may be operative to transmit a DL message 310 over a PDSCH 312 of a cell served by
   serving eNB 104. Concurrently, proximate eNB 108 may be operative to transmit a DL
 5 message 314 over a PDSCH of a cell that it serves. In some embodiments, serving eNB 104
   may serve a cell that constitutes a serving cell for UE 102, and proximate eNB 108 may serve
   a cell that neighbors - or is otherwise located in relatively close proximity to - the cell served
   by serving eNB 104. Hereinafter, the term "serving cell" is used to denote the cell served by
   serving eNB 104, and the term "proximate cell" is used to denote the cell served by proximate
10 eNB 108.
          In various embodiments, DL message 310 may comprise data intended for UE 102. In
   some embodiments, the transmission of DL message 314 by proximate eNB 108 may
   interfere with DL message 310, and may hinder the ability of UE 102 to successfully receive
   DL message 310 and extract the data comprised within. In various embodiments, in order to
15 mitigate the degree to which DL message 314 interferes with DL message 310, UE 102 may
   employ NAICS techniques. According to some such techniques in various embodiments, UE
    102 may utilize knowledge of various network-side parameters in order to implement NAICS
   inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms. In some embodiments, such network-side
   parameters may include parameters that describe configurations and/or operations of serving
20 eNB 104 and/or proximate eNB 108. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
          In various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be operative to send NAICS assistance
   information 320 to UE 102 in order to provide support for NAICS inter-cell interference
   mitigation at UE 102. In some embodiments, NAICS assistance information 320 may
   comprise one or more network-side parameters describing configurations and/or operations of
25 serving eNB 104 and/or proximate eNB 108. In various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may
   be operative to send NAICS assistance information 320 by including it in an RRC connection
   control message 316 that it sends to UE 102. In some embodiments, RRC connection control
   message 316 may comprise a message that serving eNB 104 sends in order to establish,
   reestablish, or reconfigure an RRC connection between serving eNB 104 and UE 102. In
30 various embodiments, RRC connection control message 316 may comprise an
   RRCConnectionSetup, RRCConnectionReestablishment,or RRCConnectionReconfiguration
   message according to 3GPP TS 36.331 v 12.1.0 (March 2014), and/or according to any
   predecessor, variant, or progeny thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
                                                    6

          In some embodiments, the information comprised in RRC connection control message
   316 may include RRC configuration information 318 that specifies various parameters
   relating to configuration of the RRC connection between serving eNB 104 and UE 102. In
   various embodiments, RRC configuration information 318 may be comprised in a
 5 RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield within RRC connection control message 316. In some
   embodiments, NAICS assistance information 320 may be comprised in RRC configuration
   information 318. In various embodiments, for example, NAICS assistance information 320
   may be comprised in one or more sub-fields of a RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield in an
   RRCConnectionSetup, RRCConnectionReestablishment,or RRCConnectionReconfiguration
10 message. In some embodiments, the presence of RRC configuration information 318 in RRC
   connection control message 316 may cause UE 102 to perform a radio resource configuration
   procedure in response to receipt of RRC connection control message 316. For example, in
   various embodiments, UE 102 may perform a radio resource configuration procedure in
   response to receipt of an RRC connection control message 316 containing RRC configuration
15 information 318 that comprises a RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. The embodiments
   are not limited in this context.
          In some embodiments, in order to enhance the effectiveness of NAICS inter-cell
   interference mitigation at UE 102, serving eNB 104 may be operative to include power offset
   information among the NAICS assistance information 320 that it sends to UE 102. In various
20 embodiments, for example, NAICS assistance information 320 may include serving cell
   power offset information 322. Serving cell power offset information 322 may generally
   comprise information characterizing the relative respective powers with which serving eNB
    104 transmits, has transmitted, and/or may transmit various types of REs to UE 102. In some
   embodiments, serving cell power offset information 322 may comprise one or more PDSCH
25 power offsets that are applicable to transmissions by serving eNB 104 over PDSCH 312. The
   embodiments are not limited in this context.
          In various embodiments, NAICS assistance information 320 may additionally or
   alternatively comprise proximate cell power offset information 324. Proximate cell power
   offset information 324 may generally comprise information characterizing the relative
30 respective powers with which proximate eNB 108 transmits, has transmitted, and/or may
   transmit various types of REs to UEs within the proximate cell. In some embodiments,
   proximate cell power offset information 324 may comprise one or more PDSCH power
   offsets that are applicable to transmissions by proximate eNB 108 over a PDSCH of the
                                                   7

   proximate cell. In various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be operative to receive
   proximate cell power offset information 324 from proximate eNB 108 and may then include it
   in NAICS assistance information 320. In some embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be
   operative to provide serving eNB 104 with proximate cell power offset information 324 by
 5 sending an inter-cell message 326 that comprises the proximate cell power offset information
   324. In various embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be operative to send inter-cell
   message 326 to serving eNB 104 over an X2 interface connection 328 between serving eNB
    104 and proximate eNB 108. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
          In some embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be operative to send NAICS assistance
10 information 320 - possibly encapsulated within RRC configuration information 318 and/or
   RRC connection control message 316 - to UE 102 over PDSCH 312. In various
   embodiments, following receipt of NAICS assistance information 320, UE 102 may be
   operative to store NAICS assistance information 320 for use in subsequent NAICS
   operations. In some embodiments, serving eNB 104 may periodically send current NAICS
15 assistance information 320 to UE 102. In various embodiments, UE 102 may periodically
   update or replace previously stored NAICS assistance information 320 with newly received
   NAICS assistance information 320. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
          As mentioned previously, in some embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be operative
   to transmit DL message 314 concurrently with the transmission of DL message 310 from
20 serving eNB 104 to UE 102. In various embodiments, in order to mitigate inter-cell
   interference with DL message 310 by DL message 314, UE 102 may be operative to use
   NAICS assistance information 320 to implement one or more NAICS interference mitigation
   techniques and/or algorithms. In some embodiments, UE 102 may use some or all of serving
   cell power offset information 322 and/or proximate cell power offset information 324 to
25 implement one or more of those NAICS interference mitigation techniques and/or algorithms.
   The embodiments are not limited in this context.
          In various embodiments, the PDSCH power offset that serving eNB 104 applies when
   transmitting over PDSCH 312 may depend on the modulation scheme being used, such that
   the CRS/PDSCH transmission power ratio associated with one modulation scheme may differ
30 from that associated with another modulation scheme. In some embodiments, UE 102 may
   already have knowledge of the PDSCH power offset that serving eNB 104 uses in conjunction
   with some modulation schemes, but may not have knowledge of the PDSCH power offset that
                                                 8

   serving eNB 104 uses in conjunction with other modulation schemes. In various
   embodiments, for example, UE 102 may have knowledge of a PDSCH power offset PA that
   serving eNB 104 uses in conjunction with quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) schemes
   such as 16QAM, 64QAM, and/or 256 QAM, but may not have knowledge of the
 5 CRS/PDSCH transmission power ratio(s) that serving eNB 104 uses in conjunction with
   quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK) modulation. The embodiments are not limited to this
   example.
         In some embodiments, in order to inform UE 102 of one or more modulation-specific
   CRS/PDSCH transmission power ratios to which it would not otherwise be privy, serving
10 eNB 104 may include one or more PDSCH power offset values in serving cell power offset
   information 322. For example, in various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may include a
   PDSCH power offset PA2 within serving cell power offset information 322, and the PDSCH
   power offset PA2 may comprise a dedicated power offset for QPSK modulation. In some
   embodiments, the PDSCH power offset PA2 may apply to some applications of QPSK
15 modulation but not to other applications of QPSK modulation. For example, in various
   embodiments, the PDSCH power offset PA2 may apply only to QPSK-modulated cell radio
   network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based PDSCH transmissions. In another example, in
   some embodiments, the PDSCH power offset PA2 may apply only to QPSK-modulated C
   RNTI-based PDSCH transmissions and QPSK-modulated semi-persistent scheduling (SPS)
20 C-RNTI-based PDSCH transmissions. In various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be
   configured to select a value of PA2 from among a defined set of permitted values. In some
   such embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to select the value of PA2 from
   among a same defined set of permitted values as that from among which it selects PA. In an
   example embodiment, serving eNB 104 may be configured to select PA values and PA2 values
25 from among a same permitted value set of {-6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2
   dB, 3 dB}. In various other embodiments, different sets of permitted values may be defined
   for PA and PA2, and serving eNB 104 may be configured to select PA and PA2 values from
   among their respective permitted value sets. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
         It is worthy of note that in some embodiments, rather than implementing a dedicated
30 power offset PA2 for QPSK modulation, serving eNB 104 may be configured apply the QAM
   associated power offset PA to some or all types of QPSK-modulated transmissions over
   PDSCH 312. For example, in various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to
   apply the power offset PA to QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based PDSCH transmissions and/or
                                                  9

   QPSK-modulated SPS C-RNTI-based PDSCH transmissions but not to other QPSK
   modulated PDSCH transmissions. The embodiments are not limited to this example.
         In some embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to operate in accordance
   with one or more subframe-specific PDSCH power offset parameters. For example, in
 5 various embodiments, a PDSCH power offset        PA(ABS)  may be defined that applies to almost
   blank subframes (ABSs). In some embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to
   select a PA(ABS) value for application to PDSCH transmissions during ABSs and to select a PA
   value for application to PDSCH transmissions during other subframes. In various
   embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to include the selected         PA(ABS) value in
10 serving cell power offset information 322. In some embodiments, a set of permitted values
   for PA(ABS) may be defined that is distinct from a set of permitted values for PA, and serving
   eNB 104 may be configured to select PA and      PA(ABS)  values from their respective permitted
   value sets. In various other embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to select
   PA(ABS)  values from among the same set of permitted values as that from among which it
15 selects PA values.
         In some embodiments, the use of subframe-specific PDSCH power offset parameter(s)
   may be combined with the use of modulation-specific PDSCH power offset parameter(s). For
   example, in various embodiments, serving eNB 104 may be configured to observe a PDSCH
   power offset PA that applies to 16QAM, 64QAM, and 256QAM-modulated PDSCH
20 transmissions, to observe a PDSCH power offset       PA(ABS) that applies to QPSK-modulated
   PDSCH transmissions during ABSs, and to observe a PDSCH power offset            PA2  that applies to
   QPSK-modulated PDSCH transmissions during subframes that are not ABSs. Likewise, in
   some embodiments, the use of subframe-specific permitted value set(s) may be combined
   with the use of modulation-specific permitted value set(s). It is worthy of note that in various
25 embodiments, there may not be a one-to-one correspondence between the number of distinct
   PDSCH power offset parameters and the number of distinct permitted value sets. For
   example, in the aforementioned scenario in which serving eNB 104 is configured to observe
   PDSCH power offset parameters       PA, PA2, and PA(ABS), it may be configured to select  PA(ABS)
   values from among the same set of permitted values as that from among which it selects        PA2
30 values. The embodiments are not limited to this example.
         It is to be appreciated that the PDSCH power offset value(s) that serving eNB 104
   applies when transmitting to UE 102 may not necessarily be the same as the PDSCH power
                                                    10

   offset value(s) that serving eNB 104 applies when transmitting to any other particular UE in
   the serving cell. For example, serving eNB 104 may report a first PA value and/or a first PA2
   value to UE 102, transmit data to UE 102 over PDSCH 312 according to the first PA value
   and/or the first PA2 value, report a second PA value and/or a second PA2 value to a second UE,
 5 and transmit data to UE 102 over PDSCH 312 according to the second PA value and/or the
   second PA2 value. In other words, in some embodiments, the PDSCH power offset value(s)
   that serving eNB 104 select and applies may be UE-specific.
          Likewise, in various embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be configured to select and
   apply UE-specific PDSCH power offset values that may differ from UE to UE. As such,
10 during any given time interval, proximate eNB 108 may perform PDSCH transmission
   according to multiple power offset values. Since proximate eNB 108 has no way of knowing
   which of its PDSCH transmissions will or will not result in interference with a given message
   at a given UE in the serving cell at a given time, proximate eNB 108 may not be able to
   specify the "correct" power offset value(s) that UE 102 should assume with respect to any
15 particular interfering transmission. However, with respect to a given time interval, proximate
   eNB 108 may still be able to provide assistance for NAICS interference mitigation at UE 102
   - and/or for NAICS interference mitigation at other UEs in the serving cell and/or other
   nearby cells - by forwarding proximate cell power offset information 324 that identifies the
   set(s) of particular PDSCH power offset values that proximate eNB 108 employs, employed,
20 or will employ during that time interval.
          In some embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be configured to send proximate cell
   power offset information 324 that identifies - from among a defined set of allowed PDSCH
   power offset values - a subset of one or more PDSCH power offset values that proximate
   eNB 108 has used, uses, or expects to use during any given time interval. For example, in
25 various embodiments, the allowed values of power offset PA may comprise the set {-6 dB,
   4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, 3 dB}. In such an embodiment, if proximate eNB
    108 only expects to use PA values of -3 dB, 0 dB, and 3 dB, it may send proximate cell power
   offset information 324 that identifies the subset {-3 dB, 0 dB, 3 dB}. The embodiments are
   not limited to this example.
30        In some embodiments, proximate eNB 108 may be configured to send proximate cell
   power offset information 324 that identifies multiple subsets of PDSCH power offset values,
   where each subset corresponds to one or more respective modulation schemes. For example,
                                                   11

   in various embodiments in which distinct PDSCH power offset parameters PA and PA2 are
   implemented, proximate cell power offset information 324 may include a first subset
   containing the value(s) that proximate eNB 108 expects to use for PA and a second subset
   containing the value(s) it expects to use for PA2. In some embodiments, for a PDSCH power
 5 offset parameter that applies to multiple modulation schemes, proximate cell power offset
   information 324 may include multiple subsets, each of which may correspond to a particular
   respective scheme or subset of schemes. For example, in various embodiments in which
   PDSCH power offset parameter PA is applicable to both 16QAM-modulated and 64QAM
   modulated transmissions, proximate cell power offset information 324 may comprise a first
10 subset containing the PA value(s) that proximate eNB 108 expects to use for 16QAM
   modulated PDSCH transmissions and a second subset containing the PA value(s) that
   proximate eNB 108 expects to use for 64QAM-modulated PDSCH transmissions. In some
   embodiments in which proximate cell power offset information 324 includes multiple subsets
   associated with a same PDSCH power offset parameter, it may also include one or more
15 additional subsets associated with one or more additional PDSCH power offset parameters.
   For example, in various embodiments, proximate cell power offset information 324 may
   comprise a first subset containing the PA value(s) that proximate eNB 108 expects to use for
    16QAM-modulated PDSCH transmissions, a second subset containing the PA value(s) that
   proximate eNB 108 expects to use for 64QAM-modulated PDSCH transmissions, and a third
20 subset containing the PA2 value(s) that proximate eNB 108 expects to use for QPSK
   modulated PDSCH transmissions. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.
         In some embodiments in which distinct power offset parameters PA and PA2 are
   implemented, the same defined set of permitted values may apply to both. As such, in various
   embodiments in which proximate cell power offset information 324 contains first and second
25 subsets respectively comprising PA values and PA2 values, those first and second subsets may
   comprise subsets of a same set of permitted values. In some other embodiments in which
   distinct power offset parameters PA and PA2 are implemented, different respective sets of
   permitted values may be defined for PA and PA2. Thus, in various other embodiments in
   which proximate cell power offset information 324 contains first and second subsets
30 respectively comprising PA values and PA2 values, those first and second subsets may
   comprise subsets of different respective sets of permitted values. The embodiments are not
   limited in this context.
          Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the
                                                   12

   following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow.
   Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic flow, it can be
   appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an example of how the general functionality
   as described herein can be implemented. Further, the given logic flow does not necessarily
 5 have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition, the given
   logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element, a software element executed by a
   processor, or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
         FIG. 4 illustrates one embodiment of a logic flow 400, which may be representative of
   operations executed by serving eNB 104 of FIGs. 1 and/or 3 in some embodiments. As
10 shown in FIG. 4, a power offset value for a QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission
   over a PDSCH may be selected at 402. For example, serving eNB 104 of FIG. 3 may be
   operative to select a power offset value for a QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission to
   UE 102 over PDSCH 312. In various embodiments, the power offset value for the QPSK
   modulated C-RNTI-based transmission may comprise a value for a power offset parameter
15 that determines a ratio between a PDSCH energy per resource element (EPRE) and a CRS
   EPRE for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission. In some embodiments, the
   power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission may be selected
   from among a defined set of values. In various embodiments, the defined set of values may
   comprise the set {-6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, 3 dB}. The
20 embodiments are not limited in this context.
         In some embodiments, a power offset value for a QAM-modulated transmission over
   the PDSCH may also be selected. For example, serving eNB 104 of FIG. 3 may also be
   operative to select a power offset value for a QAM-modulated transmission to UE 102 over
   PDSCH 312. In various embodiments, the power offset value for the QAM-modulated
25 transmission may comprise a value for a power offset parameter that determines a ratio
   between a PDSCH EPRE and a CRS EPRE for the QAM-modulated transmission. In some
   embodiments, the power offset value for the QAM-modulated transmission and the power
   offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission may be selected from
   among a common set of values. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
30       At 404, an RRC connection control message may be transmitted that comprises NAICS
   assistance information identifying the selected power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C
   RNTI-based transmission to the UE. For example, serving eNB 104 of FIG. 3 may be
                                                   13

   operative to transmit an RRC connection control message 316 comprising NAICS assistance
   information 320 that identifies the power offset value that it has selected for the QPSK
   modulated C-RNTI-based transmission to UE 102. In various embodiments, the RRC
   connection control message may comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
 5 RRCConnectionReestablishmentmessage, or an RRCConnectionReconfigurationmessage. In
   some embodiments, the NAICS assistance information may be comprised within a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield of the RRC connection control message. In various
   such embodiments, the NAICS assistance information may be comprised within a subfield of
   the RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
10       In some embodiments in which a power offset value is also selected for a QAM
   modulated transmission to the UE, the RRC connection control message may also comprise
   information identifying the selected power offset value for the QAM-modulated transmission
   to the UE. For example, RRC connection control message 316 of FIG. 3 may comprise
   information identifying a power offset value that serving eNB 104 has selected for a QAM
15 modulated transmission to UE 102 over PDSCH 312, as well as NAICS assistance
   information 320 identifying the power offset value that serving eNB 104 has selected for the
   QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission to UE 102 over PDSCH 312. In various
   embodiments, the information identifying the selected power offset value for the QAM
   modulated transmission may be comprised within an RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield of
20 the RRC connection control message. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
         At 406, the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission may be performed in
   accordance with the power offset value that has been selected for the QPSK-modulated C
   RNTI-based transmission. For example, serving eNB 104 of FIG. 3 may be operative to
   perform a QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission to UE 102 over PDSCH 312 in
25 accordance with a power offset value that it has selected and reported to UE 102 via RRC
   connection control message 316. In some embodiments in which a power offset value is also
   selected for a QAM-modulated transmission to the UE, the QAM-modulated transmission
   may be performed in accordance with that selected power offset value. For example, serving
   eNB 104 of FIG. 3 may be operative to perform a QAM-modulated transmission to UE 102
30 over PDSCH 312 in accordance with a power offset value that it has selected and reported to
   UE 102 via RRC connection control message 316. The embodiments are not limited in this
   context.
                                                  14

         FIG. 5 illustrates one embodiment of a logic flow 500, which may be representative of
   operations executed by UE 102 of FIG. 3 in various embodiments. As shown in FIG. 5, an
   RRC connection control message may be received at 502 that comprises NAICS assistance
   information identifying a power offset value for QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based
 5 transmissions to a UE over a PDSCH of a serving cell of the UE. For example, UE 102 of
   FIG. 3 may be operative to receive an RRC connection control message 316 comprising
   NAICS assistance information 320 that identifies a power offset value for QPSK-modulated
   C-RNTI-based transmissions from serving eNB 104 to UE 102 over PDSCH 312. In some
   embodiments, the RRC connection control message may comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
10 message, an RRCConnectionReestablishmentmessage, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration
   message. In various embodiments, the RRC connection control message may comprise a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. In some embodiments, the NAICS assistance
   information may be comprised within the RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. In various
   embodiments, the NAICS assistance information may be comprised within a subfield of the
15 RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. In some embodiments, the power offset value may be
   comprised among a defined set of values. In various embodiments, the defined set of values
   may comprise the set {-6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, 3 dB}. In some
   embodiments, the RRC connection control message may also comprise information
   identifying a power offset value for one or more quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)
20 modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell. The embodiments
   are not limited in this context.
         At 504, a radio resource configuration procedure may be performed in response to
   receipt of the RRC connection control message. In various embodiments, the radio resource
   configuration procedure may be performed based on the presence of a
25 RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield within the RRC connection control message. For
   example, UE 102 of FIG. 3 may be operative to perform a radio resource configuration
   procedure in response to receipt of a RRC connection control message 316 comprising a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicatedfield. At 506, one or more NAICS inter-cell interference
   mitigation algorithms may be applied to one or more transmissions received over the PDSCH
30 of the serving cell based on the power offset value for QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based
   transmissions to the UE. For example, UE 102 of FIG. 3 may be operative to apply one or
   more NAICS inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms to DL message 310 based on a
   received power offset value for QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmissions to UE 102
   over PDSCH 312. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
                                                  15

         FIG. 6 illustrates one embodiment of a logic flow 600, which may be representative of
   operations executed by proximate eNB 108 of FIG. 3 in some embodiments. As shown in
   FIG. 6, one or more power offset values to be applied to DL transmissions over a PDSCH
   may be identified at 602. For example, proximate eNB 108 of FIG. 3 may be operative to
 5 identify one or more power offset values to apply to DL transmissions over a PDSCH of a cell
   served by proximate eNB 108. At 604, a message may be sent over an X2 interface to report
   the one or more power offset values. For example, proximate eNB 108 of FIG. 3 may be
   operative to send an inter-cell message 326 comprising proximate cell power offset
   information 324 to serving eNB 104 over X2 interface connection 328 in order to report the
10 one or more power offset values that it has selected for DL transmissions over the PDSCH of
   the cell served by proximate eNB 108. At 606, one or more DL transmissions may be
   performed over the PDSCH according to the one or more power offset values. For example,
   proximate eNB 108 of FIG. 3 may be operative to perform one or more DL PDSCH
   transmissions according to one or more power offset values that it has selected and reported to
15 serving eNB 104. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
         FIG. 7A illustrates an embodiment of a storage medium 700. Storage medium 700 may
   comprise any non-transitory computer-readable storage medium or machine-readable storage
   medium, such as an optical, magnetic or semiconductor storage medium. In various
   embodiments, storage medium 700 may comprise an article of manufacture. In some
20 embodiments, storage medium 700 may store computer-executable instructions, such as
   computer-executable instructions to implement logic flow 400 of FIG. 4 and/or logic flow 600
   of FIG. 6. Examples of a computer-readable storage medium or machine-readable storage
   medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data, including volatile
   memory or non-volatile memory, removable or non-removable memory, erasable or non
25 erasable memory, writeable or re-writeable memory, and so forth. Examples of computer
   executable instructions may include any suitable type of code, such as source code, compiled
   code, interpreted code, executable code, static code, dynamic code, object-oriented code,
   visual code, and the like. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
         FIG. 7B illustrates an embodiment of a storage medium 750. Storage medium 750 may
30 comprise any non-transitory computer-readable storage medium or machine-readable storage
   medium, such as an optical, magnetic or semiconductor storage medium. In various
   embodiments, storage medium 750 may comprise an article of manufacture. In some
   embodiments, storage medium 750 may store computer-executable instructions, such as
                                                   16

   computer-executable instructions to implement logic flow 500 of FIG. 5. Examples of a
   computer-readable storage medium, a machine-readable storage medium, and computer
   executable instructions may include - without limitation - any of the respective examples
   previously mentioned with respect to storage medium 700 of FIG. 7A. The embodiments are
 5 not limited in this context.
          FIG. 8 illustrates an embodiment of a device 800 that may implement one or more of
   UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB 108 of FIGs. 1 and 3, logic flow 400 of FIG. 4,
   logic flow 500 of FIG. 5, logic flow 600 of FIG. 6, storage medium 700 of FIG. 7A, and
   storage medium 750 of FIG. 7B. In various embodiments, device 800 may comprise a logic
10 circuit 828. The logic circuit 828 may include physical circuits to perform operations
   described for one or more of UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB 108 of FIGs. 1
   and 3, logic flow 400 of FIG. 4, logic flow 500 of FIG. 5, and logic flow 600 of FIG. 6, for
   example. As shown in FIG. 8, device 800 may include a radio interface 810, baseband
   circuitry 820, and computing platform 830, although the embodiments are not limited to this
15 configuration.
          The device 800 may implement some or all of the structure and/or operations for one or
   more of UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB 108 of FIGs. 1 and 3, logic flow 400
   of FIG. 4, logic flow 500 of FIG. 5, logic flow 600 of FIG. 6, storage medium 700 of FIG.
   7A, storage medium 750 of FIG. 7B, and logic circuit 828 in a single computing entity, such
20 as entirely within a single device. Alternatively, the device 800 may distribute portions of the
   structure and/or operations for one or more of UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB
   108 of FIGs. 1 and 3, logic flow 400 of FIG. 4, logic flow 500 of FIG. 5, logic flow 600 of
   FIG. 6, storage medium 700 of FIG. 7A, storage medium 750 of FIG. 7B, and logic circuit
   828 across multiple computing entities using a distributed system architecture, such as a
25 client-server architecture, a 3-tier architecture, an N-tier architecture, a tightly-coupled or
   clustered architecture, a peer-to-peer architecture, a master-slave architecture, a shared
   database architecture, and other types of distributed systems. The embodiments are not
   limited in this context.
          In one embodiment, radio interface 810 may include a component or combination of
30 components adapted for transmitting and/or receiving single-carrier or multi-carrier
   modulated signals (e.g., including complementary code keying (CCK), orthogonal frequency
   division multiplexing (OFDM), and/or single-carrier frequency division multiple access (SC
                                                     17

   FDMA) symbols) although the embodiments are not limited to any specific over-the-air
   interface or modulation scheme. Radio interface 810 may include, for example, a receiver
   812, a frequency synthesizer 814, and/or a transmitter 816. Radio interface 810 may include
   bias controls, a crystal oscillator and/or one or more antennas 818-f In another embodiment,
 5 radio interface 810 may use external voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs), surface acoustic
   wave filters, intermediate frequency (IF) filters and/or RF filters, as desired. Due to the
   variety of potential RF interface designs an expansive description thereof is omitted.
          Baseband circuitry 820 may communicate with radio interface 810 to process receive
   and/or transmit signals and may include, for example, an analog-to-digital converter 822 for
10 down converting received signals, a digital-to-analog converter 824 for up converting signals
   for transmission. Further, baseband circuitry 820 may include a baseband or physical layer
   (PHY) processing circuit 826 for PHY link layer processing of respective receive/transmit
   signals. Baseband circuitry 820 may include, for example, a medium access control (MAC)
   processing circuit 827 for MAC/data link layer processing. Baseband circuitry 820 may
15 include a memory controller 832 for communicating with MAC processing circuit 827 and/or
   a computing platform 830, for example, via one or more interfaces 834.
          In some embodiments, PHY processing circuit 826 may include a frame construction
   and/or detection module, in combination with additional circuitry such as a buffer memory, to
   construct and/or deconstruct communication frames. Alternatively or in addition, MAC
20 processing circuit 827 may share processing for certain of these functions or perform these
   processes independent of PHY processing circuit 826. In some embodiments, MAC and PHY
   processing may be integrated into a single circuit.
          The computing platform 830 may provide computing functionality for the device 800.
   As shown, the computing platform 830 may include a processing component 840. In addition
25 to, or alternatively of, the baseband circuitry 820, the device 800 may execute processing
   operations or logic for one or more of UE 102, serving eNB 104, and proximate eNB 108 of
   FIGs. 1 and 3, logic flow 400 of FIG. 4, logic flow 500 of FIG. 5, logic flow 600 of FIG. 6,
   storage medium 700 of FIG. 7A, storage medium 750 of FIG. 7B, and logic circuit 828 using
   the processing component 840. The processing component 840 (and/or PHY 826 and/or
30 MAC 827) may comprise various hardware elements, software elements, or a combination of
   both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices, logic devices, components,
   processors, microprocessors, circuits, processor circuits, circuit elements (e.g., transistors,
                                                    18

   resistors, capacitors, inductors, and so forth), integrated circuits, application specific
   integrated circuits (ASIC), programmable logic devices (PLD), digital signal processors
   (DSP), field programmable gate array (FPGA), memory units, logic gates, registers,
   semiconductor device, chips, microchips, chip sets, and so forth. Examples of software
 5 elements may include software components, programs, applications, computer programs,
   application programs, system programs, software development programs, machine programs,
   operating system software, middleware, firmware, software modules, routines, subroutines,
   functions, methods, procedures, software interfaces, application program interfaces (API),
   instruction sets, computing code, computer code, code segments, computer code segments,
10 words, values, symbols, or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is
   implemented using hardware elements and/or software elements may vary in accordance with
   any number of factors, such as desired computational rate, power levels, heat tolerances,
   processing cycle budget, input data rates, output data rates, memory resources, data bus
   speeds and other design or performance constraints, as desired for a given implementation.
15        The computing platform 830 may further include other platform components 850.
   Other platform components 850 include common computing elements, such as one or more
   processors, multi-core processors, co-processors, memory units, chipsets, controllers,
   peripherals, interfaces, oscillators, timing devices, video cards, audio cards, multimedia
   input/output (1/0) components (e.g., digital displays), power supplies, and so forth. Examples
20 of memory units may include without limitation various types of computer readable and
   machine readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units, such
   as read-only memory (ROM), random-access memory (RAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM),
   Double-Data-Rate DRAM (DDRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), static RAM (SRAM),
   programmable ROM (PROM), erasable programmable ROM (EPROM), electrically erasable
25 programmable ROM (EEPROM), flash memory, polymer memory such as ferroelectric
   polymer memory, ovonic memory, phase change or ferroelectric memory, silicon-oxide
   nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS) memory, magnetic or optical cards, an array of devices such as
   Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) drives, solid state memory devices (e.g., USB
   memory, solid state drives (SSD) and any other type of storage media suitable for storing
30 information.
          Device 800 may be, for example, an ultra-mobile device, a mobile device, a fixed
   device, a machine-to-machine (M2M) device, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile
   computing device, a smart phone, a telephone, a digital telephone, a cellular telephone, user
                                                     19

   equipment, eBook readers, a handset, a one-way pager, a two-way pager, a messaging device,
   a computer, a personal computer (PC), a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a notebook
   computer, a netbook computer, a handheld computer, a tablet computer, a server, a server
   array or server farm, a web server, a network server, an Internet server, a work station, a mini
 5 computer, a main frame computer, a supercomputer, a network appliance, a web appliance, a
   distributed computing system, multiprocessor systems, processor-based systems, consumer
   electronics, programmable consumer electronics, game devices, display, television, digital
   television, set top box, wireless access point, base station, node B, subscriber station, mobile
   subscriber center, radio network controller, router, hub, gateway, bridge, switch, machine, or
10 combination thereof. Accordingly, functions and/or specific configurations of device 800
   described herein, may be included or omitted in various embodiments of device 800, as
   suitably desired.
          Embodiments of device 800 may be implemented using single input single output
   (SISO) architectures. However, certain implementations may include multiple antennas (e.g.,
15 antennas 818-]) for transmission and/or reception using adaptive antenna techniques for
   beamforming or spatial division multiple access (SDMA) and/or using MIMO communication
   techniques.
          The components and features of device 800 may be implemented using any
   combination of discrete circuitry, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), logic gates
20 and/or single chip architectures. Further, the features of device 800 may be implemented
   using microcontrollers, programmable logic arrays and/or microprocessors or any
   combination of the foregoing where suitably appropriate. It is noted that hardware, firmware
   and/or software elements may be collectively or individually referred to herein as "logic" or
   "circuit."
25        It should be appreciated that the exemplary device 800 shown in the block diagram of
   FIG. 8 may represent one functionally descriptive example of many potential
   implementations. Accordingly, division, omission or inclusion of block functions depicted in
   the accompanying figures does not infer that the hardware components, circuits, software
   and/or elements for implementing these functions would be necessarily be divided, omitted,
30 or included in embodiments.
          FIG. 9 illustrates an embodiment of a broadband wireless access system 900. As
   shown in FIG. 9, broadband wireless access system 900 may be an internet protocol (IP) type
                                                    20

   network comprising an internet 910 type network or the like that is capable of supporting
   mobile wireless access and/or fixed wireless access to internet 910. In one or more
   embodiments, broadband wireless access system 900 may comprise any type of orthogonal
   frequency division multiple access (OFDMA)-based or single-carrier frequency division
 5 multiple access (SC-FDMA)-based wireless network, such as a system compliant with one or
   more of the 3GPP LTE Specifications and/or IEEE 802.16 Standards, and the scope of the
   claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.
          In the exemplary broadband wireless access system 900, radio access networks (RANs)
   912 and 918 are capable of coupling with evolved node Bs (eNBs) 914 and 920, respectively,
10 to provide wireless communication between one or more fixed devices 916 and internet 910
   and/or between or one or more mobile devices 922 and Internet 910. One example of a fixed
   device 916 and a mobile device 922 is device 800 of FIG. 8, with the fixed device 916
   comprising a stationary version of device 800 and the mobile device 922 comprising a mobile
   version of device 800. RANs 912 and 918 may implement profiles that are capable of
15 defining the mapping of network functions to one or more physical entities on broadband
   wireless access system 900. eNBs 914 and 920 may comprise radio equipment to provide RF
   communication with fixed device 916 and/or mobile device 922, such as described with
   reference to device 800, and may comprise, for example, the PHY and MAC layer equipment
   in compliance with a 3GPP LTE Specification or an IEEE 802.16 Standard. eNBs 914 and
20 920 may further comprise an IP backplane to couple to Internet 910 via RANs 912 and 918,
   respectively, although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.
          Broadband wireless access system 900 may further comprise a visited core network
   (CN) 924 and/or a home CN 926, each of which may be capable of providing one or more
   network functions including but not limited to proxy and/or relay type functions, for example
25 authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA) functions, dynamic host configuration
   protocol (DHCP) functions, or domain name service controls or the like, domain gateways
   such as public switched telephone network (PSTN) gateways or voice over internet protocol
   (VoIP) gateways, and/or internet protocol (IP) type server functions, or the like. However,
   these are merely example of the types of functions that are capable of being provided by
30 visited CN 924 and/or home CN 926, and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not
   limited in these respects. Visited CN 924 may be referred to as a visited CN in the case where
   visited CN 924 is not part of the regular service provider of fixed device 916 or mobile device
   922, for example where fixed device 916 or mobile device 922 is roaming away from its
                                                   21

   respective home CN 926, or where broadband wireless access system 900 is part of the
   regular service provider of fixed device 916 or mobile device 922 but where broadband
   wireless access system 900 may be in another location or state that is not the main or home
   location of fixed device 916 or mobile device 922. The embodiments are not limited in this
 5 context.
          Fixed device 916 may be located anywhere within range of one or both of eNBs 914
   and 920, such as in or near a home or business to provide home or business customer
   broadband access to Internet 910 via eNBs 914 and 920 and RANs 912 and 918, respectively,
   and home CN 926. It is worthy of note that although fixed device 916 is generally disposed
10 in a stationary location, it may be moved to different locations as needed. Mobile device 922
   may be utilized at one or more locations if mobile device 922 is within range of one or both of
   eNBs 914 and 920, for example. In accordance with one or more embodiments, operation
   support system (OSS) 928 may be part of broadband wireless access system 900 to provide
   management functions for broadband wireless access system 900 and to provide interfaces
15 between functional entities of broadband wireless access system 900. Broadband wireless
   access system 900 of FIG. 9 is merely one type of wireless network showing a certain number
   of the components of broadband wireless access system 900, and the scope of the claimed
   subject matter is not limited in these respects.
          Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements, software
20 elements, or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors,
   microprocessors, circuits, circuit elements (e.g., transistors, resistors, capacitors, inductors,
   and so forth), integrated circuits, application specific integrated circuits (ASIC),
   programmable logic devices (PLD), digital signal processors (DSP), field programmable gate
   array (FPGA), logic gates, registers, semiconductor device, chips, microchips, chip sets, and
25 so forth. Examples of software may include software components, programs, applications,
   computer programs, application programs, system programs, machine programs, operating
   system software, middleware, firmware, software modules, routines, subroutines, functions,
   methods, procedures, software interfaces, application program interfaces (API), instruction
   sets, computing code, computer code, code segments, computer code segments, words,
30 values, symbols, or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is
   implemented using hardware elements and/or software elements may vary in accordance with
   any number of factors, such as desired computational rate, power levels, heat tolerances,
   processing cycle budget, input data rates, output data rates, memory resources, data bus
                                                    22

   speeds and other design or performance constraints.
           One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative
   instructions stored on a machine-readable medium which represents various logic within the
   processor, which when read by a machine causes the machine to fabricate logic to perform the
 5 techniques described herein. Such representations, known as "IP cores" may be stored on a
   tangible, machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing
   facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.
   Some embodiments may be implemented, for example, using a machine-readable medium or
   article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that, if executed by a machine,
10 may cause the machine to perform a method and/or operations in accordance with the
   embodiments. Such a machine may include, for example, any suitable processing platform,
   computing platform, computing device, processing device, computing system, processing
   system, computer, processor, or the like, and may be implemented using any suitable
   combination of hardware and/or software. The machine-readable medium or article may
15 include, for example, any suitable type of memory unit, memory device, memory article,
   memory medium, storage device, storage article, storage medium and/or storage unit, for
   example, memory, removable or non-removable media, erasable or non-erasable media,
   writeable or re-writeable media, digital or analog media, hard disk, floppy disk, Compact Disk
   Read Only Memory (CD-ROM), Compact Disk Recordable (CD-R), Compact Disk
20 Rewriteable (CD-RW), optical disk, magnetic media, magneto-optical media, removable
   memory cards or disks, various types of Digital Versatile Disk (DVD), a tape, a cassette, or
   the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code, such as source code,
   compiled code, interpreted code, executable code, static code, dynamic code, encrypted code,
   and the like, implemented using any suitable high-level, low-level, object-oriented, visual,
25 compiled and/or interpreted programming language.
          The following examples pertain to further embodiments:
          Example 1 is an evolved node B (eNB), comprising: logic, at least a portion of which is
   in hardware, the logic to select a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying
   (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over
30 a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB and send a radio
   resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising network-assisted interference
   cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the selected
                                                   23

   power offset value.
          Example 2 is the eNB of Example 1, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised
   within a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field of the RRC connection control message.
          Example 3 is the eNB of Example 1, the power offset value to comprise a value for a
 5 power offset parameter that determines a ratio between a PDSCH energy per resource element
   (EPRE) and a cell-specific reference signal (CRS) EPRE.
          Example 4 is the eNB of Example 1, the logic to select the power offset value for the
   QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH and a power offset value for a
   quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH from
10 among a common set of values.
          Example 5 is the eNB of Example 1, the logic to select the power offset value for the
   QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH from among a defined set of
   values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 6 is the eNB of Example 1, the RRC connection control message to comprise
15 an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 7 is the eNB of any of Examples 1 to 6, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
          Example 8 is the eNB of Example 7, comprising at least one memory unit.
20        Example 9 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising
   a set of instructions that, in response to being executed by user equipment (UE), cause the UE
   to: receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field, the RRC connection control message to comprise
   network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information
25 that identifies a power offset value for one or more transmissions to the UE over a physical
   downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE; and perform a radio resource
   configuration procedure in response to receipt of the RRC connection control message.
          Example 10 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 9, the one or more transmissions to comprise quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)
                                                    24

   modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions.
          Example 11 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 10, the RRC connection control message to comprise information identifying a
   power offset value for one or more quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated
 5 transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
          Example 12 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 9, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 13 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
10 Example 9, the power offset value to be comprised among a defined set of values comprising
   -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 14 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 9, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
   message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
15 RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 15 is a wireless communication method, comprising: selecting, by processing
   circuitry at an evolved node B (eNB), a first power offset value comprising a power offset
   value for a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary
   identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of
20 a cell served by the eNB; selecting a second power offset value comprising a power offset
   value for a quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the
   PDSCH of the cell served by the eNB; and transmitting a radio resource control (RRC)
   connection control message containing a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field that comprises
   the first power offset value and the second power offset value.
25        Example 16 is the wireless communication method of Example 15, the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation
   and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the first power offset value.
          Example 17 is the wireless communication method of Example 16, the NAICS
   assistance information to be comprised in a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated
30 field.
                                                  25

          Example 18 is the wireless communication method of Example 15, comprising selecting
   the first power offset value and the second power offset value from among a common set of
   values.
          Example 19 is the wireless communication method of Example 15, comprising selecting
 5 the first power offset value from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3
   dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 20 is the wireless communication method of Example 15, the RRC connection
   control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
   RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
10        Example 21 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device,
   cause the computing device to perform a wireless communication method according to any of
   Examples 15 to 20.
          Example 22 is an apparatus, comprising means for performing a wireless
15 communication method according to any of Examples 15 to 20.
          Example 23 is a system, comprising: an apparatus according to Example 22; one or
   more radio frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
          Example 24 is the system of Example 23, comprising at least one memory unit.
          Example 25 is user equipment (UE), comprising: means for receiving a radio resource
20 control (RRC) connection control message; and means for performing a radio resource
   configuration procedure based on a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field comprised in the
   RRC connection control message, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise
   network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information
   specifying a power offset value for quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell
25 radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions to the UE over a physical
   downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE.
          Example 26 is the UE of Example 25, the NAICS assistance information to be
   comprised within a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 27 is the UE of Example 25, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to
                                                   26

   comprise information identifying a power offset value for quadrature amplitude modulation
   (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
          Example 28 is the UE of Example 25, the power offset value to be comprised among a
   defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3
 5 dB.
          Example 29 is the UE of Example 25, the RRC connection control message to comprise
   an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 30 is the UE of Example 25, comprising means for applying one or more
10 NACIS inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms based on the power offset value for
   QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell
   of the UE.
          Example 31 is the UE of any of Examples 25 to 30, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
15        Example 32 is the UE of Example 31, comprising a touchscreen display.
          Example 33 is a wireless communication method, comprising: receiving, at user
   equipment (UE) a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field, the RRC connection control message to comprise
   network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information
20 that identifies a power offset value for one or more transmissions to the UE over a physical
   downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE; and performing, by processing
   circuitry of the UE, a radio resource configuration procedure in response to receipt of the
   RRC connection control message.
          Example 34 is the wireless communication method of Example 33, the one or more
25 transmissions to comprise quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio
   network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions.
          Example 35 is the wireless communication method of Example 34, the RRC connection
   control message to comprise information identifying a power offset value for one or more
   quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the
                                                   27

   PDSCH of the serving cell.
         Example 36 is the wireless communication method of Example 33, the NAICS
   assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
 5       Example 37 is the wireless communication method of Example 33, the power offset
   value to be comprised among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77
   dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
         Example 38 is the wireless communication method of Example 33, the RRC connection
   control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
10 RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
         Example 39 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device,
   cause the computing device to perform a wireless communication method according to any of
   Examples 33 to 38.
15       Example 40 is an apparatus, comprising means for performing a wireless
   communication method according to any of Examples 33 to 38.
         Example 41 is a system, comprising: an apparatus according to Example 40; one or
   more radio frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
         Example 42 is the system of Example 41, comprising a touchscreen display.
20       Example 43 is an evolved node B (eNB), comprising: means for selecting a first power
   offset value comprising a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)
   modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a
   physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB; means for selecting
   a second power offset value comprising a power offset value for a quadrature amplitude
25 modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH of the cell served by the eNB;
   and means for transmitting a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message
   containing a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field that comprises the first power offset value
   and the second power offset value.
         Example 44 is the eNB of Example 43, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to
                                                   28

   comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance
   information that identifies the first power offset value.
          Example 45 is the eNB of Example 44, the NAICS assistance information to be
   comprised in a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
 5        Example 46 is the eNB of Example 43, comprising means for selecting the first power
   offset value and the second power offset value from among a common set of values.
          Example 47 is the eNB of Example 43, comprising means for selecting the first power
   offset value from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB,
   0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
10        Example 48 is the eNB of Example 43, the RRC connection control message to
   comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or
   an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 49 is the eNB of any of Examples 43 to 48, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
15        Example 50 is the eNB of Example 49, comprising at least one memory unit.
          Example 51 is user equipment (UE), comprising: logic, at least a portion of which is in
   hardware, the logic to receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message and
   perform a radio resource configuration procedure based on a RadioResourceConfigDedicated
   field comprised in the RRC connection control message, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated
20 field to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS)
   assistance information specifying a power offset value for quadrature phase-shift keying
   (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions to
   the UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE.
          Example 52 is the UE of Example 51, the NAICS assistance information to be
25 comprised within a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 53 is the UE of Example 51, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to
   comprise information identifying a power offset value for quadrature amplitude modulation
   (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
                                                   29

         Example 54 is the UE of Example 51, the power offset value to be comprised among a
   defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3
   dB.
         Example 55 is the UE of Example 51, the RRC connection control message to comprise
 5 an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
         Example 56 is the UE of Example 51, the logic to apply one or more NACIS inter-cell
   interference mitigation algorithms based on the power offset value for QPSK-modulated C
   RNTI-based transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell of the UE.
10       Example 57 is the UE of any of Examples 51 to 56, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
         Example 58 is the UE of Example 57, comprising a touchscreen display.
         Example 59 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed by an evolved node B
15 (eNB), cause the eNB to: select a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying
   (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over
   a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB; and send a radio
   resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising network-assisted interference
   cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the selected
20 power offset value.
         Example 60 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 59, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised within a
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field of the RRC connection control message.
         Example 61 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
25 Example 59, the power offset value to comprise a value for a power offset parameter that
   determines a ratio between a PDSCH energy per resource element (EPRE) and a cell-specific
   reference signal (CRS) EPRE.
         Example 62 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 59, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause
                                                   30

   the eNB to select the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission
   over the PDSCH and a power offset value for a quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)
   modulated transmission over the PDSCH from among a common set of values.
          Example 63 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
 5 Example 59, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause
   the eNB to select the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission
   over the PDSCH from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77
   dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 64 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
10 Example 59, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
   message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 65 is an evolved node B (eNB), comprising: logic, at least a portion of which
   is in hardware, the logic to select a first power offset value comprising a power offset value
15 for a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary
   identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of
   a cell served by the eNB, select a second power offset value comprising a power offset value
   for a quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH of
   the cell served by the eNB, and send a radio resource control (RRC) connection control
20 message containing a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field that comprises the first power
   offset value and the second power offset value.
          Example 66 is the eNB of Example 65, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to
   comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance
   information that identifies the first power offset value.
25        Example 67 is the eNB of Example 66, the NAICS assistance information to be
   comprised in a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 68 is the eNB of Example 65, the logic to select the first power offset value
   and the second power offset value from among a common set of values.
          Example 69 is the eNB of Example 65, the logic to select the first power offset value
30 from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB,
                                                    31

   2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 70 is the eNB of Example 65, the RRC connection control message to
   comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or
   an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
 5        Example 71 is the eNB of any of Examples 65 to 70, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
          Example 72 is the eNB of Example 71, comprising at least one memory unit.
          Example 73 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed by user equipment (UE),
10 cause the UE to: receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message; and
   perform a radio resource configuration procedure based on a RadioResourceConfigDedicated
   field comprised in the RRC connection control message, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated
   field to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS)
   assistance information specifying a power offset value for quadrature phase-shift keying
15 (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions to
   the UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE.
          Example 74 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 73, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
20        Example 75 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 73, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise information identifying a
   power offset value for quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to
   the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
          Example 76 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
25 Example 73, the power offset value to be comprised among a defined set of values comprising
   -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 77 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 73, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
   message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
                                                   32

   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 78 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 73, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the UE, cause the
   UE to apply one or more NACIS inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms based on the
 5 power offset value for QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmissions to the UE over the
   PDSCH of the serving cell of the UE.
          Example 79 is a wireless communication method, comprising: selecting, by processing
   circuitry at an evolved node B (eNB), a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying
   (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over
10 a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB; and sending a
   radio resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising network-assisted
   interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the
   selected power offset value.
          Example 80 is the wireless communication method of Example 79, the NAICS
15 assistance information to be comprised within a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field of the
   RRC connection control message.
          Example 81 is the wireless communication method of Example 79, the power offset
   value to comprise a value for a power offset parameter that determines a ratio between a
   PDSCH energy per resource element (EPRE) and a cell-specific reference signal (CRS)
20 EPRE.
          Example 82 is the wireless communication method of Example 79, comprising selecting
   the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH
   and a power offset value for a quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated
   transmission over the PDSCH from among a common set of values.
25        Example 83 is the wireless communication method of Example 79, comprising selecting
   the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH
   from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB,
   2 dB, and 3 dB.
          Example 84 is the wireless communication method of Example 79, the RRC connection
30 control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
                                                   33

   RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 85 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device,
   cause the computing device to perform a wireless communication method according to any of
 5 Examples 79 to 84.
          Example 86 is an apparatus, comprising means for performing a wireless
   communication method according to any of Examples 79 to 84.
          Example 87 is a system, comprising: an apparatus according to Example 86; one or
   more radio frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
10        Example 88 is the system of Example 87, comprising at least one memory unit.
          Example 89 is user equipment (UE), comprising: means for receiving a radio resource
   control (RRC) connection control message comprising a RadioResourceConfigDedicated
   field, the RRC connection control message to comprise network-assisted interference
   cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies a power offset
15 value for one or more transmissions to the UE over a physical downlink shared channel
   (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE; and means for performing a radio resource
   configuration procedure in response to receipt of the RRC connection control message.
          Example 90 is the UE of Example 89, the one or more transmissions to comprise
   quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C
20 RNTI)-based transmissions.
          Example 91 is the UE of Example 90, the RRC connection control message to comprise
   information identifying a power offset value for one or more quadrature amplitude
   modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
          Example 92 is the UE of Example 89, the NAICS assistance information to be
25 comprised within a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 93 is the UE of Example 89, the power offset value to be comprised among a
   defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3
   dB.
                                                   34

         Example 94 is the UE of Example 89, the RRC connection control message to comprise
   an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
         Example 95 is the UE of any of Examples 89 to 94, comprising: one or more radio
 5 frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
         Example 96 is the UE of Example 95, comprising a touchscreen display.
         Example 97 is a wireless communication method, comprising: receiving, at user
   equipment (UE), a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message; and performing,
   by processing circuitry of the UE, a radio resource configuration procedure based on a
10 RadioResourceConfigDedicated field comprised in the RRC connection control message, the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation
   and suppression (NAICS) assistance information specifying a power offset value for
   quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C
   RNTI)-based transmissions to the UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a
15 serving cell of the UE.
         Example 98 is the wireless communication method of Example 97, the NAICS
   assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
         Example 99 is the wireless communication method of Example 97, the
20 RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise information identifying a power offset
   value for quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over
   the PDSCH of the serving cell.
         Example 100 is the wireless communication method of Example 97, the power offset
   value to be comprised among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77
25 dB, 0 dB, I dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
         Example 101 is the wireless communication method of Example 97, the RRC
   connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
   RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
         Example 102 is the wireless communication method of Example 97, comprising
                                                  35

   applying one or more NACIS inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms based on the power
   offset value for QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of
   the serving cell of the UE.
         Example 103 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
 5 comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device,
   cause the computing device to perform a wireless communication method according to any of
   Examples 97 to 102.
         Example 104 is an apparatus, comprising means for performing a wireless
   communication method according to any of Examples 97 to 102.
10       Example 105 is a system, comprising: an apparatus according to Example 104; one or
   more radio frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
         Example 106 is the system of Example 105, comprising a touchscreen display.
         Example 107 is an evolved node B (eNB), comprising: means for selecting a power
   offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network
15 temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a physical downlink shared channel
   (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB; and means for sending a radio resource control (RRC)
   connection control message comprising network-assisted interference cancellation and
   suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the selected power offset value.
         Example 108 is the eNB of Example 107, the NAICS assistance information to be
20 comprised within a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field of the RRC connection control
   message.
         Example 109 is the eNB of Example 107, the power offset value to comprise a value for
   a power offset parameter that determines a ratio between a PDSCH energy per resource
   element (EPRE) and a cell-specific reference signal (CRS) EPRE.
25       Example 110 is the eNB of Example 107, comprising means for selecting the power
   offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH and a
   power offset value for a quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission
   over the PDSCH from among a common set of values.
         Example 111 is the eNB of Example 107, comprising means for selecting the power
                                                   36

   offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI-based transmission over the PDSCH from
   among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB,
   and 3 dB.
         Example 112 is the eNB of Example 107, the RRC connection control message to
 5 comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or
   an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
         Example 113 is the eNB of any of Examples 107 to 112, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
         Example 114 is the eNB of Example 113, comprising at least one memory unit.
10       Example 115 is user equipment (UE), comprising: logic, at least a portion of which is in
   hardware, the logic to receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message
   comprising a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field and perform a radio resource
   configuration procedure in response to receipt of the RRC connection control message, the
   RRC connection control message to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and
15 suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies a power offset value for one or
   more transmissions to the UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving
   cell of the UE.
         Example 116 is the UE of Example 115, the one or more transmissions to comprise
   quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C
20 RNTI)-based transmissions.
         Example 117 is the UE of Example 116, the RRC connection control message to
   comprise information identifying a power offset value for one or more quadrature amplitude
   modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
         Example 118 is the UE of Example 115, the NAICS assistance information to be
25 comprised within a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
         Example 119 is the UE of Example 115, the power offset value to be comprised among
   a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3
   dB.
         Example 120 is the UE of Example 115, the RRC connection control message to
                                                  37

   comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or
   an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
          Example 121 is the UE of any of Examples 115 to 120, comprising: one or more radio
   frequency (RF) transceivers; and one or more RF antennas.
 5        Example 122 is the UE of Example 121, comprising a touchscreen display.
          Example 123 is at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
   comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed by an evolved node B
   (eNB), cause the eNB to: select a first power offset value comprising a power offset value for
   a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier
10 (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell
   served by the eNB; select a second power offset value comprising a power offset value for a
   quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH of the cell
   served by the eNB; and transmit a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message
   containing a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field that comprises the first power offset value
15 and the second power offset value.
          Example 124 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 123, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise network-assisted
   interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the
   first power offset value.
20        Example 125 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 124, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised in a subfield of the
   RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
          Example 126 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 123, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause
25 the eNB to select the first power offset value and the second power offset value from among a
   common set of values.
          Example 127 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 123, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause
   the eNB to select the first power offset value from among a defined set of values comprising
30 6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
                                                   38

          Example 128 is the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of
   Example 123, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
   message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message..
 5        Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough
   understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art, however,
   that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances,
   well-known operations, components, and circuits have not been described in detail so as not
   to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional
10 details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the
   embodiments.
          Some embodiments may be described using the expression "coupled" and "connected"
   along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For
   example, some embodiments may be described using the terms "connected" and/or "coupled"
15 to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each
   other. The term "coupled," however, may also mean that two or more elements are not in
   direct contact with each other, but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
          Unless specifically stated otherwise, it may be appreciated that terms such as
   "processing," "computing," "calculating," "determining," or the like, refer to the action and/or
20 processes of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic computing device, that
   manipulates and/or transforms data represented as physical quantities (e.g., electronic) within
   the computing system's registers and/or memories into other data similarly represented as
   physical quantities within the computing system's memories, registers or other such
   information storage, transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this
25 context.
          It should be noted that the methods described herein do not have to be executed in the
   order described, or in any particular order. Moreover, various activities described with
   respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in serial or parallel fashion.
          Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it should be
30 appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted
   for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all
                                                    39

    adaptations or variations of various embodiments. It is to be understood that the above
    description has been made in an illustrative fashion, and not a restrictive one. Combinations
    of the above embodiments, and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be
    apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Thus, the scope of
 5  various embodiments includes any other applications in which the above compositions,
    structures, and methods are used.
           It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37
    C.F.R.  1.72(b), requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the
    nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be
10  used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing
    Detailed Description, it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single
    embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not
    to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features
    than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
15  subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the
    following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim
    standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment. In the appended claims, the terms
    "including" and "in which" are used as the plain-English equivalents of the respective terms
    "comprising" and "wherein," respectively. Moreover, the terms "first," "second," and "third,"
20  etc. are used merely as labels, and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their
    objects.
           Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural
    features and/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in
    the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above.
25  Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of
    implementing the claims.
             This application is a divisional application from Australian Application 2015267574. The
   full disclosure of AU2015267574 is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                       40

Claims
 1. An evolved node B (eNB), comprising:
    one or more radio frequency (RF) transceivers;
    one or more RF antennas; and
    logic, at least a portion of which is in hardware, the logic to
          select a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated cell
      radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission over a physical downlink
      shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB and
          send a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message comprising network
      assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that
      identifies the selected power offset value.
2. The eNB of claim 1, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised within a
RadioResourceConfigDedicated field of the RRC connection control message.
3. The eNB of claim 1, the power offset value to comprise a value for a power offset parameter that
determines a ratio between a PDSCH energy per resource element (EPRE) and a cell-specific
reference signal (CRS) EPRE.
4. The eNB of claim 1, the logic to select the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI
based transmission over the PDSCH and a power offset value for a quadrature amplitude modulation
(QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH from among a common set of values.
5. The eNB of claim 1, the logic to select the power offset value for the QPSK-modulated C-RNTI
based transmission over the PDSCH from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB,
-3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
6. The eNB of claim 1, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration
message.
7. User equipment (UE), comprising:
    at least one radio frequency (RF) transceiver;
    at least one RF antenna; and
                                                    41

     logic, at least a portion of which is in hardware, the logic to receive a radio resource control
(RRC) connection control message comprising a RadioResourceConfigDedicated field and perform
a radio resource configuration procedure in response to receipt of the RRC connection control
message, the RRC connection control message to comprise network-assisted interference
cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies a power offset value for
one or more transmissions to the UE over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving
cell of the UE.
8. The UE of claim 7, the one or more transmissions to comprise quadrature phase-shift keying
(QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions.
9. The UE of claim 8, the RRC connection control message to comprise information identifying a
power offset value for one or more quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated
transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the serving cell.
10. The UE of claim 7, the NAICS assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the
RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
11. The UE of claim 7, the power offset value to be comprised among a defined set of values
comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
12. The UE of claim 7, the RRC connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup
message, an RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration
message.
13. The UE of claim 7, comprising a touchscreen display.
14. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions
that, in response to being executed by an evolved node B (eNB), cause the eNB to:
     select a first power offset value comprising a power offset value for a quadrature phase-shift
keying (QPSK)-modulated cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmission
over a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a cell served by the eNB;
     select a second power offset value comprising a power offset value for a quadrature amplitude
modulation (QAM)-modulated transmission over the PDSCH of the cell served by the eNB; and
                                                     42

    transmit a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message containing a
RadioResourceConfigDedicated field that comprises the first power offset value and the second
power offset value.
15. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, the
RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and
suppression (NAICS) assistance information that identifies the first power offset value.
16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, the NAICS
assistance information to be comprised in a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field.
17. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, comprising
instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause the eNB to select the first power
offset value and the second power offset value from among a common set of values.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, comprising
instructions that, in response to being executed by the eNB, cause the eNB to select the first power
offset value from among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0 dB, 1
dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, the RRC
connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
20. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions
that, in response to being executed by user equipment (UE), cause the UE to:
    receive a radio resource control (RRC) connection control message; and
    perform a radio resource configuration procedure based on a RadioResourceConfigDedicated
field comprised in the RRC connection control message, the RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to
comprise network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS) assistance
information specifying a power offset value for quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)-modulated
cell radio network temporary identifier (C-RNTI)-based transmissions to the UE over a physical
downlink shared channel (PDSCH) of a serving cell of the UE.
                                                   43

21. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, the NAICS
assistance information to be comprised within a subfield of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated
field.
22. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, the
RadioResourceConfigDedicated field to comprise information identifying a power offset value for
quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)-modulated transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH of the
serving cell.
23. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, the power offset
value to be comprised among a defined set of values comprising -6 dB, -4.77 dB, -3 dB, -1.77 dB, 0
dB, 1 dB, 2 dB, and 3 dB.
24. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, the RRC
connection control message to comprise an RRCConnectionSetup message, an
RRCConnectionReestablishment message, or an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
25. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, comprising
instructions that, in response to being executed by the UE, cause the UE to apply one or more
NACIS inter-cell interference mitigation algorithms based on the power offset value for QPSK
modulated C-RNTI-based transmissions to the UE over the PDSCH ofthe serving cell of the UE.
                                                   44

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
