ABSTRACT
Apparatuses, systems, method, reagents and kits for conducting assays as well as process
for their preparation are described. They are particularly well suited for conducting
automated analysis in a multi-well plate assay format. A method is provided for focusing
an optical sensor to a spaced apart platform comprising the steps of: providing at least a
higher, middle and lower patterns surface, wherein the middle patterned surface and the
platform are aligned to each other and wherein a first distance between the higher and
middle patterned surfaces and a second distance between the middle surface and lower
patterned surface are substantially equal; obtaining a first difference in contract values
between the higher and middle patterned surfaces with the optical sensor; obtaining a
second difference in contrast values between the middle and lower patterned surfaces
with the optical sensor; and comparing the first and second differences in contrast values.
                                             50

        IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE
                       AS THE RECEIVING OFFICE
TITLE:     ASSAY APPARATUSES, METHODS AND REAGENTS
INVENTORS:           Ian Chamberlin
                     Charles M. Clinton
                     Eli N. Glezer
                     Bandele Jeffrey-Coker
                     Manish Kochar
                     Sandor Kovacs
                     D.T. Le
                     Aaron Leimkueler
                     George Sigal
                     Leo Tabakin
                     Jon Willoughby

                  ASSAY APPARATUSES, METHODS AND REAGENTS
                  CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0011   The present patent application claims priority to U.S. provisional application No.
61/749,097 entitled "Assay Apparatus, Methods and Reagents" filed on 4 January 2013. The
disclosure of this parent application is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Reference is
also made to U.S. Application Publication Nos. 2011/0143947, 2012/0195800,
2007/0231217, 2009/0263904, and 2011/025663. The disclosures of each of these
applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[002]    The invention relates to apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and kits for
conducting assays. Certain embodiments of the apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and
kits of the invention may be used for conducting automated sampling, sample preparation,
and/or sample analysis in a multi-well plate assay format.
                           BACKGROUND OF TIE INVENTION
[003]    Numerous methods and systems have been developed for conducting chemical,
biochemical, and/or biological assays. These methods and systems are essential in a variety
of applications including medical diagnostics, food and beverage testing, environmental
monitoring, manufacturing quality control, drug discovery, and basic scientific research.
 [004] Multi-well assay plates (also known as microtiter plates or microplates) have become
a standard format for processing and analysis of multiple samples. Multi-well assay plates
can take a variety of forms, sizes, and shapes. For convenience, some standards have
appeared for instrumentation used to process samples for high-throughput assays. Multi-well
assay plates typically are made in standard sizes and shapes, and have standard arrangements
of wells. Arrangements of wells include those found in 96-well plates (12 x 8 array of wells),
384-well plates (24 x16 array of wells), and 1536-well plates (48 x 32 array of wells). The
Society for Biomolecular Screening has published recommended microplate specifications
for a variety of plate formats (see http://www.sbsonline.org).

[005] A variety of plate readers are available for conducting assay measurements in multi
well plates including readers that measure changes in optical absorbance, emission of
luminescence (e.g., fluorescence, phosphorescence, chemiluminescence, and
electrochemiluminescence), emission of radiation, changes in light scattering, and changes in
a magnetic field. U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0022677 and U.S. Patent No.
7,842,246, respectively, of Wohlstadter et al. describe solutions that are useful for carrying
out singleplex and multiplex ECL assays in a multi-well plate format. They include plates
that comprise a plate top with through-holes that form the walls of the wells and a plate
bottom that is sealed against the plate top to form the bottom of the wells. The plate bottom
has patterned conductive layers that provide the wells with electrode surfaces that act as both
solid phase supports for binding reactions as well as electrodes for inducing
electrochemiluminescence (ECL). The conductive layers may also include electrical contacts
for applying electrical energy to the electrode surfaces.
[006] Despite such known methods and systems for conducting assays, improved
apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and kits for conducting automated sampling, sample
preparation, and/or sample analysis in a multi-well plate assay format are needed.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[007] Accordingly, the invention provides a method for focusing an optical sensor to a
spaced apart platform comprising the steps of: (a) providing at least a higher, middle and
lower patterned surface, wherein the middle patterned surface and the platform are aligned to
each other and wherein a first distance between the higher and middle patterned surfaces and
a second distance between the middle surface and lower patterned surface are substantially
equal; (b) obtaining a first difference in contrast values between the higher and middle
patterned surfaces with the optical sensor; (c) obtaining a second difference in contrast
values between the middle and lower patterned surfaces with the optical sensor; and (d)
comparing the first and second differences in contrast values.
[008]    The invention further provides a focusing mechanism for an optical sensor comprising
at least a higher, middle and lower patterned surface spaced apart from the optical sensor;
wherein the middle patterned surface is aligned to a target surface to be focused by the optical
sensor and the middle patterned surface, wherein a first distance between the higher and
middle patterned surfaces and a second distance between the middle surface and lower
patterned surface are substantially equal, wherein the optical sensor and the patterned
                                                 3

surfaces are moved relative to each other until a difference between a first and a second
differences in contrast values between the higher and middle patterned surfaces and between
the middle and lower patterned surfaces is less than a predetermined value; and wherein an
illuminating source is positioned to project light through the higher, middle and lowered
patterned surfaces toward the optical sensor.
 [009] The invention contemplates an instrument comprising: (a) a contact platform,
wherein the contact platform comprises a plurality of interrogation zones and each
interrogation zone comprises at least a pair of electrical contacts to apply a voltage potential
to the interrogation zone, (b)a controller operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein
the voltage source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and (c) a
multiplexer connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively connecting
the voltage source to the pair of electrical contacts of a single interrogation zone or
connecting the voltage source to the pairs of electrical contacts of more than one interrogation
zones.
[0010] The instrument of the invention also includes: (a) a contact platform, wherein the
platform comprises a plurality of interrogation zones and each interrogation zone comprises
at least a pair of electrical contacts to conduct a voltage potential to the interrogation zone,
(b) a controller operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein the voltage source is
connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and (c) a means connected to the
controller and the voltage source for switching from a first connection between the voltage
source and the electrical contacts of a single interrogation zone to a second connection
between the voltage source and the electrical contacts of one or more interrogation zones.
 [0011] The instrument is preferably adapted to interrogate samples contained in a multi-well
plate, and comprises: (a) a carriage frame configured to support the multi-well plate and the
carriage frame is movable relative to a contact platform, wherein the multi-well plate
comprises a plurality of wells, wherein the wells are arranged in a M x N matrix, and
wherein the contact platform comprises a plurality of interrogation zones, wherein each
interrogation zone comprises at least a pair of electrical contacts to conduct a voltage
potential to at least one well; (b) a controller operatively connected to a motor to move the
carriage frame relative to the contact platform and operatively connected to a voltage source,
wherein the voltage source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts; and (c) a
multiplexer connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively connecting
the voltage source to the pair of electrical contacts of a single interrogation zone or
                                                 4

connecting the voltage source to at least one pair of electrical contacts of more than one
interrogation zones.
[0012] Another embodiment of the invention is a method for interrogating samples contained
in a multi-well plate having a M x N matrix of wells comprising the steps of (a) providing a
contact platform having a plurality of interrogation zones, (b) providing at least a pair of
electrical contacts for each interrogation zone, wherein each interrogation zone is adapted to
interrogate a single well, (c) selectively applying a voltage potential to: (i) one interrogation
zone to interrogate one or more wells simultaneously or (ii) a plurality of interrogation zones
to interrogate a plurality of wells, and (d) moving the multi-well plate relative to the platform
to interrogate additional wells.
[0013] In a specific embodiment, the invention includes an instrument for conducting
luminescence assays in a multi-well plate. The instrument comprises a light detection
subsystem and a plate handling subsystem, wherein the plate handling subsystem comprises:
         (a)    a light-tight enclosure comprising a housing and a removable drawer, wherein
                (x) the housing comprises a housing top, a housing front, one or more plate
                     introduction apertures, a detection aperture, a sliding light-tight door for
                     sealing the plate introduction apertures, and a plurality of alignment
                     features, wherein the housing is adapted to receive the removable drawer,
                     and
                (y) the removable drawer comprises:
                      (i) an x-y subframe including plurality of companion alignment features
                          configured to mate and engage with the plurality of alignment features
                          to align the removable drawer within the housing relative to the light
                          detection subsystem, wherein a weight of the removable drawer is
                          supported by the housing top;
                     (ii) one or more plate elevators with a plate lifting platform that can be
                          raised and lowered, wherein the one or more plate elevators are
                          positioned below the plate introduction apertures;
                     (iii) a plate translation stage for translating a plate in one or more
                          horizontal directions, wherein the stage comprises a plate carriage for
                          supporting the plate, the plate carriage has an opening to allow the
                          plate elevators positioned below the plate carriage to access and lift the
                          plate, and the plate translation stage is configured to position plates
                                                   5

                         below the detection aperture and to position the plates above the plate
                         elevators; and
         (b)     one or more plate stackers mounted on the housing top, above the plate
                 introduction apertures, wherein the plate stackers are configured to receive or
                 deliver plates to the plate elevators; and
                 wherein the light detection subsystem comprises a light detector mounted on
         the enclosure top and coupled to the detection aperture with a light-tight seal.
[0014] The instrument can be used to conduct luminescence assays in a multi-well plate, and
comprises a plate handling subsystem including a plate carriage for supporting the multi-well
plate, wherein the plate carriage comprises a frame and a plate latching mechanism. The
plate latching mechanism comprises:
         (a)     a plate carriage ledge;
         (b)     a plate clamp arm perpendicular to the ledge and comprising a proximate and
a distal end relative to the ledge, wherein the arm is attached to the frame at the proximate
end and the arm is rotatable in an x-y plane at the distal end, and the arm further comprises an
upper clamp including an angled surface configured to engage with the plate;
         (c)     a plate positioning element comprising a rod, a pedal and a spring, wherein the
rod is substantially perpendicular to the arm, substantially parallel to the ledge, and attached
to the distal end of the arm via the spring, and the pedal is attached to the rod at an angle; and
         (d)     a plate wall substantially parallel to the arm and substantially perpendicular to
and disposed between the positioning element and the ledge, the wall comprising (i) a lower
plate clamp configured to engage with a multi-well plate skirt, and (ii) a lower plate clamp
ramp configured to drive the lower plate clamp toward the skirt.
[0015] The present invention is further directed to a method of engaging a multi-well plate in
the instrument immediately discussed above. The method comprises the following steps:
         (a)     placing the plate on the frame;
         (b)     compressing the spring of the plate positioning element, thereby pushing the
pedal against the plate toward the ledge and rotating the arm in the x-y plane toward the
plate;
         (c)     contacting the upper clamp with the plate, thereby pushing the plate toward
the carriage wall;
         (d)     contacting the lower plate clamp with the skirt, thereby locking the plate
within the carriage.
                                                  6

 [00161 Moreover, the invention provides an instrument for conducting luminescence assays
in a multi-well plate, and comprises a plate handling subsystem including a plate carriage for
supporting the multi-well plate, and a plate latching mechanism,
        wherein the multi-well plate has at least a first, second, third and fourth side and
wherein the first and third sides are substantially parallel to each other and the second and
fourth sides are substantially parallel to each other,
        wherein the plate carriage defines an aperture having a shape substantially the same as
the multi-well plate and having dimensions smaller than the multi-well plate to support a
ledge positioned around a perimeter of the multi-well plate, wherein the plate carriage further
comprises a first (501) and second (513) stop corresponding to the first and second sides of
the multi-well plate, respectively.
        wherein the plate latching mechanism is movable from an open configuration to
accept one multi-well plate to a clamping configuration to latch the multi-well plate to the
plate carriage,
        wherein the plate latching mechanism comprises a first latching member (509) biased
to the clamping position and having a pedal (511) adapted to push the first side of the multi
well plate toward the first stop and a plate clamp arm (502) biased to the clamping position
and having a bracket (503) pivotally connected to the plate clamp arm (502) and is adapted to
push the second side toward the second stop (513), wherein the first latching mechanism
(509) is connected to the plate clamp an (502), and
        wherein the plate latching mechanism comprises at least one biased clamp (515)
positioned proximate to second stop (513) to clamp to the skirt of the multi-well tray to the
plate carriage.
[00171 Still further, the invention provides a system comprising
        (i)     a multi-well assay plate selected from the group consisting of a single-well
addressable plate or a multi-well addressable plate; and
        (ii)    an apparatus configured to measure electrochemiluminescence (ECL) from a
single well of the single-well addressable plate and from a grouping of wells of the multi-well
addressable plate.
[0018] The present invention further includes an apparatus for measuring luminescence from
a multi-well plate of a plate type selected from the group consisting of a single well
addressable plate or a multi-well addressable plate, the apparatus comprising:
                                                7

        (i)     a plate type identification interface for identifying the plate type;
        (ii)    a plate translation stage for holding and translating the multi-well plate in the
x-y plane;
        (iii)   a plate contact mechanism comprising a plurality of contact probes and
positioned below the plate translation stage and within the range of motion of the stage,
wherein the mechanism is mounted on a contact mechanism elevator that can raise and lower
the mechanism to bring the probes into and out of contact with a bottom contact surface the
plate when positioned on the translation stage;
        (iv)    a voltage source for applying potential through the contact probes to the plate;
and
        (v)     an imaging system positioned above the plate translation stage and in vertical
alignment with the plate contact mechanism, wherein
        (a)      the imaging system is configured to image a P x     Q matrix of wells,  the plate
contact mechanism is configured to contact the bottom contact surface associated with the
matrix and the plate translation stage is configured to translate a plate to position the matrix
in alignment with the imaging system and plate contact mechanism;
        (b)     the apparatus is configured to sequentially apply a voltage to each well in the
matrix of a single well addressable plate and image the matrix; and
        (c)     the apparatus is configured to simultaneously apply a voltage to each well in
the matrix of a multi-well addressable plate and image the matrix.
 [00191 Also provided is a method for measuring luminescence from a single-well addressable
plate or a multi-well addressable plate, wherein the method comprises:
        (a)     loading a plate on the plate translation stage;
        (b)     identifying the plate as being a single well or multi-well addressable plate;
        (c)     moving the plate translation stage to align a first P x  Q matrix of wells with
the plate contact mechanism and imaging system;
         (d)    raising the plate contact mechanism so that the contact probes on the contact
mechanism contact the bottom contact surface associated with the P x       Q matrix   of wells;
        (e)     generating and imaging luminescence in the P x      Q matrix by sequentially
applying voltage to each well in the group while the group is imaged, if the plate is a single
well addressable plate;
                                                 8

         (f)      generating and imaging luminescence in the P x     Q matrix by simultaneously
applying voltage to each well in the matrix while the matrix is imaged, if the plate is a multi
well addressable plate; and
         (g)     repeating steps (c) through (f) for additional P x  Q matrices  in the plate.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0020] Figs. 1(a)-(b) show a front and rear view, respectively, of apparatus 100 with a
stylized cover and Figs. 1(c)-(d) show the corresponding front and rear views, respectively, of
the apparatus without the cover.
 [0021] Figs. 2(a)-(c) show detailed views of the plate handling subsystem and light detection
subsystem.
 [0022] Fig. 3 shows a view of the removable drawer of the plate handling subsystem within
apparatus 100.
[0023] Figs. 4(a)-(f) show various detailed views of the removable drawer 240 and the
subcomponents positioned within the drawer.
 [0024] Figs. 5(a)-(o) show detailed views of the plate carriage and plate latching mechanism.
 [0025] Figs. 6(a)-(b) show two alternative embodiments of an optical focusing mechanism
that can be incorporated into the apparatus.
 [00261 Figs. 7(a)-(l) show detailed views of the plate contact mechanism.
 [0027] Figs. 8(a)-(c) show various components of the light detection subsystem.
 [0028] Fig. 9 shows one non-limiting embodiment of a lens configuration that can be used in
the light detection subsystem.
         DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
 [0029] The Detailed Description section provides descriptions of certain embodiments of the
invention that should not be considered limiting but are intended to illustrate certain inventive
 aspects. Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in connection
 with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of
 ordinary skill in the art. Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall
 include pluralities and plural terms shall include the singular. The articles "a" and "an" are
 used herein to refer to one or to more than one (i.e., to at least one) of the grammatical object
 of the article. By way of example, "an element" means one element or more than one
 element. Furthermore, a claim which recites "comprising" allows the inclusion of other
 elements to be within the scope of the claim; the invention is also described by such claims
                                                  9

reciting the transitional phrases "consisting essentially of' (i.e., allowing the inclusion of
other elements to be within the scope of the claim if they do not materially affect operation of
the invention) or "consisting of' (i.e., allowing only the elements listed in the claim other
than ancillary elements or inconsequential activities which are ordinarily associated with the
invention) instead of the "comprising" term. Any of these three transitions can be used to
claim the invention.
 [0030] Described herein is an apparatus for conducting assays in a multi-well plate format
that have one or more of the following desirable attributes: (i) high sensitivity, (ii) large
dynamic range, (iii) small size and weight, (iv) array-based multiplexing capability, (v)
automated operation; and (vi) ability to handle multiple plates. We also describe components
and subsystems used in such an apparatus and methods of using the apparatus and
subsystems. The apparatus and methods may be used with a variety of assay detection
techniques including, but not limited to, techniques measuring one or more detectable signals.
 Some of them are suitable for electrochemiluminescence measurements and, in particular,
embodiments that are suitable for use with multi-well plates with integrated electrodes (and
assay methods using these plates) such as those described in U.S. Publication 2004/0022677
 and U.S. Patent No. 7,842,246, respectively, of Wohlstadter et al., and U.S. Application
 11/642,970 of Glezer et al.
 [0031] In a preferred embodiment, an apparatus is provided for conducting luminescence
 assays in multi-well plates. One embodiment comprises a light detection subsystem and a
plate handling subsystem, wherein the plate handling subsystem includes a light-tight
 enclosure that provides a light-free environment in which luminescence measurements can be
 carried out. The enclosure includes a housing and a removable drawer that is placed within
 the housing. The housing also includes a housing top having one or more plate introduction
 apertures through which plates can be lowered onto or removed from a plate translation stage
 (manually or mechanically) within the drawer. A sliding light-tight door in the housing is
 used to seal the plate introduction apertures from environmental light prior to carrying out
 luminescence measurements. The housing further includes a detection aperture that is
 coupled to a light detector mounted on the housing top and one or more plate stackers
 mounted on the housing top above the plate introduction apertures, wherein the plate stackers
 are configured to receive or deliver plates to plate elevators within the removable drawer.
 The removable drawer includes a plate translation stage for translating a plate horizontally in
 the drawer to zones within the apparatus where specific assay processing and/or detection
                                                10

steps are carried out. The removable drawer also includes one or more plate elevators with a
plate lifting platform that can be raised and lowered within the drawer, wherein the plate
elevators are positioned below the one or more plate introduction apertures. The plate
translation stage is configured to position plates below the detection aperture and to position
plates above the plate elevators on the plate lifting platforms.
[00321 The apparatus also includes a light detector which is mounted to the detection
aperture on the housing top (e.g., via a light-tight connector or baffle). In certain
embodiments, the light detector is an imaging light detector such as a CCD camera and may
also include a lens. The light detector may be a conventional light detector such as a
photodiode, avalanche photodiode, photomultiplier tube, or the like. Suitable light detectors
also include arrays of such light detectors. Light detectors that may be used also include
imaging systems such as CCD and CMOS cameras. The light detectors may also include
lens, light guides, etc. for directing, focusing and/or imaging light on the detectors. In certain
specific embodiments, an imaging system is used to image luminescence from arrays of
binding domains in one or more wells of an assay plate and the assay apparatus reports
luminescence values for luminescence emitted from individual elements of the arrays. The
light detector is mounted on the housing top with a light-tight seal. Additional components of
the apparatus include plate contacts for making electrical contact to the plates and providing
electrical energy to electrodes in wells positioned under the light detector (e.g., for inducing
ECL).
 [0033] Specific embodiments of the apparatus of the invention are illustrated in the Figures.
Figs. 1(a)-(b) show a front and rear view, respectively, of apparatus 100 with a stylized cover,
and Figs. 1(c)-(d) show the corresponding front and rear views, respectively, of the apparatus
without the cover. As shown, e.g., in Fig. 1(c), the apparatus includes a light detection
subsystem 110 and a plate handling subsystem 120. A more detailed view is provided in
Figs. 2(a)-(b). The plate handling subsystem 120 includes a light tight enclosure 130
comprising a housing 231 having a housing top 232, bottom 233, front 234, and rear 235,
The housing also includes a plurality of alignment features and the housing is adapted to
receive a removable drawer 240 comprising a removable drawer front and consisting of a
unitary casting element. The walls of the removable drawer define a rigid x-y subframe, 415
 in Fig. 4(d), including a plurality of companion alignment features. When the drawer is
properly placed within the housing, the alignment and companion alignment features mate
 and engage, thereby aligning the drawer and its components with the components of the light
                                                 11

detection subsystem. When the alignment/companion alignment features are engaged, the
weight of the removable drawer is supported by the housing top. The removable drawer 240
in the apparatus 100 depicted in Figs. 1(a)-(b) is best shown in Fig. 3, being in the partially
opened or closed position. Removable drawer 240 is also illustrated in Figure 4(a) carrying
various internal subsystems described in detail below and in Figure 4(b) being installed
within housing 231, where housing rear 235 and a housing side are omitted for clarity.
Figure 4(c) shows housing 231 with an opening and alignment features 405, 406, and 407
positioned and dimensioned to receive removable drawer 240.
[0034] In one embodiment, the plate handling subsystem further comprises a plate sensor
configured to detect a plate in the subsystem. Suitable plate sensors include, but are not
limited to a capacitive sensor, contact switch, ultrasonic sensor, weight sensor, or an optical
sensor, or a combination thereof
[0035] Referring to Fig. 2(a), the housing top 232 also includes one or more plate
introduction (and ejection) apertures, 236 and 237, respectively, through which plates are
lowered onto or removed from the plate translation stage (manually or mechanically). A
sliding light-tight door (shown in Fig. 2(c) as 239) is used to seal the plate introduction
apertures.236, 237 from environmental light prior to carrying out luminescence
measurements. Moreover, the housing top also includes an identifier controller to read and
process data stored to an identifier on the plates. In one embodiment, the identifier controller
is a bar code reader (238) mounted via a light-tight seal over an aperture in the housing top,
where the bar code reader is configured to read bar codes on plates placed on the plate
translation stage within the housing. In a preferred embodiment, the bar code on a plate is
read once the plate has been lowered into the drawer. In an alternative or additional
embodiment, the plates comprise an EEPROM or an RFID and the housing top and/or drawer
includes an identifier controller suitable for communicating with each of these identifiers. In
a further additional embodiment, an identifier controller can be provided separately from the
apparatus. In this embodiment, information stored to an identifier attached to a plate or
associated with a plate or a set of plates is transferred to the apparatus via a computer and/or
network attached thereto and/or manually input via a user interface of the computer and/or
network. In this regard, reference is made to U.S. Application Serial Nos. 12/844,345 and
 13/191,000, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 [0036] The plate handling subsystem further includes one or more plate stackers mounted on
the housing top 232 above the plate introduction apertures 236, 237, wherein the plate
                                                 12

stackers are configured to receive or deliver plates to the plate elevators, The plate handling
subsystem optionally includes a heating and/or cooling mechanism (e.g., a resistance heater, a
fan, heat sinks, or a thermoelectric heater/cooler) to maintain temperature of the subsystem
under desired conditions. It may also include a humidity control mechanism (e.g., a
humidifier and/or dehumidifier, or a desiccant chamber to maintain the humidity of the
subsystem under desired conditions.
[0037] A detailed view of the removable drawer of the plate handling subsystem is shown in
Fig. 4. Referring to Fig. 4(a), the drawer includes (i) a plate elevator mechanism 400 with
plate lifting platforms, 401 and 402, that can be raised and lowered; and (ii) a plate translation
stage 403 for translating a plate in one or more horizontal directions, wherein the stage
includes a plate carriage 404 for supporting the plate. The plate carriage 404 preferably has
an opening 420 to allow the plate elevators 400 positioned below the plate carriage 404 to
access and lift a plate, and the plate translation stage 403 is configured to position plates
below the detection aperture on housing top 232 and below the light detectors within the light
detection system 110, and to position the plates above the plate elevators 400. The plate
lifting platforms 401, 402 of the plate elevator 400 preferably comprises a non-skid surface to
prevent shifting of the plate on the plate lifting platform during movement in the apparatus.
The plate translation stage 403 has horizontal motions, e.g., motions on a substantially
horizontal plane or in an X-direction and Y-direction for translating a plate horizontally in the
drawer to one or more regions within the apparatus where specific assay processing and/or
detection steps are carried out. In one non-limiting example, as illustrated in Figure 4(e),
plate translation stage 403 is movable in one horizontal direction along rail 422, and plate
carriage 404 is movable on rail 424 on plate translation stage 403 in an orthogonal horizontal
direction. In a preferred embodiment, the plate translation stage has two axes of motion, x
and y, and motors coupled to the axes of motion allow for automated movement of plates on
the stage.
 [0038] The inclusion of a removable drawer 240 in the light-tight enclosure 130 enhances the
 serviceability and manufacturability of the apparatus. In order to ensure proper alignment of
the drawer 240 within the housing 231 and therefore, proper alignment of the subsystems
within the drawer 240 with the light detection subsystem 110, the housing includes a plurality
 of alignment features and the x-y subframe of the drawer includes a plurality of companion
 alignment features configured to mate and engage with the alignment features of the housing.
 A cut-away view of the drawer 240 placed within the housing 231 with housing rear 235 and
                                                 13

a housing side omitted for clarity and properly aligned with the light detection subsystem 110
is shown in Fig. 4(b).
[0039] In a preferred embodiment, the alignment features of drawer 240 comprise a plurality
of holes and the corresponding alignment features on housing 231 comprise a plurality of
pins sized to fit within the holes. As shown in Fig. 4(c), the housing 231 preferably includes
at least three alignment pins, pins 405 and 406 being positioned on the housing front 234, and
pin 407, which is positioned on the opposite end of the housing. Additional alignment
features can be included in the housing and drawer, as necessary. Preferably, the alignment
features are positioned or calibrated relative to the housing top, such that the weight of the
drawer 240 is supported by the housing top 232. The companion alignment features on the
drawer that are configured to mate and engage with alignment pins 405, 406, and 407, are
shown in Fig. 4(d) as holes 408, 409, 410 (in the embodiment shown in Fig. 4(d), alignment
pin 405 mates and engages with hole 408, pin 406 mates and engages with hole 409, and pin
407 mates and engages with hole 410). In addition, the drawer also includes alignment
latches, 416 and 417 (shown in Fig. 4(a)) that mate and engage with companion alignment
catches, 418 and 419 (Fig. 4(c)), to lock/unlock the drawer within the housing.
[0040] Due to the alignment features 405-407 and 408-410 being positioned or calibrated to
housing top 232, while removable drawer 240 is inserted into housing 231 guided by X-Y
frame 415, after removable drawer 240 is fully inserted into housing 231, the weight of
drawer 240 and components thereon are supported by housing top 232. An advantage of this
feature is that since light detection system 110 is also mounted on housing top 232 any
calibration or alignment of the subsystems on drawer 240 to light detection system 110 can
be carried out directly relative to the light detection system 110, without having to taking into
account any gap or spacing between drawer 240 and housing top 232.
[0041] One or more additional engagement/locking features can be included in the housing
and/or drawer, for example, as shown in Fig. 4(e), in which spring loaded pin 411 is mounted
to the drawer 240 and configured to mate and engage with a hole 412 positioned in the plate
carriage 403. In one embodiment, a solenoid is used to actuate a spring loaded pin, such as
pin 411. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 4(f), when the plate carriage and plate translation
stage are aligned, the alignment feature in the plate translation stage, pin 411, mates and
engages with a corresponding locking feature in the plate carriage, element 412, as shown in
Fig. 4(f). These alignment and/or engagement features lock the plate carriage in place to
protect the subassembly from damage, e.g., during shipping and/or installation.
                                                 14

[0042] In a further preferred embodiment, as shown in Figs. 4(c)-(d), the housing top
comprises an electrical connection contact mechanism 413, and the drawer front comprises a
companion electrical connection, element 414, wherein the electrical connection and its
companion are configured to mate and engage with one another upon proper insertion and
alignment of the drawer within the housing.
[0043] Referring to Fig. 4(a), in a preferred embodiment, the plate carriage comprises a
carriage platform 404 and a plate latching mechanism configured to receive and engage an
exemplary plate hereinafter labeled as 426 placed on the carriage platform 404, as shown in
Fig. 5(a)-(b) (Fig. 5(a) shows a view of the plate carriage with a plate 426 locked in place and
Fig. 5(b) shows the same view with the components of the plate latching mechanism visible
and engaged with the plate in a locked position). As shown in Fig. 5(b), the outside edges of
the plate follow a standard design convention for multi-well plates and include a skirt 522
that surrounds and is at a height lower than the walls of the plate (an enlarged view is shown
in Fig. 5(o)). In other words, skirt 522 is positioned proximate the bottom of plate 426. The
plate latching mechanism is designed to push the outside edge of the skirt on two orthogonal
sides of the plate against two corresponding physical stops in the plate carriage, to provide a
defined and reproducible positioning of the plate in the carriage. The plate latching
mechanism is also designed to apply a downward physical force in defined locations on the
top of the plate skirt to reproducibly and fixedly hold the plate in the vertical dimension.
 [0044] A view of the plate carriage 404 and plate latching mechanism with a plate 420 is
shown in Fig. 5(a)-(b). A sequence illustrating the operations of the plate latching
mechanism is shown in Figures 5(c)-5(f) and discussed below. In a specific embodiment, the
plate carriage 404 supports a multi-well plate 426 (or a consumable having the same footprint
and external physical geometry as a niulti-well/microtitre plate configured for use in an
apparatus as described herein) having at least a first, second, third and fourth side and
wherein the first and third sides are substantially parallel to each other and the second and
fourth sides are substantially parallel to each other. The plate carriage 404 defines an
aperture 420 having a shape substantially the same as the multi-well plate 426 and having
dimensions smaller than the multi-well plate to support a skirt or ledge 522 positioned around
a perimeter of the multi-well plate 426. The plate carriage further comprises a first (501) and
second (513) stop surface that when the plate 426 is fully latched, define the horizontal
positions of the skirt 522 on first and second sides of the multi-well plate, respectively. The
plate latching mechanism is movable from an open configuration, as best shown in Figures
                                                15

5(i) and 5(j) to accept a plate 426 to a clamping configuration to latch the plate to the plate
carriage, as best shown in Figures 5(a) and 5(b).
[0045] The plate latching mechanism comprises (i) a first latching member (509) biased to
the clamping position and consisting of a pedal 511, an actuating rod 510, and a spring 512,
which provides the biasing force and preferably has a high spring force. The pedal (511) is
adapted to push the first side of the multi-well plate 426 toward the first stop 501 and a plate
clamp arm (502) also biased to the clamping position by spring 512, wherein the first latching
mechanism (509) is connected to the plate clamp arm (502). The plate latching mechanism
further includes (ii) a bracket (503) pivotally connected to the plate clamp arm (502) and
adapted to push the second side of plate 426 toward the second stop (513). The plate latching
mechanism also comprises (iii) at least one biased clamp (515) positioned proximate to
second stop (513) to clamp to the skirt 522 of the multi-well plate 426 to the plate carriage
404, thereby preventing vertical motion. Clamp 515 engages with the plate skirt and applies
a downward force on the skirt of the plate. The bracket (503) preferably comprises at least
two legs (504, 506) and both are in contact with the fourth side of the multi-well plate. At
least one leg (504, 506) comprises a ramp (507, 508) to apply both sideways force towards
the second stop and downward force on the skirt of the multi-well plate (as shown in Figs.
5(e)-(i)).
 [0046] The first latching member 509 comprises an actuating rod (510), which is biased to
the clamping position by a spring (512) and in the clamping position extends past one edge of
the plate carriage (as shown in Fig. 5(c). During loading and unloading of plates, as the plate
carriage 404 is moved into alignment with a plate elevator, the extended portion 51 Oa of
actuating rod (510) is pushed against a physical stop in the housing, e.g., the rear wall of
drawer 240 or housing rear 235, which pushes extended portion 510a of rod (510) into the
carriage, as best shown in Figure 5(d) where rod 510 is not yet engaged and Figure 5(e)
where rod 510 is pushed. It is noted that when plate carriage 404 is moved against the
physical stop, rod 510 and both biased clamps 515 are pushed, Figures 5(d) and 5(i) only
show the retraction of rod 510 for clarity. The movement of rod (510) forces the pedal 511 to
retract toward rod 510 to make room for plate 426. As shown in Figure 5(c), pedal 511 is a
cantilever type arm that is attached to rod 510 and has the ability to flex like a spring. A
fulcrum 524 fixedly attached to plate carriage 404 forces pedal 511 to retract or move in the
direction of the arrow shown in Figure 5(d) as rod 510 is pushed inward. Fulcrum 526 can
 also be located on the sheath 526 that covers first latch member 509, as best shown in Figure
                                                16

5(a). Plate clamp arm 502 is connected preferably pivotally at one end 528 to rod 510, and
connected preferably pivotally at the opposite end 530 to plate carriage 404. Bracket 503 is
pivotally connected to plate clamp arm 502 at pivot point 531. As best shown in Figure 5(d),
as rod 510 is pushed inward pedal 511 and plate clamp arm 502 with bracket 503 are
retracted or moved away from opening 420.
[0047] An advantage of connecting bracket 503 pivotally to plate clamp arm 502 is that
bracket 503 can rotate, preferably slightly relative to plate clamp arm 502, so that both legs
504 and 506 of bracket 503 can make contact with plate 426 during the latching process.
[0048] As discussed above, when plate carriage 404 is moved against the physical stop, rod.
510 and both biased clamps 515 are pushed. As extended portions 515a of biased clamp 515
are pushed inward, this action lifts the biased end 515b upward against the force of spring
532. As biased end 515b is lifted into an open position, it is sized and dimensioned to accept
skirt 522 of plate 426, and as biased clamp 515 is released spring 532 forces biased end 515b
downward and clamp onto skirt 522 to hold tray 426 against upward motions.
[0049] The apparatus further comprises an ejector (516) to release plate 426 from the
latching mechanism. Ejector 516 has an extended actuating element (521) and like actuating
rod (510) also is pushed against a stop in the instrument as the plate carriage is placed in
alignment with the plate elevators, such that the ejector moves the multi-well plate 426 away
from the second stop 513. The ejector 516 is preferably spring-loaded by springs 514 and it
optionally includes an over-travel preventer 534. Ejector 516 when activated pushes tray 426
away from stop 513, and when ejector 516 is activated rod 510 and biased clamps 515 are
also moved to the open position, so that tray 426 can be pushed away from stop 513 and
biased claim ends 515b. Over-travel preventer 534 can elastically deform to absorb some of
the motion of ejector Movement of the carriage plate 404 away from the plate
loading/unloading position (i.e., in alignment with the plate elevators), reverses them
movement of rod (510) and ejector (516) and resets the latching mechanism into the latched
configuration.
 [0050] Engagement of a multi-well plate 426 with the plate latching mechanism to lock the
plate 426 in the plate carriage 404 is illustrated in Figs. 5(i)-(m). Figure 5(i) is similar to
Figure 5(d) showing the first latch member 509 with pedal 511 retracted and arm 502/bracket
503 in the open position. The latching mechanism remains unengaged and in the open
position in Fig. 5(j), allowing a multi-well plate 426 to be placed over opening 420 within the
plate carriage 404. In the open configuration depicted in Fig. 5(j), pedal 511, clamp arm 502,
                                                 17

bracket 503 and biased clamp 515 are biased away from opening 420 to allow a plate 426 to
be loaded into the plate carriage 404. As shown in Figure 5(j), extended portions 510a and
515a are all pushed inward by motion of plate carriage 404 against a back stop such as the
back side of drawer 240 or housing rear 235.
[0051] When a plate 426 is placed into the plate carriage 404 as shown in Fig. 5(k) and plate
carriage 404 moves away from the back stop, pedal 511 moving away from fulcrum 524 and
outward to push and bias tray 426 against first stop 501. Plate clamp arm 502 also moves
with rod 510, allowing bracket 503 to push tray 426 against second stop 513. As shown in
Figure 5(k), only leg 504 is contacting tray 426; however, due to the pivoting connection at
pivot point 531, second leg 506 would automatically and quickly contact tray 426 as bracket
503 rotates about pivot 531. Biased clamp 515, which is preferably spring loaded by springs
532, engages the plate skirt 522 of the multi-well plate 426 on the second side of the plate as
shown in Fig. 5(1), bracket 503 also engages with and pushes down on the plate skirt 522. As
discussed above, legs 504 and 506 of bracket 503 has ramp 507, 508 and angled as shown.
As legs 504 and 506 pushes tray 426, ramp 507, 508 contact skirt 522 and pushes tray 426 in
two directions: toward second stop 513 and downward. As shown in Fig. 5(m), biased clamp
515, engages with plate skirt 522.
[0052] In a preferred embodiment the plate carriage 404 also includes an optical focusing
mechanism used by an optical sensor in the apparatus, such as the light detectors within light
detection system 110 described above to measure contrast and focus. The optical focusing
mechanism includes at least two, or preferably at least three, patterned surfaces at different
heights relative to the plate carriage and, consequently, to a target surface for focusing (i.e.,
the bottom of the wells of a 96-well plate 426 held in the plate carriage 404). The invention
includes a method for imaging the plurality of surfaces and, based on the image, calculating
the magnitude and direction of the image adjustment needed to bring the target surface into
focus. In one embodiment, contrast values are calculated for the image of each surface and
the focus height is determined as the height at which the change in contrast with change in
height is minimized or, alternatively, falls below a predetermined threshold value.
[0053] In one embodiment, the plate carriage includes at least three patterned surfaces each at
differing heights relative to the plate carriage. Two alternative embodiments of an optical
focusing mechanism are shown in Fig. 6(a)-(b). In certain preferred embodiments the
surfaces have patterns of differential transparency (e.g., patterns etched or cut into a non
transparent substrate or a patterned non-transparent ink or film printed on a transparent
                                                 18

surface) so that the pattern can be imaged using light transmitted through the substrate. In
alternative embodiments, the surfaces/patterns are not transparent and the patterns are imaged
using a light source that reflects light off the surface.
[0054] The focusing mechanism includes at least a higher, middle and lower patterned
surface spaced apart from the optical sensor, wherein the middle patterned surface and the
target surface are aligned to substantially the same planar level, wherein a first distance
between the higher and middle patterned surfaces and a second distance between the middle
surface and lower patterned surface are substantially equal, and wherein the optical sensor
and the patterned surfaces are moved relative to each other until a difference between a first
pair of contrast values between the higher and middle pattern and a second pair of contrast
values between the middle pattern and the lower pattern is less than a predetermined value of
about  2.0 dimensionless units, as explained below. This difference may be  3.0 or  4.0,
or as low as  1.0. Higher value of contrast differences allow easier but less accurate
focusing, and lower value of contrast differences yields more difficult but more accurate
focusing.
[0055] As shown in Figs. 6(a)-(b), the mechanism preferably includes a plurality of patterned
surfaces, e.g., at least two and optionally three patterned surfaces (601-603), and the
patterned surfaces comprise substantially the same pattern, e.g., a grid pattern. The patterned
surfaces are preferably adjacent to one another in a grouping. In the embodiment shown in
Fig. 6(a), the mechanism also includes an unpatterned surface 604. Preferably, each of the
patterned surfaces are located on parallel planar planes. In a preferred embodiment, the
middle patterned surface is at a height effectively equivalent to a focus position of a well in
multi-well tray 426 filled with a predetermined amount of fluid. The lower patterned surface
is at a height that is about 0.25 mm below the middle patterned surface and the upper
patterned surface is at a height that is about 0.25 mm above the middle patterned surface. In
 one embodiment, the lower patterned surface is at a height of about 4-4.75 nun above the
plate carriage (i.e., above the carriage platform that the plate rests on). Preferably, the lower
patterned surface is at a height of about 4.5-4.7 mm above the plate carriage, and most
preferably, the lower patterned surface is at a height of about 4.6-4.7 mm above the plate
 carriage. The middle patterned surface is at a height of about 4.5-5.0 mm above the plate
 carriage, preferably, about 4.7-4.9 mm above the plate carriage, and most preferably, about
 4.7-4.8 mm above the plate carriage. And the higher patterned surface is at a height of about
 4.75-5.10 mm above the plate carriage, preferably about 4.8-5.0 mm above the carriage
                                                  19

platform, and most preferably about 4.85-4.95 mm above the plate carriage. It is noted that
any one of the surfaces 601, 602 and 603 can be the middle patterned surface, the higher
pattern surface, or the lower pattern surface. In a preferred embodiment, the optical focusing
mechanism is adjacent to the plate carriage.
[0056] Therefore, the invention provides a method for focusing an optical sensor to a target
surface comprising the steps of (a) providing at least a higher, middle and lower patterned
surface 601-603, wherein the middle patterned surface and the target surface are at the same
focal height and wherein a first distance between the higher and middle patterned surfaces
and a second distance between the middle surface and lower patterned surface are
substantially equal; (b) obtaining a first contrast value difference between the higher and
middle patterned surfaces with the optical sensor; (c) obtaining a second contrast value
difference between the middle and lower patterned surfaces with the optical sensor; and (d)
comparing the first and second contrast value differences and determining if the target
surface is in focus and/or determining the magnitude and direction of focus adjustment
needed to place the target surface in focus.
[0057] During operation, the plate translation stage 403 translates the plate carriage 404 to
position the optical focusing mechanism over the contact mechanism shown in Figures 7(a)
7(c)(1), which includes a light source, such as light outlets 725-728 shown in Figure 7(c)(1).
Light outlets 725-728 can be connected to a single light emitting diode (LED) or each light
outlet may have its own LED or other light sources. The light source is illuminated and a
beam of light is shown on the underside of the optical focusing mechanism, more specifically
under surfaces 601-603. Preferably, light outlets 725-728 provides even lighting for surfaces
601-603. An optical sensor or camera in the light detection subsystem 110 therefore, images
the optical focusing mechanism, calculates the differences in contrast values described above,
and determines if the target is in focus and/or determines the magnitude and direction of the
focus adjustment needed to place the target surface in focus. Based on the calculation, the
focus of the optical sensor is adjusted accordingly, either manually or automatically, e.g.,
through the use of a motorized focus adjustment. Preferably, the method also includes the
steps of adjusting the distance between the optical sensor and the target surface and repeating
the steps of obtaining the first and second contrast values and comparing those contrast
values until a difference between the first and second contrast values are less than a
predetermined value. A suitable calculation to determine the contrast value is to take a region
or interest (ROI) of an image that is covered by the dot pattern of the focus target, e.g.,
                                                 20

surface 601, 602 or 603 or a portion thereof The average and the standard deviation of all of
the pixels within that ROI are measured. The average (AVG) and standard deviation
(StDEV) to calculate the contrast value (%CV) of that ROI are measured or ascertained.
                 %CV = ( StDEV / AVG) x 100
Then the %CV for each ROI (high and low) are then subtracted to create the difference value
that is reported to the operator. %CV as shown above is a unit-less or dimensionless value.
[00581 A preferred predetermined value of the difference in %CV contrast values is
determined as L2.0 experimentally by comparing ECL value as a function of defocus from
nominal. The magnitude of this difference may change depending on the contrast function.
A certain amount of defocus was acceptable without affecting ECL. The preferred value of
2 is within this range. A smaller value, e.g., A1.5 or 1.0 would be more accurate but also
more difficult to achieve during the focus operation. A larger value, e.g., +3.0 or 4.0 would
be less accurate but easier to achieve. One of ordinary skilled in the art may balance
accuracy and operational difficulty according to the teachings of the present invention.
Differences in contrast values between +1.0 and 4.0 are within the scope of the present
invention.
[0059] Other methodology of calculating or ascertaining contrast values, such as those
discussed in "Contrast in Complex Images" by Eli Peli, published in the Journal of the
Optical Society of America, No. 10, October 1990, at pages 2032-2040, can be used. This
reference is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0060] Additionally, plate carriage 404 contains a plurality of reference elements. One
reference element comprises an electrically conductive bottom surface 536 disposed on a
bottom surface of plate carriage 404, as shown in Fig. 5(n), which is used, during setup of the
apparatus, to train the positioning of the contact mechanism used to contact the bottom of
plates 426 held in the plate carriage 404. The contact mechanism, described in more detail
hereinbelow, includes a series of spring loaded contact members and can be raised to contact
a plate 426's bottom surface, e.g., to initiate an ECL measurement. As shown in Fig. 5(n),
the conductive bottom surface 536 is on the underside of the plate carriage 404 and it is
configured to be at the same height as a plate bottom when a plate 426 is latched in the plate
carriage 404. During apparatus setup or adjustment, the contact mechanism is raised until it
                                                21

reaches a height where the contact members touch surface 536, as detected by electrically
measuring the drop in resistance between contact members, signaling that the contact
members have properly touched conductive surface 536 and would properly contact the plate
bottoms during ECL measurements. This measured height is used to set the contact
mechanism height for contacting plates 426 held in the plate carriage 404.
 [0061] Still further, the plate carriage 404 comprises another reference element (depicted in
Fig. 5(c) as semicircular apertures cut into plate carriage 404, i.e., elements 517-520). A light
source, such as light outlet or LED 722 in the contact mechanism is projected through each
aperture 517-522. Plate translation stage 403 moving in the horizontal plane discussed above
position each aperture 517-522 above light outlet 722 shown in Figure 7(c)(1). The light
projected through each aperture is imaged by the light detector in light detection system 110
to reference the location of the plate carriage 404 in the x-y space of the horizontal plane
relative to other components of the apparatus. In a preferred embodiment, the reference
elements comprise one or more indentations or cut-outs, e.g., on the edge of the plate
platform, e.g., as shown in Fig. 5(c), at the two ends of reference surfaces/stops (501) and
 (503). Advantageously, the elements may also be imaged to confirm if the plate is in the
 correct orientation.
 [0062] Light outlet 722 and light outlets 725-728 are preferably illuminated by a single LED.
A suitable LED can be connected to light pipes or waveguides to the light outlets. A suitable
LED can have different intensity outputs depending on the voltage applied. In one example,
 as illustrated in Figure 7(h), LED 739 is connected to multiplexer 738. Microprocessor 729
 can instruct multiplexer 738 to apply a first voltage to LED 739 to activate light outlet 722
 and to apply a second voltage to LED 739 to activate light outlets 725-728. Alternatively,
 multiple LEDs can be used for the light outlets.
 [0063] The plate handling subassembly also includes one or more shipping locks to lock the
 plate carriage in place during shipping, discussed above and best illustrated in Figure 4(e). In
 a preferred embodiment, the shipping locks include solenoid driven pin 411 on removable
 drawer 240 being received in hole 412 on plate translation stage 403. The plate carriage 404
 rides on rails 422, 424, and preferably comprises a clamp to lock the carriage in place. Still
 further, the plate carriage 404 includes a plate orientation sensor, such as an accelerometer or
 electronic leveler, to ensure that a multi-well plate 426 placed on the plate carriage 404 is in
 the correct orientation.
                                                 22

[0064] The plate handling subassembly 120 also includes a plate contact mechanism that
includes electrical contact probes mounted onto a plate contact elevator for raising the probes
to contact electrical contacts on the bottom of a multi-well plate 426 discussed above, that are
in turn connected to electrodes in the wells of the plate. The contact probes are used to apply
the electrical potentials to electrodes in one or more wells of a multi-well plate 426. The
plate contact mechanism and the imaging apparatus are in alignment, such that the electrical
contact is made with the well or set of wells that is/are directly under, and in the imaging
field of, the imaging apparatus. The contact mechanism is shown in Fig. 7(a)-(b) and
includes a contact mechanism platform 701 comprising four interrogation zones 702-705,
wherein each zone includes a pair of electrical contact probes to conduct a voltage potential
to the interrogation zone. Preferably, interrogation zones 702-705 are arranged in quadrants
or 2x2 matrix. However, interrogation zones can be arranged in a linear manner or in any
PxQ matrix, wherein P and      Q are integers and can be different from each other. As discussed
in more detail below, multi-well plate 426 usable in inventive instrument 100 can be arranged
in a MxN matrix, where the MxN matrix is larger than the PxQ matrix. As discussed above,
PxQ matrix can be 12x8, 24x16, 48x32 wells or any number of wells.
 [0065] The apparatus also includes a controller operatively connected to a voltage source,
wherein the voltage source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contact probes,
and a multiplexer connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively
connecting the voltage source to the pair of electrical contact probes of a single interrogation
zone or connecting the voltage source to the pairs of electrical contact probes of more than
one interrogation zone. A block diagram showing the components of the controller is shown
in Fig. 7(h), including microprocessor 729, connected to power source 730 and digital analog
converter 731, which is connected to low pass filters 732 and 733, current monitor 734,
another optional power source 737, and analog digital converter 736, and a multiplexer 738.
The controller is also operatively connected to an LED 739, which is a component of the
contact mechanism, discussed above.
 [0066] The multiplexer 737 controlled by processor 729 directs the application of potential as
identified above based on the type of plate used in the instrument. If the multi-well plate 426
is configured to be analyzed one well at a time, referred to herein as a single-well addressable
plate, wherein a well of a plate corresponds to a zone of the contact mechanism platform, the
multiplexer 737 will direct the selective application of potential by electrically isolating each
 zone and selectively applying a potential only within a first zone. If, on the other hand, the
                                                 23

multi-well plate is configured to be analyzed two or more wells at a time, referred to herein as
a multi-well addressable plate, the multiplexer 737 will direct the selective application of
potential by electrically connecting two or more zones and selectively applying a potential
within those two or more zones. In one embodiment, the plates comprise a bar code that
includes plate configuration information and the apparatus 100 comprises a bar code reader
238 that reads the plate configuration information and identifies the type of plates positioned
in the stacker.
[0067] In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus includes a plurality of interrogation zones
702-705 that are arranged in a P x Q matrix. Preferably, the P x     Q matrix is a 2 x 2 matrix.
The pairs of electrical contact probes on the plate contact mechanism platform 701 preferably
comprise upstanding pins, e.g., spring-loaded pin. Still further, the apparatus preferably
further includes an optical sensor, such as the light detectors in the light detection system
110, positioned above the platform 701 and the platform 701 includes a first alignment
mechanism comprising a light source, such as light outlet 722 projecting from the platform
toward the optical sensor to align the platform 701 relative to the optical sensor. In one
embodiment, the light source (e.g., an LED or other type of light bulb) is positioned under
and shines light through an aperture in the contact mechanism, e.g., through aperture (722)
which is centered in platform (701) as shown in Fig. 7(c)(1). The apparatus also preferably
includes a second alignment mechanism comprising a plurality of apertures located on the
plate carriage frame (e.g., elements 517-520 shown in Fig. 5(c)) and the light source 722
from the platform 701 can be illuminated through these apertures and detected by the optical
sensor to further align the plate carriage frame with the platform 701. The plurality of
apertures can be positioned on at least two sides of the plate carriage frame (see description
above). Moreover, the apparatus further preferably includes a third alignment mechanism
comprising an electrical conductive surface located on the plate carriage frame (e.g., surface
 536 in Fig. 5(n)) such that when the electrical contacts on the platform are brought in contact
with the electrical conductive surface electrical current flows among the electrical contacts on
the platform to indicate a predetermined distance between the electrical contacts and the plate
 carriage frame. The apparatus preferably includes a fourth alignment/focusing mechanism
 comprising patterned focusing targets (e.g., surfaces 601 -603 in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b)) and the
 contact mechanism platform includes one or more light sources for passing light through the
patterns to enable imaging of the patterns, discussed above. The light source(s) may be a
 light source under aperture (722) as described above. Optionally, a plurality of light sources
                                                24

(e.g., LEDs or other types of light bulbs) may be used to generate a wider and more even
light field, e.g., the four LEDs (725-728) embedded in the plate contact mechanism platform
as shown in Fig. 7(c)(1).
[0068] In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus is adapted to interrogate samples contained
in a multi-well plate, wherein the multi-well plate comprises a plurality of wells arranged in
an M x N matrix, and the apparatus includes a carriage frame configured to support the multi
well plate, wherein the carriage frame is movable relative to a contact mechanism platform
comprising a plurality of interrogation zones, wherein each interrogation zone comprises at
least a pair of electrical contact probes to apply a voltage potential to at least one well. The
apparatus also includes a controller operatively connected to a motor to move the carriage
frame relative to the platform and operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein the
voltage source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and a multiplexer
connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively connecting the voltage
source to the pair of electrical contact probes of a single interrogation zone or connecting the
voltage source to at least one pair of electrical contact probes of more than one interrogation
zones. Preferably, the interrogation zones are arranged in a P x    Q matrix   and the M x N
matrix is larger than the P x Q matrix, which can be a 2 x 2 matrix. Preferably, each
interrogation zone is sized and dimensioned to interrogate one well on multi-well plate 426.
 [0069] Preferably, the electrical contact probes on the contact mechanism platform include a
plurality of working electrode contact probes that are selectively connected by the controller
to the voltage source to determine the number of wells to interrogate. In one embodiment, a
working electrode probe is connected to the working electrode in one well, or alternatively,
one working electrode probe is connected to the working electrode in a plurality of wells.
The working terminals electrode probes that are not connected can be electrically isolated in
the multiplexer when not in use, thereby allowing a plurality of working electrode probes
 (e.g., 4 probes) to be used to apply potential to a plurality or working electrodes in a plurality
of wells, one well at a time (e.g., applying potential to a group of 4 wells, one well at a time).
The electrical contacts on the platform can further comprise a plurality of counter electrode
probes that are electrically connected to at least one electrical ground. In one embodiment,
the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well plate that are connected to the counter
 electrode probes on the platform for a plurality of wells are electrically connected.
Alternatively, the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well plate that are connected to the
 counter electrode probes on the platform for all the wells are electrically connected. Still
                                                 25

further, the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well plate that are connected to the counter
electrode probes on the platform for at least one well can be electrically isolated. The
controller can interrogate P x   Q or fewer number   of wells simultaneously.
[0070] Referring to Figs. 7(c)(2) -(g), the contact mechanism platform 701 includes a
plurality of working contact probes 706-713 and counter contact probes, 714-721. As shown
in Fig. 7(c)(2), if the controller 709 is configured to electrically connect two or more
interrogation zones, then the instrument 100 selectively applies a potential within two or
more zones, e.g., zones 703 and 704, thereby applying a potential across working electrode
contact probes 706 and 710 and 709 and 713, respectively and connecting counter electrode
contact probes 714-717 and 718-721. The connections of the counter electrodes at platform
701 and plate 426 are discussed below. Also as discussed below, only one working contact
electrode and one counter contact electrode are necessary. Two of each are connected to
provide a redundancy for the system, so that an ECL signal is generated even when one
electrode fails.
[0071] Alternatively, if the switching mechanism is configured to electrically isolate each
zone then the instrument selectively applies a potential within a first zone, e.g., as in Fig.
7(d), wherein zone 703 is isolated and an electrical potential is applied across working
electrode contact probes 706 and 710. In one embodiment, all counter electrode contact
probes 714-717 and 718-721, which are connected to ground, are electrically connected at
platform 701. As discussed below in connection with Figures 7(k), the counter electrode
contact probes for each well are isolated by the counter electrodes on the bottom of plate 426.
In the example shown in Figure 7(d), the well directly above zone 703 has a counter electrode
that connects to counter electrode contact probes 718 and 719, but isolates from the other
counter electrode contact probes on platform 701. Alternatively, the counter electrodes for
each interrogation zone can be isolated at platform 701.
 [0072] Similarly, Figs. 7(e)-(g) illustrate how the contact mechanism is configured to apply a
potential within a first zone, 702 (Fig. 7(e)), 705 (Fig. 7(f)), and 704 (Fig. 7g), and a potential
is applied across working contact probes 707 and 712 (in Fig. 7(e)), 708 and 711 (in Fig.
7(f)), or 709 and 713 (in Fig. 7(g)), respectively, while counter contact probes 714-717 and
718-721 are electrically connected at platform 701, but the counter contact probes for each
interrogation zone are isolated by the counter electrode on the well on plate 426 directly
above each interrogation zone. Preferably, the contact probes are each independently spring
loaded contacts members, e.g., contact pins.
                                                 26

 [0073] In a preferred embodiment, the multi-well plate 426 comprises bottom electrical
contacts on a bottom surface of the plate for each well, wherein the bottom electrical contacts
are configured to contact the pair(s) of electrical contact probes on the platform 701. The
bottom electrical contacts include counter electrode contacts that are connected to counter
electrodes in the wells of the plate and working electrode contacts that are connected to
working electrodes in the wells of the plate. Each well includes at least one working and one
counter electrode, which depending on the plate format, may be electrically connected
(bussed) or electrically independent of the working and counter electrodes in other wells of
the plate.
 [00741 A non-limiting set of exemplary bottom electrical contact patterns are shown in Figs.
7(i)-(l), wherein Fig. 7(i) shows the pin contact configuration of platform 701 substantially
similar to Figure 7(c)(2). Figure 7(k) shows an overlap of the bottom electrical contacts
under exemplary four wells that overlay interrogation zones 702-705. Each well has bottom
counter electrode 740 having an exemplary "Z-shape" and two working electrodes 742 and
744. Bottom counter electrodes 740 are not electrically connected to each other, and hence
the counter electrodes for each well or each interrogation zone are separated or isolated at
plate 426.
 [0075] For zone 703, Z-shape bottom counter electrode 740 connects to counter electrodes
718 and 719. Bottom working electrodes 742 and 744 are connected to working electrodes
710 and 706, respectively.
 [0076] For zone 705, Z-shape bottom counter electrode 740 connects to counter electrodes
 720 and 721. Bottom working electrodes 742 and 744 are connected to working electrodes
 711 and 708, respectively. Zones 702 and 704 are similarly connected.
 [0077] The next electrical connection is to the inside of the well itself. As illustrated in
Figure 7(1), each well in this example has well working electrode 750 and well counter
 electrodes 752 and 754. Here, well working electrode 750 has a Z-shape and connects to
 both bottom working electrode 742 and 744, and well counter electrodes 752 and 754 are
 connected to bottom counter electrode 740.
 [0078] For zone 705, working electrodes 711 and 708 on platform 701 are connected to
 bottom electrodes 742 and 744 and well working electrode 750 for each well. Counter
 electrodes 720 and 721 on platform 701 are connected to bottom counter electrode 740 and
 well counter electrodes 752 and 754 for each well. The Z-shapes for bottom electrode 740
                                                 27

and well electrode 750 are designed to endure sufficient electrical contact. Any shape can be
used and the present invention is not limited to any particular shape.
[0079] As shown in the above discussion, each well and each interrogation zone has two
working electrodes, e.g., 708 and 711 for zone 705, and two counter electrodes, e.g., 720 and
721 for zone 705. Both working electrodes and both counter electrodes are electrically
connected-to a well as shown above. Only one pair of working and counter electrodes is
necessary to conduct ECL potential to a well. The other pair is for redundancy, in case one or
more electrode malfunctions.
[0080] It is further noted that in the example discussed above in connection with Figures 7(i),
7(k) and 7(1) where each well can be interrogated individually, the working electrodes for
each interrogation zone and well are isolated at platform 701 and multiplexer 738, and the
counter electrodes for each interrogation zone and well are isolated at plate 426 and its
bottom electrodes and well electrodes.
[0081] Figure 7(j) illustrates an example where four wells overlaying interrogation zones
702-705 can be interrogated at the same time using the contact pins or electrodes from the
same platform 701. As shown, this multi-well plate 426 has bottom working electrode 760
overlaying working electrodes 707, 708 and 709. Tray 426 also has bottom counter electrode
762 overlaying at least counter electrode 719, 720, 715 and 716. Bottom working electrode
760 and bottom counter electrode 762 are electrically connected upward to all four wells.
Activating one or more working electrodes 707, 708 and 709 and one or more counter
electrodes 719, 720, 715 and 716 would provide an ECL potential to all four wells.
Redundancy is also provides by the plurality of available working and counter electrodes.
[0082] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the plate bottom comprises
internal electrical contacts conduits connected to the bottom electrical contacts to conduct the
voltage potential to within the wells. In one embodiment, the bottom electrical contacts for at
least one well are electrically isolated from the bottom electrical contacts for adjacent wells
and optionally, the internal electrical contacts conduits for at least one well can be electrically
isolated from the bottom electrical contacts for adjacent wells. Reference is made to U.S.
Patent No. 7842246 and U.S. Application No. 20040022677 (both entitled "Assay Plates,
Reader Systems and Methods for Luminescence Test Measurements", filed on June 28, 2002,
hereby incorporated by reference), which discloses additional embodiments of plate bottoms
that can be interrogated by the contact mechanism disclosed herein.
                                                28

[0083] Therefore, the invention provides a method for interrogating samples contained in a
multi-well plate having a M x N matrix of wells comprising the steps of (a) providing a plate
contact mechanism platform having a plurality of interrogation zones, (b) providing at least
a pair of electrical contact probes (e.g., a working electrode contact probe and a counter
electrode contact probe) for each interrogation zone, wherein each interrogation zone is
adapted to interrogate a single well, (c) selectively applying a voltage potential to: (i) one
interrogation zone to interrogate one or more wells simultaneously or (ii) a plurality of
interrogation zones to interrogate a plurality of wells, and (d) moving the multi-well plate
relative to the platform to interrogate additional wells. A single well can be interrogated or a
M x N number of wells can be interrogated (wherein M x N is larger than the P x        Q matrix).
The method can also include the step of (e) controlling the application of voltage potential in
step (c) by selecting at least one positive active contact probe (e.g., the working electrode
probe) of the pairs of the electrical contact probes on the platform to connect to the voltage
potential. Step (e) can also include the step of electrically isolating at least one positive
active contact probe not connected to the voltage potential. The method can also include step
(f), providing bottom electrical contacts on a bottom surface of the multi-well plate and
optionally, (g) electrically isolating at least one ground contact probe (e.g., the counter
electrode probe) from the bottom electrical contacts. Optionally, all ground contact probes
from the bottom electrical contacts are isolated from each other.
 [0084] As described above, the apparatus can be used to measure luminescence from two
alternative types of multi-well plates, a single-well addressable plate (i.e., a plate that is
interrogated by the apparatus one well at a time), and/or a multi-well addressable plate (i.e., a
plate that is interrogated by the apparatus one sector at a time, wherein a sector is a grouping
 of adjacent wells). Various types of multi-well plates including single-well and multi-well
 addressable plates are described in U.S. Patent No. 7842246 and U.S. Application No.
 20040022677 (both entitled "Assay Plates, Reader Systems and Methods for Luminescence
 Test Measurements", filed on June 28, 2002, hereby incorporated by reference). The plates
 of the invention include several elements, including but not limited to, a plate top, a plate
 bottom, a plurality of wells, working electrodes, counter electrodes, reference electrodes,
 dielectric materials, electrical connections, conductive through holes, and assay reagents.
 The wells of the plate are defined by holes/openings in the plate top and the plate bottom can
 be affixed to the plate top, directly or in combination with other components, and the plate
 bottom can serve as the bottom of the well. One or more assay reagents can be included in
                                                  29

wells and/or assay domains of a plate. These reagents can be immobilized or placed on one
or more of the surfaces of a well, preferably on the surface of an electrode and most
preferably on the surface of a working electrode. The assay reagents can be contained or
localized by features within a well, e.g., patterned dielectric materials can confine or localize
fluids. The plate top preferably comprises a unitary molded structure made from rigid
thermoplastic material such as polystyrene, polyethylene or polypropylene. The plate bottom
preferably includes electrodes (e.g., working and/or counter electrodes) that comprise carbon,
preferably carbon layers, more preferably screen-printed layers of carbon inks. In another
preferred embodiment, the plate bottom includes electrodes comprised of a screen printed
conducting ink deposited on a substrate.
 [0085] A single well addressable plate includes a plate top having plate top openings and a
plate bottom mated to the plate top to define wells of the single well addressable plate, the
plate bottom comprising a substrate having a top surface with electrodes patterned thereon
 and a bottom surface with electrical contacts patterned thereon, wherein the electrodes and
 contacts are patterned to define a plurality of well bottoms of the single well addressable
plate, wherein a pattern within a well bottom comprises: (a) a working electrode on the top
 surface of the substrate, wherein the working electrode is electrically connected to an
 electrical contact; and (b) a counter electrode on the top surface of the substrate, wherein the
 counter electrode is electrically connected with the electrical contact, but not with an
 additional counter electrode in an additional well of the single well addressable plate.
 Preferably, the electrodes and contacts of a single-well addressable plate are individually
 addressable.
 [0086] A multi-well addressable plate includes a plate top having plate top openings and a
 plate bottom mated to the plate top to define wells of the multi-well addressable plate, the
 plate bottom comprising a substrate having a top surface with electrodes patterned thereon
 and a bottom surface with electrical contacts patterned thereon, wherein the electrodes and
 contacts are patterned to define two or more independently addressable sectors of two or
 more jointly addressable assay wells, each sector comprising two or more wells with: (a)
 jointly addressable working electrodes on the top surface of the substrate, wherein each of the
 working electrodes is electrically connected with each other and connected to at least a first
  of the electrical contacts; and (b)jointly addressable counter electrodes on the top surface of
 the substrate, wherein each of the counter electrodes is electrically connected with each other,
  but not with the working electrodes, and connected to at least a second of the electrical
                                                 30

contacts. In one embodiment, the independently addressable sectors include less than 50% of
the wells of the multi-well addressable plate, more preferably less than 20% of the wells of
the multi-well addressable plate. The independently addressable sectors can comprise a 4x4
array of wells or a 2x3 array of independently addressable sectors. Alternatively, the
independently addressable sectors can comprise one or more rows or one or more columns of
wells.
 [0087] A single-well or multi-well addressable plate can be a 4 well plate, 6 well plate, 24
well plate, 96 well plate, 384 well plate, 1536 well plate, 6144 well plate or 9600 well plate.
The electrodes of either plate format comprise carbon particles and they can further comprise
a printed conductive material, wherein one or more of the electrodes comprise a plurality of
assay domains formed thereon. The plurality of assay domains can include at least four assay
domains, preferably seven domains, and more preferably at least ten assay domains, and the
plurality of assay domains can be defined by openings in one or more dielectric layers
 supported on the working electrodes. Plates that can be used in the apparatus are available
from Meso Scale Discovery (Rockville, MD; www.mesoscale.com) and include but are not
limited to the following multi-well addressable plates (Meso Scale Discovery catalog
numbers): L15XA-3, L15XB-3, L15AA-1, L15AB-1, L15SA-1, L15SB-1, L15GB-1,
 L45XA-3, L45XB-3, N45153A-2, N45153B-2, N45154A-2, and N45154B-2; and the
 following single-well addressable plates (Meso Scale Discovery catalog numbers): L55AB-1,
 L55SA-1, L55XA-1, and L55XB-1.
 [0088] Accordingly, the apparatus measures luminescence from a multi-well plate by first
 detecting the plate type in the apparatus, e.g., by reading the bar code on the multi-well plate
 which includes plate configuration information, aligning the contact mechanism and imaging
 apparatus such that the interrogation zone or zones are directly under and in the imaging field
 of the imaging apparatus, and directing the selective application of potential by (a)
 electrically isolating each interrogation zone of the contact mechanism and selectively
 applying a potential only within a first zone (for a single-well addressable plate); or (b)
 electrically connecting two or more zone and selectively applying a potential within those
 two or more zone (for a multi-well addressable plate). If a multi-well addressable plate is
 being used in the apparatus, the imaging system and contact mechanism are aligned with an
 interrogation zone that corresponds to a grouping or sector of adjacent wells, e.g., a grouping
 of four adjacent wells, and the apparatus selectively applies a voltage to all wells of that
  sector. The apparatus then moves the plate via the plate translation stage to reposition the
                                                  31

contact mechanism and imaging system with an additional interrogation zone that
corresponds to an additional sector or grouping of wells, and selectively applies a voltage to
the wells of that additional sector. If a single well addressable plate is being used in the
apparatus, the imaging system and contact mechanism are aligned with an interrogation zone
that corresponds to a grouping or sector of adjacent wells, e.g., a grouping of four adjacent
wells, and the apparatus selectively applies a voltage to each well of that sector one at a time.
Likewise, the plate is moved via the plate translation stage to reposition the contact
mechanism and imaging system with an additional interrogation zone that corresponds to an
additional sector of wells to interrogate each well of that additional sector one at a time.
 [0089] In a specific embodiment, the apparatus can measure luminescence from a single well
addressable plate or a multi-well addressable plate, wherein the apparatus includes:
                (i)     a plate type identification interface for identifying the plate type;
                (ii)    a plate translation stage for holding and translating the multi-well plate
in the x-y plane;
                (iii)   a plate contact mechanism comprising a plurality of contact probes and
positioned below the plate translation stage and within the range of motion of the stage,
 wherein the mechanism is mounted on a contact mechanism elevator that can raise and lower
the mechanism to bring the probes into and out of contact with a bottom contact surface the
plate when positioned on the translation stage;
         (iv)   a voltage source for applying potential through the contact probes to the plate;
 and
         (v)    an imaging system positioned above the plate translation stage and in vertical
 alignment with the plate contact mechanism, wherein
                (a)       the imaging system is configured to image a P x    Q matrix of wells, the
 plate contact mechanism is configured to contact the bottom contact surface associated with
 the matrix and the plate translation stage is configured to translate a plate to position the
 matrix in alignment with the imaging system and plate contact mechanism;
                 (b)     the apparatus is configured to sequentially apply a voltage to each well
 in the matrix of a single well addressable plate and image the matrix; and
                 (c)     the apparatus is configured to simultaneously apply a voltage to each
 well in the matrix of a multi-well addressable plate and image the matrix.
  [00901 Preferably, the P x Q matrix is a 2 x 2 array of wells. The imaging system can collect
 a separate image for each sequential application of voltage to each well in the matrix of a
                                                 32

single well addressable plate. The plate type identification interface can include a bar code
reader, an EPROM reader, an EEPROM reader, or an RFID reader, or alternatively, the plate
type identification interface comprises a graphical user interface configured to enable a user
to input plate type identification information.
[0091] Therefore, a method for measuring luminescence from a single well addressable plate
or a multi-well addressable plate using such an apparatus comprises:
         (a)     loading a plate on the plate translation stage;
         (b)     identifying the plate as being a single well or multi-well addressable plate;
         (c)     moving the plate translation stage to align a first P x Q matrix  of wells with
the plate contact mechanism and imaging system;
         (d)     raising the plate contact mechanism so that the contact probes on the contact
mechanism contact the bottom contact surface associated with the P x Q matrix of wells;
         (e)     generating and imaging luminescence in the P x      Q matrix by sequentially
applying voltage to each well in the group while the group is imaged, if the plate is a single
well addressable plate;
         (f)     generating and imaging luminescence in the P x Q matrix by simultaneously
applying voltage to each well in the matrix while the matrix is imaged, if the plate is a multi
well addressable plate; and
         (g)     repeating steps (c) through(f) for additional P x  Q matrices in the plate.
         The removable drawer may include a light source (e.g., an LED) located underneath
the detection aperture and below the elevation of plate translation stage. In one embodiment,
this light source or plurality of light sources are components of the plate contact mechanism.
As described above in reference to the optical focusing mechanism, the light source(s) in the
 contact mechanism are used in connection with the optical focusing mechanism to adjust the
 contrast and focus of the light detector relative to a plate.
 [0092] In an additional embodiment, one or more light source(s) can also be used in
 connection with fiducial holes or windows to correct for errors in plate alignment. Light
 from the light source is passed through the fiducials and imaged on the imaging apparatus so
 as to determine the correct for the alignment of the plate. Advantageously, plates formed
 from plate bottoms mated to a plate top (e.g., plates with screen printed plate bottoms mated
 to injection-molded plate tops as described in copending U.S. Applications 2004/0022677
 and 2005/0052646) include fiducials patterned (e.g., screen printed) or cut into the plate
                                                 33

bottom to correct for misalignment of the plate bottom relative to the plate top. In one
specific embodiment, the plate top on such a plate includes holes (e.g., in the outside frame of
the plate top) aligned with fiducials on the plate bottom to allow imaging of the fiducials.
Accordingly, the imaging of light generated under a plate may be used to communicate the
exact position of the plate to the image processing software and also to provide for a camera
focus check. The plate may then be realigned using a two-axis positioning apparatus. Thus,
the apparatus may process plates via a plate positioning method comprising: (1) providing a
plate having light-path openings; (2) illuminating the plate from the bottom; (3) detecting
light coming through light-path openings; and (4) optionally, realigning the plate.
[0093] In a preferred embodiment, the contact mechanism platform includes a first alignment
feature 722 and the light detection subsystem comprises a camera positioned above the
platform which is adjustable relative to the first alignment feature. Preferably, the first
alignment feature is light source, e.g., an LED. The camera in the light detection subsystem
is adjustable relative to the alignment feature in the x-y plane. The platform can further
include a plurality of additional alignment features, e.g., at least one additional alignment
feature in each quadrant, and the camera position is adjustable relative to each additional
alignment feature. The additional alignment features can comprise a light source, e.g., an
LED. Therefore, as described above, the apparatus may confirm proper alignment of the
contact mechanism and the detection aperture using the optical focusing mechanism by: (1)
illuminating the contact mechanism alignment features; (2) detecting light coming from the
alignment features; and (4) optionally, realigning the plate translation stage, the light
 detector, and/or the contact mechanism. In one preferred embodiment, the apparatus
 confirms proper alignment of the contact mechanism before making contact with the plate
 and then the plate position is confirmed by detecting light coming from light-path openings in
the plate and realigning the plate as needed.
 [0094] As illustrated in Fig. 7(a)-(b), the height of the contact mechanism platform is
 adjustable because the platform further includes a shaft 723 driven by a gear mechanism 724.
 In one embodiment, the gear mechanism comprises a worm gear. In a preferred embodiment,
 the platform comprises a plate surface area sized to accommodate a microtitre plate, e.g.,
 multi-well plate, and the platfonn further includes a spillage collection area surrounding the
 plate surface area to protect components of the drawer from accidental spills of fluid that may
 be contained within the multi-well plate.
                                                 34

[0095] The light detection subsystem of the apparatus comprises a light detector that can be
mounted to a detection aperture on the housing top via a light-tight connector or baffle. In
certain embodiments, the light detector is an imaging light detector such as a CCD camera
and it also includes a lens. A light detection subsystem is shown in Fig. 8(a). The subsystem
includes a light detector housing 801 surrounding the light detector (not shown) and attached
to the housing top via a cast component 802 that is bolted to the housing top over the
detection aperture. Above the cast component sits a buckle or clamp 803 that includes a theta
adjustment mechanism comprised of screw 804 and gear 805, illustrated in Fig. 8(b). The
camera focusing mechanism is also configured to focus the camera in the x, y, and z
directions as needed, either manually, via motorized elements, or both. The light detection
subsystem further includes one or more light-tighting elements to prevent light leakage within
the light detection subsystem or at the juncture between the light detection subsystem and the
housing top. For example, molded rubber or other compressible materials can be sandwiched
between joined components to prevent light leakage. In addition, the light detector housing
includes one or more vents and/or cooling elements to cool the light detector within the
housing. In one embodiment, the housing includes an intake vent and an exhaust vent, each
positioned on the opposite ends of the housing. Additional vents can be positioned in the
housing. In a preferred embodiment, the intake vent is sized to match a cooling fan
positioned within the housing.
 [0096] A lens, coupled to a camera, is used to provide a focused image of luminescence
generated from plates in the light-tight enclosure. A diaphragm sealed to the lens and a
detection aperture in the top of enclosure, and allows the imaging system to image light from
enclosure while maintaining the enclosure in a light-tight environment protected from
environmental light. Suitable cameras for use in the imaging system include, but are not
limited to, conventional cameras such as film cameras, CCD cameras, CMOS cameras, and
the like. CCD cameras may be cooled to lower electronic noise. Preferably, the lens is a
high numerical aperture lens which may be made from glass or injection-molded plastic. The
 imaging system may be used to image one well or multiple wells of a plate at a time. The
 light collection efficiency for imaging light from a single well is higher than for imaging a
 group of wells due to the closer match in the size of the CCD chip and the area being imaged.
 The reduced size of the imaged area and the increase in collection efficiency allows for the
 use of small inexpensive CCD cameras and lenses while maintaining high sensitivity in
 detection.
                                                 35

[0097] If high resolution is not required, the sensitivity of the measurement can be improved
by using hardware binning on the CCD during image collection, which effectively reduces
the electronic read noise per unit area. Preferred binning depends on the field of view,
demagnification, and size of the CCD pixels. In a preferred embodiment, the light detector
comprises a camera with a CCD having 512 x 512 pixels, with each pixel size being 24 x 24
microns and a total area of 12.3 x 12.3 nun, and a lens with an image demagnification factor
of 1.45X.     For such detector and lens combination, 4 x 4 binning is preferred, resulting in a
super-pixel size of approximately 100x100 microns, which translates to approximately 150
micron resolution in the object plane at the ECL electrode. Particularly advantageous, for
their low cost and size, is the use of non-cooled cameras or cameras with minimal cooling
(preferably to about -20'C, about -100 C, about 00 C, or higher temperatures). In a preferred
embodiment, the light detection subsystem includes a lens assembly consisting of a series of
lens elements (904 and 905) designed to produce a telecentric view of the imaged wells and
an optical bandpass filter (903) in the optical path within the lens assembly such that the light
rays passing through the filter are at substantially normal incidence with respect to the filter,
In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 9, the camera is provided a telecentric view of the
imaged wells (901).
 [0098] The housing top of the plate handling system further includes a plate stacker mounted
on the housing top, above the plate introduction apertures, wherein the plate stackers are
configured to receive or deliver plates to the plate elevators. The plate stacker can include a
removable stacking nest configured to house a plurality of plates and prevent shifting of
plates on the instrument, thereby coordinating the proper introduction of each plate in the
 stacking nest onto the plate elevator. In one embodiment, the stacking nest can accommodate
 at least 5 plates, and preferably at least 10 plates, and the stacking nest can accommodate a
plate nesting extension element configured to further extend the capacity of the stacking nest.
 The plate elevator comprises a plate detection sensor, e.g., a capacitance sensor, and the
 stacker can also include a plate detection sensor, e.g., a capacitance, weight, or optical sensor.
 [0099] A method is provided for using the apparatus for conducting measurements in multi
 well plates. The plates may be conventional multi-well plates. Measurement techniques that
 may be used include, but are not limited to, techniques known in the art such as cell culture
 based assays, binding assays (including agglutination tests, immunoassays, nucleic acid
 hybridization assays, etc.), enzymatic assays, colorometric assays, etc. Other suitable
 techniques will be readily apparent to one of average skill in the art.
                                                  36

[001001         Methods for measuring the amount of an analyte also include techniques that
measure analytes through the detection of labels which may be attached directly or indirectly
(e.g., through the use of labeled binding partners of an analyte) to an analyte. Suitable labels
include labels that can be directly visualized (e.g., particles that may be seen visually and
labels that generate an measurable signal such as light scattering, optical absorbance,
fluorescence, chemiluminescence, electrochemiluminescence, radioactivity, magnetic fields,
etc). Labels that may be used also include enzymes or other chemically reactive species that
have a chemical activity that leads to a measurable signal such as light scattering, absorbance,
fluorescence, etc. The formation of product may be detectable, e.g., due a difference, relative
to the substrate, in a measurable property such as absorbance, fluorescence,
chemiluminescence, light scattering, etc. Certain (but not all) measurement methods that may
be used with solid phase binding methods according to the invention may benefit from or
require a wash step to remove unbound components (e.g., labels) from the solid phase
 [00101]         In one embodiment, a measurement done with the apparatus of the invention
may employ electrochemiluminescence-based assay formats, e.g. electrochemiluminescence
based immunoassays. The high sensitivity, broad dynamic range and selectivity of ECL are
important factors for medical diagnostics. Commercially available ECL instruments have
 demonstrated exceptional performance and they have become widely used for reasons
including their excellent sensitivity, dynamic range, precision, and tolerance of complex
 sample matrices. Species that can be induced to emit ECL (ECL-active species) have been
used as ECL labels, e.g., (i) organometallic compounds where the metal is from, for example,
 the noble metals of group VIII, including Ru-containing and Os-containing organometallic
 compounds such as the tris-bipyridyl-ruthenium (RuBpy) moiety, and (ii) luminol and related
 compounds. Species that participate with the ECL label in the ECL process are referred to
 herein as ECL coreactants. Commonly used coreactants include tertiary amines (e.g., see U.S.
 Patent No. 5,846,485), oxalate, and persulfate for ECL from RuBpy and hydrogen peroxide
 for ECL from luminol (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,240,863). The light generated by ECL
 labels can be used as a reporter signal in diagnostic procedures (Bard et al., U.S. Patent No.
 5,238,808, herein incorporated by reference). For instance, an ECL label can be covalently
 coupled to a binding agent such as an antibody, nucleic acid probe, receptor or ligand; the
 participation of the binding reagent in a binding interaction can be monitored by measuring
 ECL emitted from the ECL label. Alternatively, the ECL signal from an ECL-active
 compound may be indicative of the chemical environment (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
                                                37

5,641,623 which describes ECL assays that monitor the formation or destruction of ECL
coreactants). For more background on ECL, ECL labels, ECL assays and instrumentation for
conducting ECL assays see U.S. Patents Nos. 5,093,268; 5,147,806; 5,324,457; 5,591,581;
5,597,910; 5,641,623; 5,643,713; 5,679,519; 5,705,402; 5,846,485; 5,866,434; 5,786,141;
5,731,147; 6,066,448; 6,136,268; 5,776,672; 5,308,754; 5,240,863; 6,207,369; 6,214,552 and
5,589,136 and Published PCT Nos. W099/63347; W000/03233; W099/58962;
W099/32662; W099/14599; W098/12539; W097/36931 and W098/57154, all of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
 [00102]         In certain embodiments, plates adapted for use in electrochemiluminescence
(ECL) assays are employed as described in U.S. Patent No. 7842246. The apparatus of the
invention can use plates that are configured to detect ECL from one well at a time or more
than one well at a time. As described above, plates configured to detect ECL one well at a
time or more than one well at a time include electrode and electrode contacts that are
specifically patterned to allow application of electrical energy to electrodes in only one well
at a time or more than one well at a time. The apparatus may be particularly well-suited for
carrying out assays in plates containing dry reagents and/or sealed wells, e.g., as described in
U.S. Application 11/642,970 of Glezer et al.
 [00103]         In one embodiment, the method comprises: (a) introducing a plate to a plate
 stacker, (b) opening the light-tight door, (c) lowering the plate from the plate stacker to the
 lifting platform on the plate translation stage, (d) sealing the light-tight door, (e) translating
the plate to position one or more wells under the light detector, (f) detecting luminescence
 from the one or more wells, (g) opening the light-tight door, (h) translating the plate to a
position under a plate stacker, and (i) raising the plate to the plate stacker. In a preferred
 embodiment, the method also includes reading a plate identifier on the plate and identifying
 the plate configuration, translating the plate to position the one or more wells under the light
 detector, optionally imaging one or more alignment features on the contact mechanism and
 adjusting the position of the light detector relative to the contact mechanism, and selectively
 applying potential within one or more interrogation zones based on the plate configuration.
 The method may further comprise translating the plate carriage to position one or more
 additional wells under the light detector and detecting luminescence from the one or more
 additional wells. The method may also, optionally, comprise applying electrical energy to
 electrodes in one or more of the wells (e.g., to induce electrochemiluminescence).
                                                 38

[001041         ECL-based multiplexed testing is described in U.S. Publications
2004/0022677 and 2004/0052646 of U.S. Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363,
respectively; U.S. Publication 2003/0207290 of U.S. Application 10/238,960; U.S.
Publication 2003/0113713 of U.S. Application 10/238,391; U.S. Publication 2004/0189311
of U.S. Application 10/744,726; and U.S. Publication 2005/0142033 of U.S. Application
 10/980,198.
 [00105]        A method is also provided for conducting assays for biological agents using
the apparatus described herein. In one embodiment, the method is a binding assay. In
another embodiment, the method is a solid-phase binding assay (in one example, a solid
phase immunoassay) and comprises contacting an assay composition with one or more
binding surfaces that bind analytes of interest (or their binding competitors) present in the
assay composition. The method may also include contacting the assay composition with one
or more detection reagents capable of specifically binding with the analytes of interest. The
multiplexed binding assay methods according to preferred embodiments can involve a
number of formats available in the art. Suitable assay methods include sandwich or
competitive binding assays fonnat. Examples of sandwich immunoassays are described in
U.S. Patents 4,168,146 and 4,366,241. Examples of competitive immunoassays include those
disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,235,601; 4,442,204; and 5,208,535 to Buechler et al. In one
example, small molecule toxins such as marine and fungal toxins can be advantageously
measured in competitive immunoassay formats.
 [00106]        Binding reagents that can be used as detection reagents, the binding
components of binding surfaces and/or bridging reagents include, but are not limited to,
antibodies, receptors, ligands, haptens, antigens, epitopes, mimitopes, aptamers, hybridization
partners, and intercalaters. Suitable binding reagent compositions include, but are not limited
to, proteins, nucleic acids, drugs, steroids, hormones, lipids, polysaccharides, and
combinations thereof The term "antibody" includes intact antibody molecules (including
hybrid antibodies assembled by in vitro re-association of antibody subunits), antibody
fragments, and recombinant protein constructs comprising an antigen binding domain of an
antibody (as described, e.g., in Porter & Weir, J.Cell Physiol., 67 (Suppl 1):51-64, 1966;
Hochman et al., Biochemistry 12:1130-1135, 1973; hereby incorporated by reference). The
term also includes intact antibody molecules, antibody fragments, and antibody constructs
that have been chemically modified, e.g., by the introduction of a label.
                                                39

[00107]         Measured, as used herein, is understood to encompass quantitative and
qualitative measurement, and encompasses measurements carried out for a variety of
purposes including, but not limited to, detecting the presence of an analyte, quantitating the
amount of an analyte, identifying a known analyte, and/or determining the identity of an
unknown analyte in a sample. According to one embodiment, the amounts the first binding
reagent and the second binding reagent bound to one or more binding surfaces may be
presented as a concentration value of the analytes in a sample, i.e., the amount of each analyte
per volume of sample.
[00108]         Analytes may be detected using electrochemiluminescence-based assay
formats. Electrochemiluminescence measurements are preferably carried out using binding
reagents immobilized or otherwise collected on an electrode surface. Especially preferred
electrodes include screen-printed carbon ink electrodes which may be patterned on the
bottom of specially designed cartridges and/or multi-well plates (e.g., 24-, 96-, 384- etc. well
plates). Electrochemiluminescence from ECL labels on the surface of the carbon electrodes
is induced and measured using an imaging plate reader as described in copending U.S.
Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363 (both entitled "Assay Plates, Reader Systems and
Methods for Luminescence Test Measurements", filed on June 28, 2002, hereby incorporated
by reference). Analogous plates and plate readers are now commercially available (MULTI
SPOT* and MULTI-ARRAY* plates and SECTOR* instruments, Meso Scale Discovery, a
division of Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC, Rockville, MD).
 [00109]        In one embodiment, antibodies that are immobilized on the electrodes within
the plates may be used to detect the selected biological agent in a sandwich immunoassay
format. In another embodiment, microarrays of antibodies, patterned on integrated electrodes
within the plates, will be used to detect the plurality of the selected biological agents in a
sandwich immunoassay format. Accordingly, each well contains one or more capture
antibodies immobilized on the working electrode of the plate and, optionally, in dry form or
as separate components, e.g., in a kit, labeled detection antibodies and all additional reagents
necessary for analysis of samples, and for carrying out positive and negative controls.
 [00110]         Patents, patent applications, publications, and test methods cited in this
 disclosure are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The present invention is not
to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed, various
modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to
                                                40

those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Such
modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the claims.
PARTS LIST
                  Reference No.         Part Name
                  100                   Apparatus
                  110                   Light detection system with light
                                        detectors
                  120                   Plate handling system
                  130                   Light tight enclosure
                  231                   Housing
                  232                   Housing top
                  233                   Housing bottom
                  234                   Housing front
                  235                   Housing rear
                  236, 237              Plate introduction/ejection
                  238                   Bar code reader
                  240                   Removable drawer
                  400                   Plate elevator mechanism
                  401, 402              Plate lifting platform
                  403                   Plate translation stage
                  404                   Plate carriage with opening
                  405, 406, 407         Alignment pins
                  408, 409, 410         Alightment holes
                  411                   Spring loaded pin
                  412                   Hole in plate carriage 404
                  413                   Electrical contact mechanism on
                                        housing tip 232
                  414                   Companion electrical contact
                                        mechanism on drawer
                  415                   X-Y Frame
                  416, 417              Alignment latches
                  418,419               Alignment catches
                  420                   Opening in carriage
                  422, 424              Rails
                  426                   Multi-well plate
                  501                   First stop
                  502                   Plate clamp arm
                  503                   Bracket
                  504                   Leg
                  506                   Leg
                  507                   Ramp
                  508                   Ramp
                                                 41

509                 First latch member
510                 Actuating rod
510a                Extended portion of actuating rod
511                 Pedal
512                 Spring
513                 Second Stop
514                 Spring
515                 Biased clamp
515a                Extended portion of biased clamp
515b                Biased end of biased clamp
516                 Ejector
522                 Skirt
524                 Fulcrum
526                 Sheath
528,530             Ends of anm 502
531                 Pivot point
532                 Spring for biased clamp 515
534                 Over-travel preventer
536                 Conductive bottom surface
701                 Platform
702, 703, 704, 705  Interrogation zones on platform 701
706, 707, 708, 709, Working electrodes on platform 701
710, 711, 712, 713
714, 715, 716, 717, Counter electrodes on platform 701
718,719,720,721
722                 Aligning light outlet
723                 Shaft
724                 Gear mechanism
725, 726, 727, 728  Light outlets
729                 Microprocessor
730                 Power source
731                 DAC
732                 Low-pass filter
733                 Low-pass filter
734                 Current monitor
736                 ADC
737                 Power source
738                 Multiplexer
739                 LED
740                 Bottom counter electrode
742, 744            Bottom working electrodes
750                 Well working electrode
752, 754            Well counter electrodes
760                 Bottom working electrode
                            42

762 Bottom counter electrode
801 Light detector housing
802 Cast component
803 Buckle or clamp
804 Screw
805 Gear
901 Imaged well
902 Camera
903 Optical bandpass filter
904 Lens
905 Lens
           43

WE CLAIM:
1.     An instrument comprising:
       a contact platform, wherein the contact platform comprises a plurality of
interrogation zones and each interrogation zone comprises at least a pair of electrical
contacts to conduct a voltage potential to the interrogation zone, and
       a controller operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein the voltage
source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and
       a multiplexer connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively
connecting the voltage source to the pair of electrical contacts of a single interrogation
zone or connecting the voltage source to the pairs of electrical contacts of more than one
interrogation zones.
2.     The instrument of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interrogation zones are arranged
       in a P x Q matrix.
3.     The instrument of claim 2, wherein the P x   Q matrix is   a 2 x 2 matrix.
4.     The instrument of claim 1, wherein the pairs of electrical contacts on the contact
platform comprise upstanding pins.
5.     The instrument of claim 4, wherein the upstanding pins are spring loaded.
6.     The instrument of claim 1 further comprises an optical sensor positioned above the
contact platform.
7.     The instrument of claim 6 further comprising a first alignment mechanism
comprising a light source projecting from the platform toward the optical sensor to align
the platform relative to the optical sensor.
8.       The instrument of claim 1 further comprises a plate carriage platform adapted to
transport a multi-well plate and to position the plate relative to the contact platform, such
that the voltage potential can be applied to one or more wells on the plate.
                                              44

9.     The instrument of claim 8, further comprising a second alignment mechanism
comprising a plurality of apertures located on the plate carriage frame and wherein a light
source from the platform is illuminated through the apertures to further align the plate
carriage frame with the contact platform.
10.    The instrument of claim 9, wherein the plate carriage frame comprises a rectangular
       opening sized and dimensioned to support a skirt on a perimeter of the multi-well
       plate.
11.    The instrument of claim 10, wherein the plurality of apertures are positioned on at
least two sides of the rectangular opening.
12.    The instrument of claim 8, wherein the plate carriage frame comprises a latching
mechanism to retain the multi-well plate to the plate carriage frame.
13.    The instrument of claim 8 further comprising a focusing mechanism disposed on
       the plate carriage frame allowing the optical sensor to be focused relative to the
       focusing mechanism.
14.    The instrument of claim 8 further comprising a third alignment mechanism
comprising an electrical conductive surface located on the plate carriage frame such that
when the electrical contacts on the contact platform are brought in contact with the
electrical conductive surface electrical current flows among the electrical contacts on the
contact platform to indicate a predetermined distance between the electrical contacts and
the plate carriage frame.
15.    An instrument comprising:
       a contact platform, wherein the platform comprises a plurality of interrogation
zones and each interrogation zone comprises at least a pair of electrical contacts to
conduct a voltage potential to the interrogation zone, and
       a controller operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein the voltage source is
connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and
         a means connected to the controller and the voltage source for switching from a
first connection between the voltage source and the electrical contacts of a single
                                              45

interrogation zone to a second connection between the voltage source and the electrical
contacts of one or more interrogation zones.
16.    An instrument adapted to interrogate samples contained in a multi-well plate
comprising:
       a carriage frame configured to support the multi-well plate and the carriage frame is
movable relative to a contact platform,
       wherein the multi-well plate comprises a plurality of wells, wherein the wells
are arranged in a M x N matrix, and
       wherein the contact platform comprises a plurality of interrogation zones,
wherein each interrogation zone comprises at least a pair of electrical contacts to
conduct a voltage potential to at least one well, and
       a controller operatively connected to a motor to move the carriage frame relative to
the contact platform and operatively connected to a voltage source, wherein the voltage
source is connectable to one or more pairs of electrical contacts, and
       a multiplexer connected to the controller and to the voltage source for selectively
connecting the voltage source to the pair of electrical contacts of a single interrogation
zone or connecting the voltage source to at least one pair of electrical contacts of more
than one interrogation zones.
17.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein the interrogation zones are arranged in a P x   Q
matrix, and wherein the M x N matrix is larger than the P x    Q matrix.
18.    The instrument of claim 17, wherein the P x    Q matrix is a 2 x 2 matrix.
19.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein multi-well plate comprises bottom electrical
contacts on a bottom surface of the plate for each well, wherein the bottom electrical
contacts are adapted to contact the pairs of electrical contacts on the contact platform.
20.    The instrument of claim 19, wherein the multi-well plate further comprises internal
electrical contacts connected to the bottom electrical contacts to conduct the voltage
potential to within the wells.
21.    The instrument of claim 19, wherein the bottom electrical contacts for at least one
well are electrically isolated from the bottom electrical contacts for adjacent wells.
                                              46

22.    The instrument of claim 20, wherein the internal electrical contacts for at least one
well are electrically isolated from the bottom electrical contacts for adjacent wells.
23.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein the electrical contacts on the platform
comprises a plurality of working electrodes that are selectively connected by the
controller to the voltage source determine the number of wells to interrogate.
24.    The instrument of claim 23, wherein one working electrode is connected to one
well.
25.    The instrument of claim 23, wherein one working electrode is connected to a
plurality of wells.
26.    The instrument of claim 23, wherein the working terminals that are not connected
are electrically isolated in the multiplexer.
27.    The instrument of claim 23, wherein the electrical contacts on the platform further
comprises a plurality of counter electrodes that are electrically connected to at least one
electrical ground.
28.    The instrument of claim 27, wherein the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well
tray that are connected to the counter electrodes on the contact platform for a plurality of
wells are electrically connected.
29.    The instrument of claim 27, wherein the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well
tray that are connected to the counter electrodes on the contact platform for all the wells
are electrically connected.
30.    The instrument of claim 27, wherein the bottom electrical contacts of the multi-well
tray that are connected to the counter electrode on the contact platform for at least one
well are electrically isolated.
31.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein the pairs of electrical contacts on the contact
platform comprise upstanding pins.
                                              47

32.    The instrument of claim 31, wherein the upstanding pins are spring loaded.
33.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein the controller interrogates P x      Q number of
wells simultaneously.
34.    The instrument of claim 16, wherein the controller interrogates less than P x     Q
number of wells simultaneously.
35.    A method for interrogating samples contained in a multi-well plate having a M x N
matrix of wells comprising the steps of
       (a)    providing a contact platform having a plurality of interrogation zones,
       (b)    providing at least a pair of electrical contacts for each interrogation zone,
       wherein each interrogation zone is adapted to interrogate a single well,
       (c)    applying, selectively, a voltage potential to: (i) one interrogation zone to
       interrogate one or more wells simultaneously or (ii) a plurality of interrogation
       zonesto interrogate a plurality of wells, and
       (d)    moving the multi-well plate relative to the platform to interrogate additional
       wells.
36.    The method of claim 35, wherein the interrogation zones are arranged in a P x       Q
matrix and wherein the M x N matrix is larger than the P x       Q matrix.
37.    The method of claim 35, wherein in step (c)(i) a single well is interrogated.
38.    The method of claim 36, wherein in step (c)(ii) a M x N number of wells are
interrogated.
39.    The method of claim 35 further comprising step (e) controlling the application of
voltage potential in step (c) by selecting at least one positive contact of the pairs of the
electrical contacts on the contact platform to connect to the voltage potential.
40.    The method of claim 39, wherein step (e) further include the step of electrically
isolating at least one positive contact not connected to the voltage potential.
                                                48

41.    The method of claim 39 further comprising step (f) providing bottom electrical
contacts on a bottom surface of the multi-well plate.
42.    The method of claim 41 further comprising step (g) electrically isolating at least
one ground contact from the bottom electrical contacts.
43.    The method of claim 42 wherein in step (g) all ground contacts from the bottom
electrical contacts are isolated from each other.
44.    The method of claim 35 further comprising step (h) providing an optical sensor.
45.    The method of claim 44 further comprising step (i) focusing the optical sensor to
the contact platform.
46.    The method of claim 44 further comprising step (j) aligning the optical sensor to
the contact platform.
47.    The method of claim 44 further comprising step (k) aligning a tray carriage frame
adapted to carry the multi-well tray to the contact platform.
48.    The method of claim 35 further comprising step (1) aligning the pairs of electrical
contacts of the contact platform to a bottom surface of multi-well tray.
49.    The method of claim 48, wherein step (1) further comprises providing an
electrically conductive surface of the tray carriage frame.
50.    The method of claim 35 further comprising step (in) latching the multi-well tray to
a tray carriage frame.
                                              49

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
