ABSTRACT
According to an embodiment, a cochlear implant system is disclosed. The system
includes an input unit, a filterbank, a processing unit and an implant. The input unit is
configured to provide a first electrical signal from a first sound source and a second
electrical signal from a second sound source. The filterbank is configured to filter the
first electrical signal into a plurality of first band limited signals and the second
electrical signal into a plurality of second band limited signals. The processing unit is
configured to generate a primary pulse pattern based on a first band selected from the
plurality of first band limited signals and to generate a secondary pulse pattern based on
a second band selected from the plurality of second band limited signals, the first band
and the second band being defined by same or substantially overlapping frequency
ranges and the implant is configured to receive the primary pulse pattern and the
secondary pulse pattern from the processing unit. The primary pulse pattern is
configured to stimulate a cochlea of a user of the cochlear implant system during a first
time slot, and the secondary pulse pattern is configured to stimulate the cochlea of the
user of the cochlear implant system during a second time slot. The first time slot and the
second time slot are sequential time slots.
(Figure 7 is to be published)

                            5/7
                                                       C)
                                                       C)
                                             I    IN
                   01
           CU)
          UU)
               0-J
                   _r        U)                                    l
   CU)
       -.             U)
            U)               U)    w
                                                         4-      (
                         Cr
 0                                                      4--LJ
U)                       r    -J
                                 I   -J
                                          \I        II
                                                 -c
                                         U)    _
                                     CD.0
                                                              wL

                                               1
TITLE
      "Cochlear Implant System for Processing Multiple Sound Source Information"
FIELD
The disclosure relates to a cochlear implant system. In particular, the disclosure relates
to a cochlear implant system configured to present information to a user of the cochlear
implant system when sound is received from multiple sound sources. The disclosure
further relates to the cochlear implant system comprising a bilateral cochlear implant
system where information comprising different properties (such as spatial cues) from
multiple sound sources is presented to the user.
BACKGROUND
Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for
the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present
invention, and is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms
part of the common general knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the
priority date of the application in relation to which this specification has been filed.
A cochlear implant (CI) is a surgically implanted electronic device that provides a
perception of sound to a person having a hearing impairment. In some people, cochlear
implants may enable sufficient hearing for better understanding of speech. The quality
of sound is different from natural hearing, with less sound information being received
and processed by the brain. Conventionally, the information received from a single
sound source is presented to the user. Until now, no attempt has been made to provide
information from multiple sound sources to the CI user. This results in the CI user
missing out on an auditory experience that is more natural.
Implanting both cochleas of hearing-impaired listeners with cochlear implants (referred
to as bilateral cochlear implants) has become more common in recent years. Using
binaural hearing in normal hearing listeners, i.e. where input along the auditory pathway
after both ears are presented with the sound are integrated, boosts a person's ability to

                                                2
focus on speech in noisy situations, and allows a person to tune into sounds that are
even low in level compared with the competing noise. There is thus a need for an
effective system and method for providing these binaural benefits to hearing-impaired
subjects, such as those subject that have bilateral cochlear implants.
Improving quality of life for CI users such as by prioritizing improving speech
intelligibility in noise, sound localization, and pitch discrimination may require new
types of information to be sent to and output by the CI implant.
One such new type of information that would help the CI users are spatial cues, i.e.
synchronized information between the two ears. There are two main spatial cues for
localizing sound in a plane of azimuth, i.e. angle of a sound source on the horizon
relative to a point in the center of the head between the ears, namely (i) interaural time
differences (ITDs), and (ii) interaural level differences (ILDs). ILDs are primarily a
high-frequency cue, and occur because the listener's head shadowing the sound at the
ear contralateral with respect to a sound source. Acoustically ITDs exist at all
frequencies, however, normal hearing humans are typically most sensitive to ITDs at
500-900 Hz. In existing cochlear implant systems, the ITDs are not well-coded. It is
expected that including such timing information will enhance spatial sound perception.
In an auditory environment (auditory scene) containing multiple sound sources (talkers
or other sources of sound), an individual receives a mixed signal from multiple sound
sources. Individual with normal hearing is capable of un-mixing the mixed signal and
utilize the spatial cues from multiple sound sources along with neural machinery for
sound localization and to improve speech intelligibility in the auditory scene.
In a bilateral cochlear implant system comprising microphone(s) for receiving sound
from the auditory scene, multiple sounds comprising different properties such as spatial
cues are combined at the microphone(s). Unfortunately, users of bilateral cochlear
implant system are unable to un-mix the mixed signal received at the microphone(s).
Even if the mixed signal is resolved into different unmixed signals, presentation of the
un-mixed signals separately to a CIS user is a challenge, thereby limiting information

                                              3
transfer from multiple sound sources.
The disclosure offers a solution that allows for presenting information corresponding to
separated distinct sound sources. Such information may include different spatial cues
specific to each sound source.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
A cochlear implant (CI) is a surgically-implanted prosthetic device that provides
profoundly deaf with sensations of sound. A cochlear implant typically includes an
external part that usually sits behind the ear and a second part (implant) that is
surgically placed under the skin.
The external part usually includes a) a microphone for picking up the sound signal from
the user's environment and generating the incoming microphone signal. The
microphone may be placed at the ear or in the vicinity such as behind the ear, in the ear
or canal, etc. b) a speech processor selects and processes sounds picked up by the
microphone. The speech processor may include the filterbank, processing unit,
determination unit, memory etc. and optionally c) a transmitter for transmitting
processed microphone signal data such as the data like pulse pattern for generating
implant electrode stimulation output. The second part usually includes a) an implantable
receiver for receiving the transmitted stimulation data; b) an implanted stimulator such
as a pulse generator, which allows the received stimulation data after processing such as
charge mapping to be directed towards cochlea. In some embodiments, the data is sent
using a series of stimulation pulse. The stimulator may also include a memory, and c) an
electrode array comprising a group of electrodes implanted at specific insertion depths
in the cochlea such that electrode position within the cochlea replicate or substantially
replicate place-frequency mapping along length of cochlea of normal hearing. The
electrodes receive the stimulation pulse corresponding to a particular frequency from
the stimulator and send impulses via corresponding electrodes and subsequently by way
of the auditory nerve to the brain, which recognizes the signals as sound.

                                                  4
The skilled person would appreciate that possible modifications in this generally
described CI is possible. For example, a fully implantable CI where all components are
implanted in the recipient/ user of the cochlear implant is also possible. In this set up, a
power source in the fully implantable CI may be inductively charged from outside of
the CI recipient. In another example, fully implantable CI may still have the
microphones in the external part in order to have better sound capturing capabilities
compared to the microphones that are surgically implanted.
The bilateral cochlear implant system includes two implants - one positioned at each ear
i.e. a left cochlear implant, and a right cochlear implant. In one embodiment, the left CI
and right CI includes separate speech processors. However, in another embodiment, the
left CI and the right CI share a common speech processor except for the microphones
and their positioning. In both embodiments with separate or common speech processor,
microphones relating to each ear are positioned at or in the vicinity of the respective ear,
for example, a first microphone receiving sound arriving at the left ear and a second
microphone receiving sound arriving at the right ear. The incoming microphone signals
from microphones or microphone arrays positioned at each ear are provided to the
respective speech processor, which may be a common speech processor. Similarly, the
left CI and the right CI may also include separate or common implantable receiver.
According to an embodiment, a cochlear implant system is disclosed. The system
includes an input unit, a filterbank, a processing unit and an implant. The input unit is
configured to provide a first electrical signal from a first sound source and a second
electrical signal from a second sound source. The filterbank is configured to filter the
first electrical signal into a plurality of first band limited signals and the second
electrical signal into a plurality of second band limited signals. The processing unit is
configured to generate a primary pulse pattern based on a first band selected from the
plurality of first band limited signals and to generate a secondary pulse pattern based on
a second band selected from the plurality of second band limited signals, the first band
and the second band being defined by same or substantially overlapping frequency
ranges and the implant is configured to receive the primary pulse pattern and the
secondary pulse pattern from the processing unit. The primary pulse pattern is

                                              5
configured to stimulate a cochlea of a user of the cochlear implant system during a first
time slot, and the secondary pulse pattern is configured to stimulate the cochlea of the
user of the cochlear implant system during a second time slot. The first time slot and the
second time slot are sequential time slots.
According to an embodiment, the implant is configured to generate the primary
stimulation pulse in accordance with the received primary pulse pattern and a secondary
stimulation pulse in accordance with the received secondary pulse pattern. The
stimulation of the cochlear is based on the primary stimulation pulse during the first
time slot and the second stimulation pulse during the second time slot.
The pulse pattern may be understood as bits of information that are transferred from
processing unit to the implant, typically using an inductive link. The stimulation pulse
may be understood as the charge pulse, define by electric charge amount, generated
based on the received bit of information, that is delivered from the implant to the
electrode of the implantable electrode array.
In one embodiment, the first time slot and the second time slot are sequentially
comprised in a time window. The time window includes a predefined time duration
during which an electrode of an electrode array implantable in the cochlea is configured
to stimulate an auditory nerve. Each electrode in the electrode array represents a
specific frequency channel corresponding to the first band and second band. Such
association with a specific frequency channel is usually in accordance with the place
frequency mapping along length of the cochlea.
According to a further embodiment, a plurality of time windows are comprised in a time
frame during which one cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is completed. Each time
window of the plurality of time windows corresponds to a specific frequency channel
assigned to a specific electrode of the electrode array. Each time window comprises
sequential time slots during which stimulation corresponding to the first sound source
and second sound source for the specific frequency channel is sequentially provided
such that the time slots across the time windows are provided in an interleaved manner.

                                              6
The time frame is followed by a subsequent time frame during which a subsequent
cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is completed.
Therefore, the above disclosed embodiment describes a stimulation strategy utilizing a
time frame comprising a plurality of time windows individually assigned to each
electrode. The electrode corresponds to a specific frequency channel and are configured
to be activated in response to presence of frequency specific content. Each time window
comprises sequential time slots during which stimulation corresponding to the first
sound source and second sound source for the specific frequency channel is sequentially
provided. Thus, a time frame includes interleaved time slots during which electrodes are
activated in response to frequency specific content available from multiple sound
sources, such as the first sound source and the second sound source.
Utilizing the above mentioned stimulation strategy allows for providing information
from multiple sound sources to the user of the cochlear implant system.
The time frame may be defined as a time period during which all data defining one
stimulus pulse is utilized to stimulate the cochlea. One stimulus pulse comprises a
plurality of stimulation pulses, representing frequency content of the sound within the
time period, across all the electrodes of the electrode array. As generation of the
plurality of stimulation pulses is a function of sound content available in the time
period, it is understandable that during a particular time frame, only the electrodes
corresponding to frequencies having content get activated. Thus, the cycle of
stimulation is defined by the stimulus pulse activating electrode corresponding to
frequencies having content in assigned time window starting from time window 1
through time window n (for an electrode array having n electrodes) . This is repeated
again for a subsequent time frame in a subsequent cycle of stimulation. It is apparent
that the subsequent time frame includes a plurality of subsequent time windows with
each subsequent time window comprising a subsequent interleaved time slots.
It is apparent that during a specific time window, utilization of a time slot to activate an
electrode is subject to availability of frequency specific content relating to the frequency

                                                7
channel associated with the electrode. Therefore, in one embodiment, none of the time
slots is utilized for activating an electrode, if no data is available from any sound source
in the frequency channel associated with the time window containing the time slots, the
frequency channel being associated with the electrode. In another embodiment, only a
few of the time slots are utilized for activating the electrode, if data available is only
from a few sound sources in the frequency channel associated with the time window
containing the time slots. In yet another embodiment, all the time slots are utilized for
activating the electrode, if data available is from all sound sources such as the first or
second sound sources in the frequency channel associated with the time window
containing the time slots.
In an embodiment, the input unit includes a microphone configured to receive a mixed
electrical signal from the first sound source and the second sound source. Because the
sound from the first sound source and the second sound source reaches the microphone,
the microphone generates a mixed signal comprising the sound received from the first
sound source and the second sound source. The microphone may include a microphone
array that is configured to utilize a beamforming algorithm for beamsteering. In general,
such beamforming algorithms involve processing the mixed signal from the
microphones array in such a way that the array acts as a highly directional microphone.
In its simple version, it enhances signals from the front and suppresses signals from
other directions. In a more sophisticated version, the enhancement direction can be set
to the direction of the target sound "steering beamformer". In other words,
beamforming provides a "listening beam" which points to, through e.g. beamsteering,
the extracted direction of arrival, and receives, a particular sound source (dominant
sound) while attenuating other sounds and noise, including, for example, reflections,
reverberations, interference, and sounds or noise coming from other directions or points
outside the primary beam. Various direction enhancement beamforming algorithms may
be employed in order to improve quality of microphone signal of interest received from
the dominant sound source. These algorithms may include, but not limited to,
generalized sidelobe canceller (GSC), minimum variance distortionless response
(MVDR), robust MVDR, or any other beamforming algorithm. Utilizing such
beamforming algorithm based signal extraction techniques allows for creating favorable

                                                8
versions of microphone signal while at the same time attenuate or cancel other
unwanted source signals received by the microphone array. Utilizing the direction of
arrival information allows the setting of a steering direction and the binaural input
allows a very efficient noise reduction with high directivity. For example, steering the
beamformer towards target sound such e.g., from behind the user, in front of the user, or
at the side of a user, e.g., in a car-cabin situation.
In the disclosure, the beam may be directed towards the dominant sound for example
sound received from the first sound source and the microphone array is further
configured to receive the sound from the other sound source. In this case, the mix signal
represents the sound not only from the target sound source for example from a speaker
but also from other sound source such as background music.
In an embodiment, in response to receiving the mixed signal from the microphone, a
resolution unit comprised in the cochlear implant system is configured to unmix the
mixed electrical signal into the first electrical signal and the second electrical signal.
The resolution unit may be configured to include source separation algorithm such that
dominant sound and direction of arrival for sounds from multiple sources may be
identified. The resolution unit is further configured to utilize the direction of arrival of
sounds from the first sound source and the second sound source to unmix the mixed
signal into the first electrical signal and the second electrical signal.
In one embodiment, the dominant sound source is identified by slicing the auditory
scene surrounding the user into angular subspaces. A target signal detection and/or a
voice activity detection on a respective spatial sound signal is performed, the spatial
sound signal being generated by a spatial filter that divides sound received from the
auditory scene in subspaces. Assuming the target signal to be present in a given
subspace, the spatial sound signal of that subspace may have an improved target signal
to-noise signal ratio compared to sound signals which include the total space (i.e. the
complete surrounding of a user), or other subspaces (not including the sound source in
question). Further, the detection of several sound sources, e.g., talkers in different
subspaces may be possible by running voice activity detection in parallel in the different

                                               9
subspaces. There are other techniques that may be implemented in the source separation
algorithm, which are described later in the description.
According to another embodiment, which may be combined with the cochlear system
described above, a cochlear implant system comprising a bilateral cochlear implant
system is disclosed. The system includes a first microphone, a second microphone, a
resolution unit, a processing unit and an implant including a pulse generator. The first
microphone is configured to be positioned at or in vicinity of a first ear of the user. The
first microphone is further configured to generate a first mixed electrical signal in
response to receiving a sound from a first sound source and a sound from a second
sound source. The second microphone is configured to be positioned at or vicinity of a
second ear of the user. The second microphone is further configured to generate a
second mixed electrical signal in response to receiving the sound from the first sound
source and the sound from the second sound source. The resolution unit is configured to
unmix the first mixed electrical signal into a first primary signal and a second primary
signal and to unmix the second mixed electrical signal into first secondary signal and a
second secondary signal. The first primary signal and the second primary signal
correspond to the sound received from the first sound source at the first microphone and
the second microphone respectively. The first secondary signal and the second
secondary signal correspond to the sound received from the second sound source at the
first microphone and the second microphone respectively. The processing unit is
configured to generate a first pulse pattern and a second pulse pattern. The first pulse
pattern includes i) a first primary pulse pattern corresponding to the first primary signal,
and ii) a first secondary pulse pattern corresponding to the first secondary signal. The
second pulse pattern comprising i) a secondary primary pulse pattern corresponding to
the second primary signal, and ii) a second secondary pulse pattern corresponding to the
second secondary signal. The pulse generator is configured to generate a first primary
stimulation pulse, a first secondary stimulation pulse, a second primary stimulation
pulse and a second secondary stimulation pulse. The first primary stimulation pulse is
based on the first primary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the first time slot, a first
cochlea corresponding to the first ear. The first secondary stimulation pulse is based on
the first secondary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the first time slot, a second

                                               10
cochlea corresponding to the second ear. The second primary stimulation pulse is based
on the second primary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the second time slot, the first
cochlea corresponding to the first ear. The second secondary stimulation pulse is based
on the second secondary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the second time slot, the
second cochlea corresponding to the second ear.
According to an embodiment, the first microphone is configured to receive sounds from
the first sound source and the second sound source simultaneously; and the second
microphone is configured to receive sounds from the first sound source and the second
sound source simultaneously. The first microphone and the second microphone may
include individual microphone arrays that are individually configured to utilize the
beamforming algorithms, thus allowing listening beam to be directed towards a
dominant source while still receiving sound from the other sound source resulting in a
mixed signal as received from the first sound source and the second sound source at a
microphone.
The resolution unit may be configured to estimate direction of arrival from the first
sound source and the second sound source in order to unmix the signals. In an
embodiment, estimating the direction of arrival relies on combining microphone output
signals from the left and right sides of the head to determine the delay between sounds
present in the microphone outputs. When sounds emanate from the medial (front or
rear) region of the wearer, there is little delay between the microphone output signals.
However, this delay increases with increase in the angle of the sound source relative to
the medial region. The delay increases from the medial region to either lateral region.
This monotonic increase may be translated into direction of arrival of sounds with
reference to the midline location between both ears. In another embodiment, the
estimation technique relies on the shadowing effect of the human head. The head casts a
shadowing effect for sounds located on opposite sides of the head. Due to this head
shadowing effect, there may be noticeable level differences (in dB) between
microphone output signals. The level difference increases as the sound source moves
from the midline location between both ears to side. These two basic mechanisms may
be used in direction of arrival algorithm estimation. For example, one such

                                              11
implementation for estimating the direction of arrival of a sound includes the steps of a)
forming a reference signal, b) detecting sound with two or more spatially separated,
directional or spatially separated directional, microphones to produce two or more
output signals, c) calculating the relationships between each of the two or more output
signals and the reference signal; and d) estimating the direction of arrival based on
differences between the relationships. The reference signal may be formed by detecting
sound with a dedicated reference signal microphone, which may be formed by way of a
beamformer technique. The differences in the relationships may include the step of
calculating interaural time differences, using a time correlation technique. The
differences in the relationships may include the step of calculating interaural level
differences using power difference measures. The step of calculating the relationships
may be carried out across multiple frequency channels.
Numerous techniques are known where left and right microphone signals is compared
to derive a direction of arrival estimate. These techniques include; Correlation,
Maximum Likelihood (covariance minimisation), Multiple Signal Classification
(MUSIC), Estimation of Signal Parameters using Rotational Invariance Techniques
(ESPRIT) or Eigen decomposition, and Matrix pencil using an array manifold or
triangulation. An example includes a known technique for direction of arrival, which
relies on sensory microphone arrays whereby the cross-correlation between the
microphone output signals is calculated to determine the delay at which the maximum
output power or peak occurs. Thus, the estimates reflect the direction of arrival of
dominant sounds.
Many other known techniques are also disccused in cf. e.g. BELL, A.J. et al. An
information maximisation approachto blind separationand blind deconvolution.
Neural Computation, 1995, vol. 7 (6), 1129-1159; Jourjine, A. et al., Blind separationof
disjointorthogonal signals:Demixing N sources from 2 mixtures. IEEE International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP 00), vol. 5, pp.
2985-2988, June 2000; ROWEIS, S.T. One Microphone Source Separation.Advances
in neural information processing systems, 2001, 793-799; PEDERSEN, M.S. et al. A
survey of convolutive blind source separationmethods. Springer Handbook of Speech

                                                12
Processing. Springer, 2008, 1065-1094; BOLDT, J.B.et al. Estimation of the ideal
binary mask using directionalsystems. IWAENC 2008, [Boldt et al., 2008] or
combinations hereof, cf. e.g. PEDERSEN, M.S. et al. Separating Underdetermined
Convolutive Speech Mixtures. ICA 2006, 2006, and [Boldt et al., 2008] PEREZ
LORENZO et al. Evaluation of generalized cross-correlationmethod for direction of
arrival estimation using two microphone in real environments. 08/2012, 73(8), Applied
Acoustics (2012); PAULOSE et al. Acoustic Source Localization. Intl. Journal of
Advanced Research in Electrical, Electronic and Instrumentation Engg. Vo. 2, Issue 2,
Feb 2013. Additional techniques for source separation is described in European Patent
applications EP2192794 and EP 2563045.
In an embodiment, the cochlear implant system includes the filterbank configured to
filter the first primary signal into a plurality of first primary band limited signals, the
first secondary signal into a plurality of first secondary band limited signals, the second
primary electrical signal into a plurality of second primary band limited signals and the
second secondary signal into a plurality of second secondary band limited signals. The
first pulse pattern and second pulse pattern is generated for corresponding bands,
defined by same or substantially overlapping frequency ranges. The corresponding
bands are selected from the plurality of first primary band limited signals, plurality of
first secondary band limited signals, plurality of second primary band limited signals,
and plurality of second secondary band limited signals respectively.
In an embodiment, the first time slot and the second time slot are sequentially
comprised in a time window. The time window includes a predefined time duration
during which stimulation for a specific frequency channel, defined by the corresponding
bands, using a first electrode array implantable in the first cochlea for stimulating the
first cochlea and a second electrode array implantable in the second cochlea for
stimulating the second cochlea is provided.
According to an embodiment, a plurality of time windows are comprised in a time
frame during which one cycle of auditory nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the
second cochlea is completed. Each time window of the plurality of time windows

                                             13
corresponds to a specific frequency channel assigned to a specific binaural electrode
pair comprising pairing of an electrode of first electrode array with an electrode of the
second electrode array. Each time window comprises sequential time slots during which
stimulation corresponding to the first sound source and second sound source for the
specific frequency channel is sequentially provided such that the time slots across the
time windows are provided in an interleaved manner. Furthermore, the time frame is
followed by a subsequent time frame during which a subsequent cycle of the auditory
nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the second cochlea is completed. Thus, a time
frame would include interleaved time slots during which electrodes are activated in
response to frequency specific content available from multiple sound sources, such as
the first sound source and the second sound source.
According to an embodiment, the cochlear implant system further includes a transmitter
and an implantable receiver. The transmitter is configured to transmit i) the first pulse
pattern and the second pulse pattern from the processing unit to the implant within the
time window, or ii) alternatively transmit the first pulse pattern in the first time slot and
the second pulse pattern in the second time slot from the processing unit to the implant.
The receiver is configured to receive the first pulse pattern and the second pulse pattern
within the time window, or ii) alternatively receive the first pulse pattern in the first
time slot and the second pulse pattern in the second time slot.
According to an embodiment, the processing unit further includes a determination unit.
The determination unit is configured to determine at least one of a primary interaural
difference between the first primary signal and second primary signal. The primary
interaural difference comprising at least one of primary interaural time difference and
primary interaural level difference. The determination unit is further configured to
determine a secondary interaural difference between the first secondary signal and
second secondary signal. The secondary interaural difference comprising at least one of
secondary interaural time difference and secondary interaural level difference.

                                               14
In different embodiments, the interaural differences are dependent upon the determined
direction of arrival of sound. The interaural difference may also include a modified
interaural difference, an artificial interaural difference.
In an embodiment, the interaural difference comprises an interaural time difference
(ITD) and/or an interaural level difference (ILD). Depending on the direction of arrival,
the sound may arrive earlier at one ear of an individual than the other ear. This
difference in time between when the sound arrives at one ear versus the other is referred
to as the interaural time difference (ITD). The ILD is the difference in level (intensity)
between a sound arriving at one ear versus the other, i.e. sound having higher level at
ear closer to the sound source.
This may include using the determination unit comprising a level detector, as known in
the art, that is configured to determine a first level of the one of the band limited signal
from first microphone, a second level of the one of the band limited signal from the
second microphone, and a level difference between the first level and second level
individually for each sound source.
Additionally or alternatively, the ITD may be calculated as a difference between time
of-arrival of the sound at the first microphone and time-of-arrival of sound at the second
microphone individually for each sound source. Alternatively, once the direction of
arrival of the sound is extracted, the ITD may be computed by calculating the time of
arrival of the sound at one of the microphone and utilizing a head related transfer
function to estimate arrival time of the sound at another microphone or microphone
array. This may be performed for at least one frequency band of related band limited
unmixed microphone signals of the first microphone and second microphone signal.
Other conventionally known techniques for estimating ITDs may also be employed.
In another embodiment, the the modified interaural difference includes a modified
interaural time difference (mITD) and/or a modified interuaral level difference (mILD)
for at least one of the sound, represented by one of the unmixed signals, received from a
sound source. The modified interaural difference may be obtained by modifying the

                                                15
interaural difference. Such modifications may include at least one of amplifying the
interaural difference, frequency shifting the interaural difference, representing the ITD
as an ILD or representing the ILD as an ITD. For example, the amplification of the
interaural difference may include increasing the delay between the onset time for
activating an electrode of an electrode array and onset time for activating an electrode of
the another electrode array compared to the determined ITD. Similarly, amplification
may include increasing magnitude of the level difference as represented by increased
difference in stimulation charges of the stimulation pulses compared to difference in
electric charge that is based on the determined ILD. In other modifications such as in
frequency transposition, the determined interaural difference, for example the ILD may
be transposed to a lower frequency with or without amplification. The other listed
modifications would be apparent to the skilled person and no further explanation is
provided.
In yet another embodiment, the artificial interaural difference comprises an artificial
interaural time difference (aITD) and/ or an artificial interaural level difference (aILD)
for at least one of the sound, represented by one of the unmixed signals, received from a
sound source. Based on the direction of arrival of the sound, the artificial interaural
difference may include a predetermined or dynamically selected value that allows for
localizing the sound. It is apparent that once the direction of arrival of the sound is
extracted, the ear closer to and the ear farther away from the major source is known.
Also, it is understandable that the ear closer to the major source may have a higher
signal level relative to that of the ear farther away from the major source. Similarly,
arrival of the sound at the ear closer to the major source will be earlier than that of the
ear farther away from the major source. Hence, in an embodiment, the predetermined
selected value may include a value such as X db interaural level difference and/ or Y ps
interaural time difference between the two ears. These predetermined values may also
be frequency band specific and sound source specific.
In an embodiment, the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the first
primary pulse pattern with the primary interaural difference incorporated therein, and

                                              16
the second secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the second primary pulse
pattern with the secondary interaural difference incorporated therein.
In an embodiment, the first secondary pulse pattern comprises the primary interaural
difference information and the secondary pulse pattern comprises the secondary
interaural difference information. Furthermore, the pulse generator is configured to i)
generate a copy of the first primary pulse pattern, incorporate the primary interaural
difference, and generate the first secondary stimulation pulse based on the copy of the
first primary pulse pattern incorporating the primary interaural difference, and ii)
generate a copy of the second primary pulse pattern, incorporate the secondary
interaural difference, and generate the second secondary stimulation pulse based on the
copy of the second primary pulse pattern incorporating the secondary interaural
difference.
According to the preceding embodiments requiring incorporation of the interaural
differences in the copies of the first primary pulse pattern and second primary pulse
pattern, incorporation includes increasing or decreasing stimulation level of the copy of
the primary pulse patterns relative to stimulation level of the primary pulse patterns
according to the determined ILD/modified ILD/ artificial ILD for each sound source
respectively. Such incorporation may also include a scenario where instead of
modifying the level of the copy of the primary pulse patterns in accordance with the
determined ILD/modified ILD/ artificial ILD, the electric change of the secondary
stimulation pulse is set in accordance with the determined ILD/modified ILD/ artificial
ILD and mapping function without the need to first modifying the level in the copy of
primary pulse patterns.
According to the preceding embodiments requiring incorporation of the interaural
differences in the copies of the first primary pulse pattern and second primary pulse
pattern, incorporation includes associating early-activation or delayed-activation
information, based on for example as the determined ITD/ modified ITD/ artificial ITD
information, with the copy of the primary pulse patterns and specific to individual
sound sources. For example, such information may be associated with arrival times of

                                               17
the primary pulse patterns and the secondary pulse patterns at the implant within the
sound source specific time slots, wherein the difference in arrival times represent the
determined ITD/ modified ITD/ artificial ITD information (described later). Thus,
corresponding electrodes of two electrode arrays individually implanted in respective
cochlea of the first ear and second ear are activated in accordance with a timing
difference, as defined by the timing information that may include determined ITD/
modified ITD/ artificial ITD.
In yet another embodiment, incorporation of the interaural difference includes a
combination of earlier recited two embodiments describing level difference information
and timing difference information.
In an embodiment, i) the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the first
primary pulse pattern with the primary interaural level difference incorporated therein,
and ii) within the first time slot, the processing unit is configured to align transmission
of the first primary pulse pattern and first secondary pulse pattern such that a difference
between time of arrival of the first primary pulse pattern and time of arrival of the first
secondary pulse pattern at the receiver represents the primary interaural time difference.
Additionally or alternatively, the second secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of
the second primary pulse pattern with the secondary interaural level difference
incorporated therein; and ii) within the second time slot, the processing unit is
configured to align transmission of the second primary pulse pattern and the second
secondary pulse pattern such that a difference between time of arrival of the second
primary pulse pattern and time of arrival of the second secondary pulse pattern at the
receiver represents the secondary interaural time difference.
In one embodiment, a difference between a primary arrival time of the primary pulse
pattern and a secondary arrival time of the secondary pulse pattern for each sound
within assigned time slot at the receiver determines the activation times of an electrode
of the electrode array and a corresponding electrode of the another electrode array
respectively, the difference representing the ITD or mITD or aITD.

                                              18
Thus, the delay in activation of the electrodes of two electrode arrays may be
implemented simply by an improved transmission method, where the arrival times of
the pulse patterns determines a reference time for activating the primary electrode and a
delay relative to the reference time, for example the artificial ITD, in receipt of the
secondary pulse pattern or copy of primary secondary pulse pattern. Thus, the data to be
transmitted is reduced by expressing desired electrode output timing data as the arrival
time of a data message at the implant receiver. Thus, no bits are required to be included
in a packet message to provide providing relative activation timing data in the data
packet during the transmission. In order to produce proper timing cue, it is apparent that
the processing time of the received primary pulse pattern and secondary pulse pattern is
accounted for at the second part when utilizing this technique. Usually, the reference
time may either follow directly after the processing delay or may be provided after a
headroom that is provided after the processing delay. In another implementation, the
aITD and/ or aILD may be included in a data packet that is transmitted from the
processor.
According to an embodiment, an electrode of the first electrode array and an electrode
of the second electrode array defined by same of substantially overlapping frequency
ranges form a binaural electrode pair. One electrode of the pair is pre-classified or
dynamically assigned as a master electrode and another electrode as a slave electrode.
The pulse generator may be configured to access the binaural electrode pair
information, from a memory, comprising pairing of an electrode of an electrode array
with an electrode of the another electrode array, wherein one electrode of the pair is a
master electrode and another electrode is a slave electrode. At least one of the first time
slot includes a first headroom immediately prior to a first reference time comprised
within the first time slot and the second time slot includes a second headroom
immediately prior to a second reference time comprised within the second time slot. For
each time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the interaural time difference
relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural time difference is positive,
the master electrode is activated at a reference time prior to the slave electrode. For each
time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the interaural time difference
relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural time difference is negative,

                                               19
i) the slave electrode is activated prior to the master electrode such that the master
electrode is activated at the first reference time and the slave electrode is activated
utilizing the first headroom for stimulation based on the first primary stimulation pulse
and first secondary stimulation pulse and ii) the slave electrode is activated prior to the
master electrode such that the master electrode is activated at the second reference time
and the slave electrode is activated utilizing the second headroom for stimulation based
on the second primary stimulation pulse and second secondary stimulation pulse.
Alternatively, for each time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the
interaural time difference relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural
time difference is negative, the master electrode is reassigned as a slave electrode and
the slave electrode is reassigned as a master electrode, such that the reassigned master
electrode is activated at the reference time and prior to the reassigned slave electrode
without need of the headroom.
In an embodiment, for each binaural electrode pair during at least one of the first time
slot and second time slot, the implant is configured to specify the interaural level
difference relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural level difference
is positive, the master electrode is activated with a higher electric charge compared to
the correspondingly paired slave electrode and when the interaural level difference is
negative, the slave electrode of the accessed binaural pair is activated with a higher
electric charge compared to the correspondingly paired master electrode.
According to an embodiment, the processing unit is configured to control transmission
rate of the pulse patterns from the transmitter to receiver such that the primary pulse
pattern and the secondary pulse pattern, or the first pulse pattern and second pulse
pattern are transmitted sequentially within the time window comprising the first slot and
second slot.
According to an embodiment, the processing unit is configured to determine whether
the first band and second band include low frequencies. In another embodiment, the
processing unit is configured to determine whether at least one of i) the first primary
band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and ii) the second primary

                                              20
band limited signal and a second secondary band limited signal include low frequencies.
In both these embodiments, the processing unit is configured to generate stimulation
pulse patterns corresponding to at least one of i) both the first band and second band, ii)
both the first primary band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and
iii) both the second primary band limited signal and a second secondary band limited
signal at a generation rate that is lower than a frame rate in response to identification of
the band(s)/ band limited signal(s) and second band include low frequencies. The frame
rate is defined by repetition of the time frames, i.e. frequency of cycle of stimulation. In
other words, for low frequency band(s)/ band limited signal(s), the processing unit is
configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns in time frames that are separated by
other time frames where the processing unit is configured to be prevented from
generating the stimulation pulse patterns. Thus, the implant is configured to generate
and deliver stimulation pulse based on the generated stimulation pulse patterns only in a
few time frames, i.e. not in all time frames. Typically, the low frequency include
frequencies same or lower than 1000 Hz and the rate of generation of stimulation pulse
is usually defined by centre frequency of the band.
According to an embodiment, the processing unit is configured to determine whether
the first band and second band include high frequencies. In another embodiment, the
processing unit is configured to determine whether at least one of i) the first primary
band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and ii) the second primary
band limited signal and a second secondary band limited signal include high
frequencies. In both these embodiments, the processing unit is configured to generate
stimulation pulse patterns corresponding to at least one of i) both the first band and
second band, ii) both the first primary band limited signal, and first secondary band
limited signal, and iii) both the second primary band limited signal and a second
secondary band limited signal at a generation rate that is same as the frame rate in
response to identification of the band(s)/ band limited signal(s) include high
frequencies. The frame rate is defined by repetition of the time frames, i.e. frequency of
cycle of stimulation. In other words, for high frequency band(s)/ band limited signal(s),
the processing unit is configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns in each time
frame. Thus, the implant is configured to generate and deliver stimulation pulse based

                                              21
on the generated stimulation pulse patterns in all time frames. Typically, the high
frequency include frequencies above than 1000 Hz.
According to an embodiment, the above two preceding embodiments addressing low
frequency and high frequency are combinable. The processing unit is configured to
determine whether the first band and second band include low frequencies or high
frequencies. In another embodiment, the processing unit is configured to determine
whether at least one of i) the first primary band limited signal, and first secondary band
limited signal, and ii) the second primary band limited signal and a second secondary
band limited signal include low frequencies or high frequencies. The processing unit is
configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns corresponding to at least one of i) both
the first band and second band, ii) both the first primary band limited signal, and first
secondary band limited signal, and iii) both the second primary band limited signal and
a second secondary band limited signal at a generation rate that is same as the frame
rate in response to identification of the band(s)/ band limited signal(s) include high
frequencies. The processing unit is configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns
corresponding to at least one of i) both the first band and second band, ii) both the first
primary band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and iii) both the
second primary band limited signal and a second secondary band limited signal at a
generation rate that is lower than a frame rate in response to identification of the
band(s)/ band limited signal(s) and second band include low frequencies. Thus, the
implant is configured to generate and deliver stimulation pulses based on the generated
stimulation pulse patterns in all time frames for high frequencies and only in a few time
frames for low frequencies. For example, for low frequency band 100 Hz - 200 Hz, the
generation rate may be 100 Hz whereas for a high frequency band 2800 Hz - 3500 Hz,
the generation rate may be 1000 Hz. Thus, the generation rate for generating stimulation
pulse patterns for high frequencies is 10 times than the generation rate for generating
stimulation pulse patterns of low frequencies. In other words, the stimulation pulse
pattern for high frequencies is generated for each of 10 time frames, then the stimulation
pulse pattern for low frequencies is generated only in one time frame per 10 time
frames.

                                              22
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
The aspects of the disclosure may be best understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures. The figures are
schematic and simplified for clarity, and they just show details to improve the
understanding of the claims, while other details are left out. The individual features of
each aspect may each be combined with any or all features of the other aspects. These
and other aspects, features and/or technical effect will be apparent from and elucidated
with reference to the illustrations described hereinafter in which:
Fig. 1 illustrates a cochlear implant system according to an embodiment of the
disclosure;
Fig. 2 illustrates interleaved time slots across a plurality of time windows according to
an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 3 illustrates a CI user using a cochlear implant system configured to receive sound
from two sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 4 illustrates sequence for delivering stimulation pulses corresponding to multiple
sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 5 illustrates a cochlear implant system comprising a bilateral cochlear implant
system according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 6 a CI user using a cochlear implant system configured to receive sound from two
sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 7 illustrates sequence for delivering stimulation pulses corresponding to multiple
sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 8 illustrates a binaural electrode pair between a master electrode and a slave
electrode according to an embodiment of the disclosure;
Fig. 9A illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = 0 according to an embodiment of the
disclosure;
Fig. 9B illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = +ve according to an embodiment of the
disclosure;
Fig. 9C illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master

                                              23
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = -ve according to an embodiment of the
disclosure; and
Fig. 10 illustrates stimulation rate in accordance with determined frequency band
according to an embodiment of the disclosure.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is
intended as a description of various configurations. The detailed description includes
specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various
concepts. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts
may be practised without these specific details.
According to an embodiment, a cochlear implant system 100 is disclosed. The system
100 includes configured to receive a first sound 106 from a first sound source 102, and a
second sound 108 from a second sound source 104. The first sound source and the
second sound source are usually present in an auditory scene of a user of the cochlear
implant system. The microphone is thus configured to provide a mixed electrical signal
in response to the sound (106 and 108) received from the first sound source 102 and
second sound source 104. The mixed electrical signal comprises a first electrical signal
representing the sound received from the first sound source 102 and a second electrical
signal representing the sound received from the second sound source.
In one embodiment, as illustrated, a filter bank 114 downstream to the microphone 110
is configured to filter the mixed signal into a plurality of band limited signals 116. The
optional beamformer 118 is adapted to produce highly noise reduced signals 120 from
the signal 112 and corresponding band limited signal 116. This is made possible by
utilizing a microphone that may include a microphone array, which is configured to
utilize beamforming algorithm in order to steer the listening beam towards a target
source for example towards source 102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while
still receiving sound from other sound source like source 104. A resolution unit 122 is
configured to unmix the plurality of band limited signals into a plurality of first band
limited signals and a plurality of second band limited signals, wherein the plurality of

                                                24
first band limited signals correspond to the first electrical signal and the plurality of
second band limited signals correspond to the second electrical signal.
In another embodiment, the resolution unit 122 is downstream to the microphone but
upstream to the filter bank 114. Thus, the resolution unit 122 is then configured to
unmix the unmix the mixed electrical signal received from the microphone 110 into the
first electrical signal and the second electrical signal. The filterbank 114 is configured to
receive the first electrical signal and the second electrical signal and to filter the first
electrical signal into a plurality of first band limited signals and the second electrical
signal into a plurality of second band limited signals. The optional beamformer 118 is
adapted to produce highly noise reduced signals 120 from the signal 112 and
corresponding band limited signal. This is made possible by utilizing a microphone that
may include a microphone array, which is configured to utilize beamforming algorithm
in order to steer the listening beam towards a target source for example towards source
102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while still receiving sound from other
sound source like source 104.
The processing unit 128 is configured to receive the plurality of first band limited
signals 126 and the plurality of second band limited signals 128. In one embdodiment,
these band limited signals may be received either from the resolution unit 122 directly
(as illustrate). In alternative embodiment, the band limited signals are received from
filterbank 114/ beamformer 118 if the resolution unit 122 is downstream to the
microphone 110 but upstream to the filterbank 114.
The processing unit 128 is configured to generate a primary pulse pattern 130 based on
a first band selected from the plurality of first band limited signals 124 and to generate a
secondary pulse pattern 132 based on a second band selected from the plurality of
second band limited signals 126. The first band and the second band are defined by
same or substantially overlapping frequency ranges. The system may further include a
transmitter 134 configured to transmit the generated pulse patterns (130, 132) as a
coded data stream 136, typically over an inductive link. An implant 150 comprising a
receiver 138 is configured to receive the primary pulse pattern and the secondary pulse
pattern from the processing unit. The primary pulse pattern 130 is configured to

                                              25
stimulate a cochlea of a user of the cochlear implant system 100 during a first time slot
(202, see Fig. 4), and the secondary pulse pattern 132 is configured to stimulate the
cochlea of the user of the cochlear implant system 100 during a second time slot (204,
see Fig. 4). The first time slot and the second time slot are sequential time slots, as
illustrated as 202 and 204 in Fig. 4. This may be achieved by a pulse generator 140
comprised in the implant 150. The pulse generated is configured to receive the primary
pulse pattern 130 and secondary pulse pattern 132 and to generate a primary stimulation
pulse and a secondary stimulation pulse. The pulse generator 140 is configured to
deliver the primary stimulation pulse 142, during the first time slot (202, see Fig. 4) to
an electrode 148 of an electrode array 146. The electrode 148 corresponds to the
frequency channel representing the frequency range of first band and the second band.
The pulse generator 140 is further configured to deliver the secondary stimulation pulse
144, during the second time slot (204, see Fig. 4) to the electrode 148 of the electrode
array 146. The electrode 148 corresponds to the frequency channel representing the
frequency range of first band and the second band. The disclosed cochlear system is
configured to allow for providing information from multiple sound sources to the user
of a cochlear implant system, thus allowing for improving listening experience of the
user.
The pulse pattern may be understood as bits of information that is transferred from
processing unit to the implant, typically using an inductive link. The stimulation pulse
may be understood as the charge pulse, generated based on the received bits of
information, that is delivered from the implant to the electrode of the implantable
electrode array.
Fig. 2 illustrates interleaved time slots across a plurality of time windows according to
an embodiment of the disclosure. As shown, the first time slot 202 and the second time
slot 204 are sequentially comprised in a time window 206. The time window includes a
predefined time duration (for example, as defined by width of 206) during which an
electrode (such as 148, Fig. 1) of an electrode array implantable in the cochlea is
configured to stimulate an auditory nerve. The electrode is associated with a specific
frequency channel corresponding to the first band and second band. For example, the

                                               26
electrode 148 may be associated with a low frequency channel f 1. Similarly, for other
frequency channels f2, f3, and so on, sequential time slots for each sound source such as
the first sound source and the second sound source are defined. The pulse generator is
configured to provide a sound source specific stimulation for a particular frequency
channel within a specific time slot assigned to the sound source. In this and other
figures, the illustration is provided with a non-limiting example of an electrode array
comprising 20 electrodes, as represented by frequency channels f1, f2.... f20.
According to an embodiment, a plurality of time windows are comprised in a time
frame 208 during which one cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is completed. Each time
window such as 206 of the plurality of time windows corresponds to a specific
frequency channel such as fi assigned to a specific electrode (148, Fig. 1) of the
electrode array (146, Fig. 1). Each time window such as 206 comprises sequential time
slots (202, 204) during which stimulation corresponding to the first sound source (102,
Fig. 1) and second sound source (104, Fig. 2) for the specific frequency channel (such
as f 1) is sequentially provided such that the time slots across the time windows are
provided in an interleaved manner. The time frame 208 is followed by a subsequent
time frame 208'during which a subsequent cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is
completed. The subsequent time frame 208'includes a plurality of frequency channel
specific time windows such as 206', with each time window comprising sequential time
slots such as 202' and 204' in order to provide stimulation corresponding to band
limited signal corresponding to the first sound source (102, Fig. 1) and second sound
source (104, Fig. 1).
Fig. 3 illustrates a CI user using a cochlear implant system configured to receive sound
from two sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure. A user 305
having a cochlear implant system 100 positioned on one side is illustrated. Two sound
sources 102 and 104 are present in the auditory scene of the user 305. The microphone
comprised in the cochlear implant system 100 is configured to receive sounds 106 and
108 from the first sound source 102 and second sound source 104 respectively. The
sound sources 102 and 104 are located at a different location with respect to the user. In
the illustration, it is apparent that the sound from the first sound source 102 would reach

                                               27
the cochlear implant system 100 later than the sound received from the second sound
source 104. The magnitude of sound reaching from the first sound source 102 and the
second sound source 104 is dependent upon individual level and are not inter-related.
Because the sound is received from the first sound source 102 and second sound source
104 at the microphone of the cochlear implant system 100, the microphone is
configured to generate a mixed signal. However, as explained earlier, the resolution unit
(122, Fig. 1) of the cochlear implant system 100 is configured to unmix the mixed
signal into a first electrical signal and second electrical signal. The first electrical signal
and the second electrical signal may be filtered into a plurality of first band limited
signals and second band limited signals respectively. These bands are typically defined
by same of substantially overlapping frequency ranges.
Fig. 4 illustrates sequence for delivering stimulation pulses corresponding to multiple
sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure. The pulse generator (140,
Fig. 1) is configured to generate the primary stimulation pulse (142, Fig. 1) and
secondary stimulation pulse (144, Fig. 1). The pulse generator is further configured to
deliver the primary stimulation pulse 142 and the secondary stimulation pulse 144,
corresponding to a band, to an electrode associated with a frequency channel
representing the band in a first time slot and second time slot respectively. The
stimulation pulse are characterized by electric charge corresponding levels of the
received sound. The conversion of level into electric charge for a specific frequency
channel is a function of a mapping function, which also takes into account threshold (T)
and uncomfortable (C) levels of the user. Such mapping is disclosed in EP patent
application EP3045204 (for example in Figs. 2 - 4), which is incorporated herein by
reference. In the illustration, for a frequency channel f 1, data is available from both the
first sound source and the second sound source. Therefore, the pulse generator is
configured to deliver the first stimulation pulse of charge amount, corresponding to
level LL of the signal received from the first sound source, in the first time slot 202. The
pulse generator is configured to deliver the second stimulation pulse of charge amount,
corresponding to level LR of the signal received from the second sound source, in the
second time slot 204. However, generation and delivery of the stimulation pulse is a
function of whether sound from a particular sound source is available in a certain

                                              28
frequency channel. For example, for frequency channel f2, there is audio content in the
sound received from the first sound source and not from the second sound source.
Therefore, the stimulation pulse is represented only for the first sound source. Similarly,
if the audio content is only available for the second sound source for a specific
frequency channel, the stimulation pulse is generated and delivered only for that sound
source, as illustrate for frequency channel f3.
RTL and RTR represents the reference times for each time slot, i.e. the starting point of
the first time slot and the second time slot or reference point based on which timing
information is provided. The pulse generator may be configured to provide sound
source proximity information to the cochlear implant system by utilizing relative timing
information for each sound source in relation to respective reference time. The pulse
generator is configured to utilize time gap between respective reference time and
delivery of respective stimulation pulse in the assigned time slot to represent the
proximity. For example, sound source 104 is closer to the CI system than the sound
source 102. Therefore, time t from respective reference point RTR for the second source
102 is shorter than T, which represents time T from respective reference point RTL. SL
and SR represents the time slots assigned to the first sound source 102 and second
sound source 104 respectively.
Fig. 5 illustrates a cochlear implant system comprising a bilateral cochlear implant
system according to an embodiment of the disclosure. The bilateral cochlear implant
system 100' includes a first microphone 110 configured to be positioned at or in vicinity
of a first ear of the user and a second microphone 110' configured to be positioned at or
vicinity of a second ear of the user. The first microphone is configured to receive sound
(106, 108) from a first sound source 102 and a second sound source 104. The first
microphone is configured to generate a first mixed electrical signal 112 in response to
receiving the sound 106 from the first sound source 102 and the sound 108 from a
second sound source 104. The second microphone is configured to receive sound (106',
108') from the first sound source 102 and second sound source 104. The second
microphone 110' is configured to generate a second mixed electrical signal 112' in

                                                29
response to receiving the sound 106' from the first sound source 102 and the sound 108'
from the second sound source 104.
A resolution unit 122 is configured to unmix the first mixed electrical signal 112 into a
first primary signal 124 and a second primary signal 124' and to unmix the second
mixed electrical signal 112' into a first secondary signal 126 and a second secondary
signal 126'. The first primary signal 124 and the second primary signal 124' correspond
to the sound (106, 106') received from the first sound source 102 at the first microphone
110 and the second microphone 110' respectively. The first secondary signal 126 and
the second secondary signal 126' corresponding to the sound (108, 108') received from
the second sound source 106 at the first microphone 110 and the second microphone
110' respectively.
In one embodiment, the resolution unit 122 is downstream to the microphones 110, 110'
but upstream to a filterbank 114 in signal processing chain. The filterbank 114
downstream to the resolution unit 122 is configured to filter the first primary signal 124
into a plurality of first primary band limited signals, the first secondary signal 126 into a
plurality of first secondary band limited signals, the second primary signal 124' into a
plurality of second primary band limited signals and the second secondary signal 126'
into a plurality of second secondary band limited signals. The optional beamformer 512
is adapted to produce highly noise reduced signals. This is made possible by utilizing a
microphones that may individually include a microphone arrays, which is configured to
utilize beamforming algorithm in order to steer the listening beam towards a target
source for example towards source 102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while
still receiving sound from other sound source like source 104.
In another embodiment, the first mixed electrical signal 112 and second mixed electrical
signal 112' are first filtered using the filterbank 114 to generate a plurality of first band
limited mixed signals 116 based on the first mixed electrical signal 112 and to generate
a plurality of second band limited mixed signals 116' based on the second mixed
electrical signal 112'. The optional beamformer 512 is adapted to produce highly noise
reduced signals. This is made possible by utilizing a microphones that may individually

                                               30
include a microphone arrays, which is configured to utilize beamforming algorithm in
order to steer the listening beam towards a target source for example towards source
102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while still receiving sound from other
sound source like source 104. Thereafter, plurality of bands having better signal-to
noise ratio 120, 120' are unmixed using the resolution unit 122. Thus, the resolution
unit is configured to unmix the plurality of mixed signals into a plurality of first primary
band limited signals, a plurality of first secondary band limited signals, a plurality of
second primary band limited signals and a plurality of second secondary band limited
signals.
The processing unit 128 is configured to generate a first pulse pattern comprising i) a
first primary pulse pattern 508 corresponding to the first primary signal 124, and ii) a
first secondary pulse pattern 508' corresponding to the first secondary signal 124'. The
processing unit is further configured to generate a second pulse pattern comprising i) a
secondary primary pulse pattern 510 corresponding to the second primary signal 124',
and ii) a second secondary pulse pattern 510' corresponding to the second secondary
signal 126'. The implant 522 includes a pulse generator 140 configured to generate i) a
first primary stimulation pulse 514 based on the first primary pulse pattern 508 for
stimulating, within the first time slot (202, Fig. 7), a first cochlea corresponding to the
first ear, and ii) a first secondary stimulation pulse 514' based on the first secondary
pulse pattern 510' for stimulating, within the first time slot (202, Fig. 7), a second
cochlea corresponding to the second ear. The pulse generator 140 is further configured
to generate i) a second primary stimulation pulse 516 based on the second primary pulse
pattern 510 for stimulating, within the second time slot (204, Fig. 7), the first cochlea
corresponding to the first ear, and ii) a second secondary stimulation pulse 516' based
on the second secondary pulse pattern 510'for stimulating, within the second time slot
(204, Fig. 7), the second cochlea corresponding to the second ear. An electrode array
518 comprising electrodes such as 520 is implantable in the first ear and an electrode
array 518' comprising electrodes such as 520' is implantable in the second ear.
In one embodiment, as illustrated, a filter bank 114 downstream to the microphone 110
is configured to filter the mixed signal into a plurality of band limited signals 116. The

                                                31
optional beamformer 118 is adapted to produce highly noise reduced signals 120 from
the signal 112 and corresponding band limited signal 116. This is made possible by
utilizing a microphone that may include a microphone array, which is configured to
utilize beamforming algorithm in order to steer the listening beam towards a target
source for example towards source 102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while
still receiving sound from other sound source like source 104. A resolution unit 122 is
configured to unmix the plurality of band limited signals into a plurality of first band
limited signals and a plurality of second band limited signals, wherein the plurality of
first band limited signals correspond to the first electrical signal and the plurality of
second band limited signals correspond to the second electrical signal.
In another embodiment, the resolution unit 122 is downstream to the microphone but
upstream to the filter bank 114. Thus, the resolution unit 122 is then configured to
unmix the unmix the mixed electrical signal received from the microphone 110 into the
first electrical signal and the second electrical signal. The filterbank 114 is configured to
receive the first electrical signal and the second electrical signal and to filter the first
electrical signal into a plurality of first band limited signals and the second electrical
signal into a plurality of second band limited signals. The optional beamformer 118 is
adapted to produce highly noise reduced signals 120 from the signal 112 and
corresponding band limited signal. This is made possible by utilizing a microphone that
may include a microphone array, which is configured to utilize beamforming algorithm
in order to steer the listening beam towards a target source for example towards source
102 in order to improve signal to noise ratio, while still receiving sound from other
sound source like source 104.
The system may further include a determination unit 502 configured to determine at
least one of a primary interaural difference between the first primary signal 124 and
second primary signal 126. The primary interaural difference comprising at least one of
primary interaural time difference and primary interaural level difference. The
determination unit is further configured to determine a secondary interaural difference
between the first secondary signal 124' and second secondary signal 126'. The
secondary interaural difference comprising at least one of secondary interaural time

                                               32
difference and secondary interaural level difference. The processing unit may be
configured to generate the first pulse pattern and second pulse pattern in accordance
with the primary interaural difference and/ or secondary interaural difference
respectively.
In an embodiment, the first pulse pattern and second pulse pattern is generated for
corresponding bands, defined by same or substantially overlapping frequency ranges,
selected from the plurality of first primary band limited signals, plurality of first
secondary band limited signals, plurality of second primary band limited signals, and
plurality of second secondary band limited signals respectively.
In an embodiment, the system further includes a transmitter 134 configured to transmit
i) the first pulse pattern and the second pulse pattern from the processing unit 128 to the
implant 522 within the time window ((206, Fig. 7), or ii) alternatively transmit the first
pulse pattern in the first time slot ((202, Fig. 7) and the second pulse pattern in the
second time slot (204, Fig. 7) from the processing unit 128 to the implant 522. Such
transmission is generally in form of the pulse patterns being transmitted, generally
inductively, as encoded data 512. The receiver 138 configured to receive the first pulse
pattern and the second pulse pattern within the time window (206, Fig. 7), or ii)
alternatively receive the first pulse pattern in the first time slot (202, Fig. 7) and the
second pulse pattern in the second time slot (204, Fig. 7).
Fig. 6 illustrates a CI user using a cochlear implant system configured to receive sound
from two sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure. A user 305
having a bilateral cochlear implant system as the left ear (left CI) and right ear (Right CI
) is shown. Two sound sources (first sound source 102 and second sound source 104)
are present in the auditory scene of the user 305. A first microphone (110, Right CI)
comprised in the Right CI is configured to receive sounds 106 and 108 from the first
sound source 102 and second sound source 104 respectively. The first microphone is
configured to generate a first mixed electrical signal (112, Fig. 6). A second microphone
(110', Left CI) comprised in the Left CI is configured to receive sounds 106' and 108'
from the first sound source 102 and second sound source 104 respectively. The second

                                                 33
microphone is configured to generate a second mixed electrical signal (112', Fig. 6).
The sound sources 102 and 104 are located at a different location with respect to the
user. In the illustration, it is apparent that the sound 106' from the first sound source
102 would reach the Left CI prior to the sound 106 reaching the Right CI. Similarly, the
sound 108 from the second sound source 104 would reach the Right CI prior to the
sournd 108' reaching the Left CI. The magnitude of sound reaching from the first sound
source 102 and the second sound source 104 at a specific CI (Right or Left) is
dependent upon individual level at the Left CI and Right CI. However, the sound
reaching the Left CI and Right CI are generally inter-related, for example based on
attenuation Head Related Transfer Function (HRTF). As explained earlier, the
resolution unit (122, Fig. 5) of the cochlear implant system 100 is configured to unmix
the first electrical mixed signal into a first primary signal and second primary signal and
to unmix the second electrical mixed signal into first secondary signal and a second
secondary signal.
Fig. 7 illustrates sequence for delivering stimulation pulses corresponding to multiple
sound sources according to an embodiment of the disclosure. The first time slot 202 and
the second time slot 204 are sequentially comprised in a time window 206. The time
window 206 includes a predefined time duration (for example width of 206) during
which stimulation for a specific frequency channel such as f1 (relating to electrodes 520
and 520', Fig. 5), defined by the corresponding bands, using a first electrode array (520,
Fig. 5) implantable in the first cochlea for stimulating the first cochlea and a second
electrode array (520', Fig. 5) implantable in the second cochlea for stimulating the
second cochlea is provided. A plurality of time windows are comprised in a time frame
(208) during which one cycle of auditory nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the
second cochlea is completed. Each time window such as 206 of the plurality of time
windows corresponds to a specific frequency channel such as f1 assigned to a specific
binaural electrode pair comprising pairing of an electrode (520, Fig. 5) of first electrode
array (518, Fig. 5) with an electrode (520', Fig. 5) of the second electrode array (518',
Fig. 5). Each time window such as 206 includes sequential time slots (202, 204) during
which stimulation corresponding to the first sound source (102, Fig. 6) and second
sound source (104, Fig. 6) for the specific frequency channel is sequentially provided

                                              34
such that the time slots across the time windows are provided in an interleaved manner.
The time frame 208 is followed by a subsequent time frame (208', Fig. 2) during which
a subsequent cycle of the auditory nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the second
cochlea is completed.
The pulse generator (140, Fig. 5) is configured to generate the first primary stimulation
pulse (514, Fig. 5), first secondary stimulation pulse (514', Fig. 5), second primary
stimulation pulse (516, Fig. 5) and second secondary stimulation pulse (516', Fig. 5).
The pulse generator is configured to deliver the first primary stimulation pulse and first
secondary stimulation pulse, corresponding to a band, to an electrode (520, Fig. 5)
associated with a frequency channel f1 representing the band in a first time slot 202.
The pulse generator is configured to deliver the second primary stimulation pulse and
second secondary stimulation pulse, corresponding to a band, to an electrode (520, Fig.
5) associated with a frequency channel f1 representing the band in a second time slot
204.
The stimulation pulses are characterized by electric charge corresponding levels of the
received sound. The conversion of level into electric charge for a specific frequency
channel is a function of a mapping function, which also takes into account threshold (T)
and uncomfortable (C) levels of the user. Such mapping is disclosed in EP patent
application EP3045204 (for example in Figs. 2 - 4), which is incorporated herein by
reference. The generation and delivery of the stimulation pulse is a function of whether
sound from a particular sound source is available in a certain frequency channel. In the
illustration, for a frequency channel f 1, sound is available from both the first sound
source and the second sound source. Therefore, the pulse generator is configured to
deliver the stimulation pulses to both the Left CI and Right CI in both first time slot 202
and second time slot 204. However, for frequency channel f2, there is audio content in
the sound received from the first sound source and not from the second sound source.
Therefore, the stimulation pulse is represented for both Left CI and Right CI but only in
the first time slot of the time window. Similarly, if the audio content is only available
for the second sound source for a specific frequency channel, then the stimulation pulse

                                              35
is generated and delivered to both Left CI and Right CI but only within the time slot
linked to that sound source, as illustrate for frequency channel f3.
RTL and RTR represents the reference times for each time slot, i.e. the starting point of
the first time slot and the second time slot. The pulse generator may be configured to
provide sound source proximity information with respect a specific CI (either Right CI
or Left CI) by utilizing relative timing information for each sound source in relation to
respective reference time. The pulse generator is configured to utilize time gap between
respective reference time and delivery of respective stimulation pulse in the assigned
time slot to represent the proximity. This principle is described earlier with respect to
Fig. 4.
The pulse generator is further configured to provide localization information for sound
received from a particular sound source by utilizing the disclosed principle of
interleaved time slots. For a frequency channel f1, the pulse generator is configured to
deliver a first primary stimulation pulse 514 based on the first primary pulse pattern for
stimulating, within the first time slot 202, a first cochlea corresponding to the first ear.
For example, the first cochlear may correspond to the Left CI having the electrode array
(518, Fig. 5). For the same frequency channel f1, the pulse generator is configured to
deliver a first secondary stimulation pulse 514' based on the first secondary pulse
pattern for stimulating, within the first time slot 202, a second cochlea corresponding to
the second ear. For example, the second cochlea may correspond to the Right CI having
the electrode array (518', Fig. 5). The first primary stimulation pulse 514 and first
secondary stimulation pulse 514' represent a charge amount of FLL and FLR, a
difference between the charge amounts represent the primary interaural level difference.
Furthermore, the pulse generator is configured to deliver of the first primary stimulation
pulse 514 and first secondary stimulation pulse 514' from the reference time RTL of the
first time slot 202 such that the difference in delivery, within the first time slot,
represents primary interaural time difference ITD.
For the frequency channel f 1, the pulse generator is configured to deliver a second
primary stimulation pulse 516 based on the second primary pulse pattern for

                                             36
stimulating, within the second time slot 204, a first cochlea corresponding to the first
ear. For example, the first cochlear may correspond to the Left CI having the electrode
array (518, Fig. 5). For the same frequency channel f 1, the pulse generator is configured
to deliver a second secondary stimulation pulse 516' based on the second secondary
pulse pattern for stimulating, within the second time slot 204, a second cochlea
corresponding to the second ear. For example, the second cochlea may correspond to
the Right CI having the electrode array (518', Fig. 5). The second primary stimulation
pulse 516 and first secondary stimulation pulse 516' represent a charge amounts such
that a difference between the charge amounts represent the secondary interaural level
difference. Furthermore, the pulse generator is configured to deliver of the second
primary stimulation pulse 516 and second secondary stimulation pulse 516' from the
reference time RTR of the second time slot 204 such that the difference in delivery,
within the second time slot, represents the secondary interaural time difference.
According to an embodiment, the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the
first primary pulse pattern with the primary interaural difference incorporated therein,
and the second secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the second primary pulse
pattern with the secondary interaural difference incorporated therein. Therefore, pulse
patterns may be generated based on primary pulse patterns and respective interaural
differences.
According to an embodiment, the first secondary pulse pattern comprises the primary
interaural difference information and the secondary pulse pattern comprises the
secondary interaural difference information. The pulse generator is configured to
generate a copy of the first primary pulse pattern, incorporate the primary interaural
difference, and generate the first secondary stimulation pulse based on the copy of the
first primary pulse pattern incorporating the primary interaural difference. The pulse
generator is configured to generate a copy of the second primary pulse pattern,
incorporate the secondary interaural difference, and generate the second secondary
stimulation pulse based on the copy of the second primary pulse pattern incorporating
the secondary interaural difference.

                                                37
According to an embodiment, the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the
first primary pulse pattern with the primary interaural level difference incorporated
therein, and ii) within the first time slot, the processing unit is configured to align
transmission of the first primary pulse pattern and first secondary pulse pattern such that
a difference between time of arrival of the first primary pulse pattern and time of arrival
of the first secondary pulse pattern at the receiver represents the primary interaural time
difference. Additionally or alternatively, i) a second secondary pulse pattern comprises
a copy of the second primary pulse pattern with the secondary interaural level difference
incorporated therein; and ii) within the second time slot, the processing unit is
configured to align transmission of the second primary pulse pattern and the second
secondary pulse pattern such that a difference between time of arrival of the second
primary pulse pattern and time of arrival of the second secondary pulse pattern at the
receiver represents the secondary interaural time difference.
According to an embodiment, a primary electrode from a first electrode array
implantable in the first cochlea and a secondary electrode from a second electrode array
implantable in the second cochlea form the binaural electrode pair. The primary
electrode and secondary electrode are defined by the same of overlapping frequency
ranges.
In an embodiment, the pulse generator is configured to access the binaural electrode
pair information comprising pairing of the primary electrode with the secondary
electrode, wherein one electrode of the pair is a master electrode and another electrode
is a slave electrode. In different embodiments, accessing the binaural electrode pair
information may either be provided as part of the information included in the bit
transmitted from the processing unit to the implant or in a look up table. The look up
table may typically be stored in a memory of the bilateral cochlear implant system,
usually in a memory of the implant. One of the electrode of the binaural pair may be
pre-classified or dynamically assigned as the master electrode and another electrode of
the binaural pair being pre-classified or dynamically assigned as the slave electrode.

                                                 38
Fig. 8 illustrates a binaural electrode pair between a master electrode and a slave
electrode according to an embodiment of the disclosure. For at least frequency channel
such as f 1; at least one of the first time slot 202 and second time slot 204 includes a first
headroom H and a second headroom H' respectively. The first headroom is immediately
prior to a first reference time RT comprised within the first time slot 202. Similarly, the
second headroom H' is immediately prior to a second reference time comprised within
the second time slot.
Fig. 9A illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = 0 according to an embodiment of the
disclosure. The illustration only shows the first time slot 202. However, the skilled
person would appreciate that the same principle is also applicable to the second time
slot as well. In other words, both the primary electrode and the secondary electrode are
activated simultaneously. This may happen when the first sound source is not offset
with respect to the ears or the horizontal angles at the first ear and the second ear are
equal such as the sound coming directly from front or behind.
Fig. 9B illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = +ve according to an embodiment of the
disclosure. The illustration only shows the first time slot 202. However, the skilled
person would appreciate that the same principle is also applicable to the second time
slot as well. In this embodiment, the master electrode is activated using the first
primary stimulation pulse prior to the slave electrode, activated by first secondary
stimulation pulse, by ITD/mITD/aITD which is represented by ITD. This may happen
when the first sound source is offset such that it is closer to the microphone
corresponding to the master electrode.
Fig. 9C illustrates ITD based electrode activation relationship between a master
electrode and a slave electrode when ITD = -ve according to an embodiment of the
disclosure. The illustration only shows the first time slot 202. However, the skilled
person would appreciate that the same principle is also applicable to the second time
slot as well. In this embodiment, the master electrode is activated using first primary

                                               39
stimulation pulse at the reference time RT and the slave electrode array is activated
using first secondary stimulation pulse prior by ITD to the master electrode, utilizing
the headroom H for prior activation.
In the preceding illustrations, P may represent a processing delay prior to each time
window such as 202, H represents the first headroom, MSP represents the first primary
stimulation pulse for the master electrode, SSP represents the first secondary
stimulation pulse for the slave electrode, RT represents the reference time at which
master electrode/ reassigned master electrode is activated.
According to an embodiment, an electrode of the first electrode array and an electrode
of the second electrode array defined by same of substantially overlapping frequency
ranges form a binaural electrode pair. One electrode of the pair is pre-classified or
dynamically assigned as a master electrode and another electrode as a slave electrode.
The pulse generator may be configured to access the binaural electrode pair
information, from a memory, comprising pairing of an electrode of an electrode array
with an electrode of the another electrode array, wherein one electrode of the pair is a
master electrode and another electrode is a slave electrode. At least one of the first time
slot includes a first headroom immediately prior to a first reference time comprised
within the first time slot and the second time slot includes a second headroom
immediately prior to a second reference time comprised within the second time slot. For
each time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the interaural time difference
relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural time difference is positive,
the master electrode is activated at a reference time prior to the slave electrode. For each
time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the interaural time difference
relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural time difference is negative,
i) the slave electrode is activated prior to the master electrode such that the master
electrode is activated at the first reference time and the slave electrode is activated
utilizing the first headroom for stimulation based on the first primary stimulation pulse
and first secondary stimulation pulse and ii) the slave electrode is activated prior to the
master electrode such that the master electrode is activated at the second reference time
and the slave electrode is activated utilizing the second headroom for stimulation based

                                              40
on the second primary stimulation pulse and second secondary stimulation pulse.
Alternatively, for each time slot, the pulse generator is configured to specify the
interaural time difference relative to the master electrode such that when the interaural
time difference is negative, the master electrode is reassigned as a slave electrode and
the slave electrode is reassigned as a master electrode, such that the reassigned master
electrode is activated at the reference time and prior to the reassigned slave electrode
without need of the headroom.
According to an embodiment, the processing unit is configured to control transmission
rate of the pulse patterns from the transmitter to receiver such that the primary pulse
pattern and the secondary pulse pattern, or the first pulse pattern and second pulse
pattern are transmitted sequentially within the time window comprising the first slot and
second slot.
Fig. 10 illustrates stimulation rate in accordance with determined frequency band
according to an embodiment of the disclosure. The processing unit is configured to
determine whether the first band and second band include low frequencies or high
frequencies. In another embodiment, the processing unit is configured to determine
whether at least one of i) the first primary band limited signal, and first secondary band
limited signal, and ii) the second primary band limited signal and a second secondary
band limited signal include low frequencies or high frequencies. The processing unit is
configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns corresponding to at least one of i) both
the first band and second band, ii) both the first primary band limited signal, and first
secondary band limited signal, and iii) both the second primary band limited signal and
a second secondary band limited signal at a generation rate that is same as the frame
rate in response to identification of the band(s)/ band limited signal(s) include high
frequencies. The processing unit is configured to generate stimulation pulse patterns
corresponding to at least one of i) both the first band and second band, ii) both the first
primary band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and iii) both the
second primary band limited signal and a second secondary band limited signal at a
generation rate that is lower than a frame rate in response to identification of the
band(s)/ band limited signal(s) and second band include low frequencies. Thus, the

                                             41
implant is configured to generate and deliver stimulation pulses based on the generated
stimulation pulse patterns in all time frames for high frequencies and only in a few time
frames for low frequencies. For example, fi represents the frequency channel associated
with the low frequency band such as 100 Hz - 200 Hz and f5 represents the frequency
channel associated with the high frequency band such as 2800 Hz - 3500 Hz. If the
generation rate for low frequency band is 100 Hz and the generation rate for high
frequency band is 1000 Hz, then the generation rate for generating stimulation pulse
patterns for high frequencies is 10 times than the generation rate for generating
stimulation pulse patterns of low frequencies. In other words, the stimulation pulse
corresponding to stimulation pulse pattern for high frequencies is generated for each of
10 time frames, i.e. for each of Frame 1 through Fr 10 and the stimulation pulse
corresponding to stimulation pulse patterns for low frequencies is generated only once
per 10 time frames, i.e. in Frame 1 for time frames from Frame 1 through Fr 10. This
stimulation may be repeated in same fashion, i.e generating stimulation pulse once for
low frequency in Frame 11 from Frame 11 through to Frame 20, whereas stimulation
pulse is generated for high frequencies for each time frame from Frame 11 through to
Frame 20. 208 represents time frame 1, 208" represents time frame 11, 206 and 206"
represents time windows corresponding to frequency channel f1 (corresponding to low
frequencies) in frame 1 and frame 11 respectively, 202 and 202", and 204 and 204"
represent first time slot and second time slot in time frame 1 and time frame 11
respectively, 1006 and 1006" represent time windows corresponding to frequency
channel f5 (corresponding to high frequencies) in frame 1 and frame 11 respectively,
1002 and 1002", and 1004 and 1004" represent first time slot and second time slot
corresponding to f5 in time frame 1 and time frame 11 respectively, and Fr 2,.... Fr 10
represents time frames from time frame 2 through time frame 10.
As used, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural forms
as well (i.e. to have the meaning "at least one"), unless expressly stated otherwise. It
will be further understood that the terms "include", "comprise", "includes",
"comprises", "included", "comprised", "including" and/or "comprising," when used in
this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations,
elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or

                                              42
more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups
thereof. As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or
more of the associated listed items. The steps of any disclosed method is not limited to
the exact order stated herein, unless expressly stated otherwise.
It should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to "one
embodiment" or "an embodiment" or "an aspect" or features included as "may" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. Furthermore, the
particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in one or
more embodiments of the disclosure. Whilst one or more preferred embodiments of the
present invention have been herein before described, the scope of the present invention
is not limited to those specific embodiment(s), and may be embodied in other ways, as
will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. The previous description is provided to
enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein.
Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the
art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects.
Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art are
deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
Accordingly, the scope should be judged in terms of the claims that follow.

                                               43
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A cochlear implant system comprising
               an input unit configured to provide a first electrical signal from a first
sound source and a second electrical signal from a second sound source;
               a filterbank configured to filter the first electrical signal into a plurality of
first band limited signals and the second electrical signal into a plurality of second band
limited signals;
               a processing unit configured to generate a primary pulse pattern based on a
first band selected from the plurality of first band limited signals and to generate a
secondary pulse pattern based on a second band selected from the plurality of second
band limited signals, the first band and the second band being defined by same or
substantially overlapping frequency ranges; and
               an implant configured to receive the primary pulse pattern and the
secondary pulse pattern from the processing unit, wherein
               the primary pulse pattern is configured to stimulate a cochlea of a user of
               the cochlear implant system during a first time slot, and
               the secondary pulse pattern is configured to stimulate the cochlea of the
user of the cochlear implant system during a second time slot, and
               the first time slot and the second time slot are sequential time slots.
2. The cochlear implant system according to claim 1, wherein the first time slot and the
second time slot are sequentially comprised in a time window, wherein
               the time window comprises a predefined time duration during which an
electrode of an electrode array implantable in the cochlea is configured to stimulate an
auditory nerve, the electrode being associated with a specific frequency channel
corresponding to the first band and second band.
3. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
               a plurality of time windows are comprised in a time frame during which
one cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is completed,
               each time window of the plurality of time windows corresponds to a
specific frequency channel assigned to a specific electrode of the electrode array,

                                              44
               each time window comprises sequential time slots during which
stimulation corresponding to the first sound source and second sound source for the
specific frequency channel is sequentially provided such that the time slots across the
time windows are provided in an interleaved manner, and
               the time frame is followed by a subsequent time frame during which a
subsequent cycle of stimulation at the cochlea is completed.
4. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the preceding claims,
               wherein the input unit comprises a microphone configured to receive a
mixed electrical signal from the first sound source and the second sound source; and
                the system further comprising a resolution unit that is configured to
unmix the mixed electrical signal into the first electrical signal and the second electrical
signal.
5. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the preceding claims, further
comprises a bilateral cochlear implant system comprising
               a first microphone configured to be positioned at or in vicinity of a first
ear of the user, the first microphone being configured to generate a first mixed electrical
signal in response to receiving a sound from a first sound source and a sound from a
second sound source;
               a second microphone configured to be positioned at or vicinity of a second
ear of the user, the second microphone being configured to generate a second mixed
electrical signal in response to receiving the sound from the first sound source and the
sound from the second sound source;
               a resolution unit configured to unmix the first mixed electrical signal into
a first primary signal and a second primary signal and to unmix the second mixed
electrical signal into first secondary signal and a second secondary signal, the first
primary signal and the second primary signal corresponding to the sound received from
the first sound source at the first microphone and the second microphone respectively
and the first secondary signal and the second secondary signal corresponding to the
sound received from the second sound source at the first microphone and the second
microphone respectively,

                                                 45
               the processing unit configured to generate
                              a first pulse pattern comprising i) a first primary pulse
               pattern corresponding to the first primary signal, and ii) a first secondary
               pulse pattern corresponding to the first secondary signal, and
                              a second pulse pattern comprising i) a secondary primary
               pulse pattern corresponding to the second primary signal, and ii) a second
               secondary pulse pattern corresponding to the second secondary signal;
               the implant comprising
                              a pulse generator configured to generate
                                              i) a first primary stimulation pulse based on the
                              first primary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the first
                              time slot, a first cochlea corresponding to the first ear, and ii)
                              a first secondary stimulation pulse based on the first
                              secondary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the first time
                              slot, a second cochlea corresponding to the second ear, and
                                              i) a second primary stimulation pulse based on
                              the second primary pulse pattern for stimulating, within the
                              second time slot, the first cochlea corresponding to the first
                              ear, and ii) a second secondary stimulation pulse based on
                              the second secondary pulse pattern for stimulating, within
                              the second time slot, the second cochlea corresponding to the
                              second ear.
6. The cochlear implant system according to claim 5, further comprising the filterbank
configured to filter the first primary signal into a plurality of first primary band limited
signals, the first secondary signal into a plurality of first secondary band limited signals,
the second primary electrical signal into a plurality of second primary band limited
signals and the second secondary signal into a plurality of second secondary band
limited signals; wherein
               the first pulse pattern and second pulse pattern is generated for
corresponding bands, defined by same or substantially overlapping frequency ranges,
selected from the plurality of first primary band limited signals, plurality of first

                                               46
secondary band limited signals, plurality of second primary band limited signals, and
plurality of second secondary band limited signals respectively.
7. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the claims 5-6, wherein the first
time slot and the second time slot are sequentially comprised in a time window, wherein
                the time window comprises a predefined time duration during which
stimulation for a specific frequency channel, defined by the corresponding bands, using
a first electrode array implantable in the first cochlea for stimulating the first cochlea
and a second electrode array implantable in the second cochlea for stimulating the
second cochlea is provided.
8. The cochlear implant system according to any one of claims 5-7, further comprising
                a transmitter configured to transmit i) the first pulse pattern and the second
    pulse pattern from the processing unit to the implant within the time window, or ii)
    alternatively transmit the first pulse pattern in the first time slot and the second pulse
    pattern in the second time slot from the processing unit to the implant; and
                a receiver configured to receive the first pulse pattern and the second pulse
    pattern within the time window, or ii) alternatively receive the first pulse pattern in
   the first time slot and the second pulse pattern in the second time slot.
9. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the claims 5-8, wherein
                the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the first primary
pulse pattern with a primary interaural difference incorporated therein, and
                the second secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the second
primary pulse pattern with a secondary interaural difference incorporated therein.
10. The cochlear implant system according to one any of the claims 5-8, wherein
                the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a primary interaural difference
information and the secondary pulse pattern comprises a secondary interaural difference
information; and
                the pulse generator is configured to

                                              47
                               generate a copy of the first primary pulse pattern, incorporate
               the primary interaural difference, and generate the first secondary
               stimulation pulse based on the copy of the first primary pulse pattern
               incorporating the primary interaural difference, and
                               generate a copy of the second primary pulse pattern,
               incorporate the secondary interaural difference, and generate the second
               secondary stimulation pulse based on the copy of the second primary pulse
               pattern incorporating the secondary interaural difference.
11. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the claims 5-8, wherein
               i) the first secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the first primary
pulse pattern with a primary interaural level difference incorporated therein, and ii)
within the first time slot, the processing unit is configured to align transmission of the
first primary pulse pattern and first secondary pulse pattern such that a difference
between time of arrival of the first primary pulse pattern and time of arrival of the first
secondary pulse pattern at the receiver represents a primary interaural time difference;
and/ or
               i) a second secondary pulse pattern comprises a copy of the second
primary pulse pattern with a secondary interaural level difference incorporated therein;
and ii) within the second time slot, the processing unit is configured to align
transmission of the second primary pulse pattern and the second secondary pulse pattern
such that a difference between time of arrival of the second primary pulse pattern and
time of arrival of the second secondary pulse pattern at the receiver represents a
secondary interaural time difference.
12. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the claims 5-11, wherein
               a plurality of time windows are comprised in a time frame during which
one cycle of auditory nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the second cochlea is
completed,
               each time window of the plurality of time windows corresponds to a
specific frequency channel assigned to a specific binaural electrode pair comprising

                                                  48
pairing of an electrode of first electrode array with an electrode of the second electrode
array,
                each time window comprises sequential time slots during which
stimulation corresponding to the first sound source and second sound source for the
specific frequency channel is sequentially provided such that the time slots across the
time windows are provided in an interleaved manner, and
                the time frame is followed by a subsequent time frame during which a
subsequent cycle of the auditory nerve stimulation at the first cochlea and the second
cochlea is completed.
13. The cochlear implant system according to any one claims 5-12, wherein
                an electrode of the first electrode array and an electrode of the second
electrode array defined by same of substantially overlapping frequency ranges form a
binaural electrode pair, one electrode of the pair being pre-classified or dynamically
assigned as a master electrode and another electrode as a slave electrode;
                at least one of the first time slot comprising a first headroom immediately
prior to a first reference time comprised within the first time slot and the second time
slot comprising a second headroom immediately prior to a second reference time
comprised within the second time slot;
                for each time slot, the pulse generator is configured to
                                specify the interaural time difference relative to the master
                electrode such that when the interaural time difference is positive, the
                master electrode is activated at a reference time prior to the slave
                electrode, and
                                specify the interaural time difference relative to the master
                electrode such that when the interaural time difference is negative,
                                           i) the slave electrode is activated prior to the
                           master electrode such that the master electrode is activated at the
                           first reference time and the slave electrode is activated utilizing
                           the first headroom for stimulation based on the first primary
                           stimulation pulse and first secondary stimulation pulse and ii)
                           the slave electrode is activated prior to the master electrode such

                                               49
                          that the master electrode is activated at the second reference time
                          and the slave electrode is activated utilizing the second
                          headroom for stimulation based on the second primary
                          stimulation pulse and second secondary stimulation pulse; or
                                         the master electrode is reassigned as a slave
                          electrode and the slave electrode is reassigned as a master
                          electrode, such that the reassigned master electrode is activated
                          at the reference time and prior to the reassigned slave electrode
                          without need of the headroom.
14. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the processing unit is configured to control transmission rate of the pulse patterns from
the transmitter to receiver such that the primary pulse pattern and the secondary pulse
pattern, or the first pulse pattern and second pulse pattern are transmitted sequentially
within the time window comprising the first slot and second slot.
15. The cochlear implant system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the processing unit is configured to
               determine whether at least one of the i) first band and second band, ii) the
first primary band limited signal, and first secondary band limited signal, and iii) the
second primary band limited signal and second secondary band limited signal include
low frequencies;
               generate stimulation pulse patterns corresponding to at least one of i) both
the first band and second band, ii) both the first primary band limited signal, and first
secondary band limited signal, and iii) both the second primary band limited signal and
a second secondary band limited signal at a generation rate that is lower than a frame
rate in response to identification of the band(s)/ band limited signal(s) and second band
include low frequencies.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
f20
f5
                                        2/7
f4
f3
f2
 f1
      TIME

                                                       <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
     Source L
       102
                                                 Source R
                                                   104
                          CI USER
                             305
                    SL                                                                  3/7
SL        SR                  SR    SL    t SR   SL        SR
                T
     f1                  f2              f3           f4            f20    f20
                                         TIME

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
124    508
124'   508'
126    510
126'   510'
                              4/7

                                                                           <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 Source L
                   102
                                              106   108'
                        106'                                          Source R
                                                                        104
                                                                108
                                          CI USER
                                             305
                                                           Right CI
                               Left CI
            SL          SR       SL           SR    SL        SR      SL        SR
                                                                                                            5/7
Left CI
           ITD
Right CI
                   f1                    f2              f3                f4           f20     f20
                                                         TIME

                                                                                          <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                H            H
                                                                                                TIME
                SL           SR          SL        SR    SL        SR      SL        SR
    MASTER
    SLAVE
    RT
                        f1                    f2              f3                f4              f20       f20
                                  RT
                                                                                                                          6/7
                                        MSP                          MSP                                        MSP
            P       H                               P    H                                  P         H
MASTER                                                                                            ITD
                                        SSP                                 SSP                       SSP
            P                                                      ITD                      P
                 H                                  P    H                                            H
SLAVE
                                                        RT
                RT                                                                               RT

                                                                     <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
f20   Frame 1          Fr 2 Fr 3 Fr 3 Fr 4 Fr 5 Fr 6 Fr 7 Fr 8 Fr 9 Fr 10    Frame 11
 f5
                                                                                                 7/7
 f4
 f3
 f2
f1
                TIME

