                                               Abstract
       The invention discloses the application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing
  the medicine that decreases uric acid and dissolves chalk stones to repair the kidney function. In the
  application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine decreasing uric acid
5 and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function, the sunflower small molecule peptide can
  play the role of anti-inflammation, subsidence of a swelling, pain-relieving, lowering blood uric
  acid and dissolving sodium urate, have a good repair effect on the damaged cells of the kidney and
  address both the symptoms and root causes of hyperuricemia, fundamentally curing the disease.
0
5
0
                                                    9

Our Ref: 8091 Inno
                                                                          P/00/009
                                                                    Regulation 3.2
                                 AUSTRALIA
                                Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Name of Applicant:   Jilin Province Beijian Biological Technology Co., Ltd.
Invention title:     Application Of Sunflower Small Molecule Peptide In The
                     Repair Of Renal Function By Decreasing Uric Acid And
                     Dissolving Chalk Stones
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:
                                        1

   Application of sunflower small molecule peptide in the repair of renal function by decreasing uric
    acid and dissolving chalk stones
    Technical field
 5        The invention relates to the technical field of medicine, in particular to the application of the
    sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine decreasing uric acid and dissolving
    chalk stones to repair the kidney function.
   Background technique
 0        Gout is a metabolic disease caused by purine metabolic disorders, with elevated blood uric
    acid concentration, resulting from sodium urate crystals deposited in the lower extremity joints,
    arteries, and vertebral bone interstitial tissue. It leads to red, swollen, hot and painful joint, adverse
   joint activity, and joint deformity and dysfunction in severe cases, and has the characteristics of
   recurrence. The presence of gout also can lead to coronary heart disease, diabetes, high blood
 5 pressure and other diseases worsened. In the treatment by western medicine, there is no radical cure
    for gout; colchicine, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, allopurinol and other drugs can reduce
    symptoms and reduce blood uric acid, but they only play a single role and it is difficult to cure gout
   radically, and long-term use of such western drugs on the body causes more harm than the treatment
    effect.
 0        At present, the incidence of hyperuricemia is on the rise at home and abroad. Its pathogenesis
    is mainly the increase in uric acid and the decrease in excretion of renal uric acid. And the disease
   medication often damages the kidney and aggravates the burden on the kidney.
          The sunflower disk is the one of Compositae sunflower (Helianthus annuuss L.), also known
    as sunflower receptacle, sunflower cake and Kwai Fong; it is neutral in nature, sweet and light,
25 non-toxic, passing through the liver meridian; the main function is clearing heat and leveling the
    liver, relieving pain, and stop bleeding, and it is used for the treatment of arthritis, mastitis,
    dizziness, tinnitus, abdominal pain and so on. The sunflower disk decoction has the role of tumor
   treatment, the sunflower disk ethanol extract has a certain antihypertensive effect, and folk also use
    it as a treatment of atrophic gastritis. China is a big country for the cultivation of sunflowers, rich in
30 resources of sunflower disks. However, in traditional applications, the sunflower disk after
   removing the sunflower seeds is used as livestock feed to feed livestock or as firewood to cook food,
   thereby failing to exert greater economic and medical benefits, and leading to a waste of resources.
   Invention content
35        In order to solve the problems in the prior art, the embodiments of the present invention
                                                           2

   provide the application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine
   decreasing uric acid and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function. The technical scheme
   is as follows:
         One side, the application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine
 5 decreasing uric acid and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function.
         Further, crude protein in sunflower small molecule peptide mentioned > 93%, relative
   molecular mass distribution of 80% of peptide fragments/u <1000; peptide content being 85.6%,
   moisture content 3.5 %, and ash content 7.4%.
 0       Further on, the mentioned sunflower small molecule peptide is prepared by the following
   method:
         1) Crush the sunflower disk to 100-200 mesh, add 6-10 times mass of deionized water, stir
   it well, adjust the pH value to 8-9 with sodium hydroxide, stir it at 45-50'C for 120-240
 5 minutes to obtain sunflower disk separating protein solution;
         2) Heat the sunflower disk separating protein solution to 85-90'C, stir it for 1-3 hours, cool
   it to 45-55'C, add compound protease which is 0.1        -0.3 % of the total volume of the sunflower
   disk separating protein solution, and allow enzymolysis 3-5 hours. As the reaction ends, the
   temperature is raised to 85-90'C in 5 minutes, lasting 5-10 minutes, and then the compound
 0 protease is inactivated. Reserve the enzymatic hydrolysate for use;
         3) Centrifuge the enzymatic hydrolysate of step 2) for 8-12 minutes at the speed of 5000
   revolutions/min, and collect the supernatant to obtain the sunflower protein small molecule peptide
   crude liquid;
         4) Treat the sunflower protein small molecule peptide crude liquid of step 3) by the
25 ultrafiltration using the hollow fiber membrane whose cut-off molecular weight is 5000-20000 to
   remove the macromolecular protein to obtain sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution;
         5) Concentrate the sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution of Step 4) to one-fourth to
   one-half of the original volume, spray and dry it to obtain sunflower small molecule peptide.
         The beneficial effect of the technical scheme provided by the embodiments of the invention is
30 that: In the application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine
   decreasing uric acid and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function, the sunflower small
   molecule peptide can play the role of anti-inflammation, subsidence of swelling, pain-relieving,
   lowering blood uric acid and dissolving sodium urate, have a good repair effect on the damaged
   cells of the kidney and address both the symptoms and root causes of hyperuricemia, fundamentally
35 curing the disease.
                                                      3

   Description of Accompanying Diagram
 5       To describe the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present invention more clearly,
   the following briefly introduces the accompanying diagrams required in the embodiments.
        Figure 1 is the kidney cell diagram of a blank group in Embodiment 2 of the present invention,
   in which A is magnified 400 times, and B is magnified 200 times;
        Figure 2 is the kidney cell diagram of a model group in Embodiment 2 of the present invention,
 0 in which A is 400 times magnified diagram a, B is 400 times magnified diagram b, C is magnified
   200 times;
        Figure 3 is the kidney cell diagram of the sunflower small molecule peptide group in
   Embodiment 2 of the present invention, in which A is 400 times magnified, and B is 200 times
   magnified;
 5      Figure 4 is the purine group kidney cell diagram in Embodiment 2 of the present invention, in
   which A is 400 times magnified diagram a, B is 400 times magnified diagram b, and C is the 200
   times magnified diagram.
   Detailed Implementing Methods
 0       To make the objectives, technical solutions, and advantages of the present invention clearer,
   the implementing methods of the present invention are further described in detail below with
   reference to the accompanying diagrams.
        Embodiment 1 Preparation of sunflower small molecule peptide
         1) Crush 5kg of sunflower disk to 100 mesh, add 30kg of deionized water, stir well, adjust the
25 pH value to 8 with sodium hydroxide, and stir at 45'C for 120 minutes to obtain the sunflower disk
   separating protein solution.
        2) Heat the sunflower disk separating protein solution to 85'C, stir it for 1 hour, cool it to 45'C,
   add compound protease (ginger protease, snail protease, and bat moth larval protein digestive
   enzyme are mixed in the ratio of 1: 0.5 : 1) which is 0.1% of the total volume of the sunflower disk
30 separating protein solution, and allow enzymolysis for 3 hours. As the reaction ends, the
   temperature is raised to 85'C in 5 minutes, lasting 5 minutes, and then the compound protease is
   inactivated. Reserve the enzymatic hydrolysate for use.
         3) Centrifuge the enzymatic hydrolysate of step 2) for 8 minutes at the speed of 5000
   revolutions/min, and collect the supernatant to obtain the sunflower protein small molecule peptide
35 crude liquid.
                                                     4

        4) Treat the sunflower protein small molecule peptide crude liquid of step 3) by ultrafiltration
   using the hollow fiber membrane whose cut-off molecular weight is 5000 to remove the
   macromolecular protein to obtain the sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution.
         5) Concentrate the sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution of Step 4) to one-fourth of
 5 the original volume, spray and dry it to obtain sunflower small molecule peptide.
         The preparation method of the bat moth larvae's protein digestive enzyme involves the
   following steps: remove the head of the bat moth larvae and remove the skin and fat, take the whole
   gut, add 10 times mass of phosphate buffer, homogenize, treat the serosity of 4'C by centrifugal
   force at the speed of 3000rpm/min, take and heat the supernatant to 40'C and rapidly cool it to 50 C,
 0 remove the fat by filtration, remove the salt by dialysis, and freeze-dry it to finish the preparation.
        As to the      obtained    substance,  crude protein in sunflower         small molecule peptide
   mentioned>93%, relative molecular mass distribution of 80% of peptide fragments/u <1000;
   peptide content being 85.6%, moisture content 3.5 %, and ash content 7.4%.
        Embodiment 2 Test of sunflower small molecule peptide's decreasing uric acid and repairing
 5 damaged kidney cells
          ( 1 ) Material
         Small molecule peptide: sunflower small molecule peptide prepared in embodiment 1.
        Yeast extract: from the Oxiod company of the UK.
         Oxonic acid potassium salt: from the Sigma company of the US; lot number: 101310713.
 0      Allopurinol tablets:     Shimao Tianjie Pharmaceutical        (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd.; lot number:
   201608301.
        Mouse uric acid detection kit: Nanjing Jiancheng Institute of Biological Engineering.
         SPF KM mouse: male, body weight (22-25)g, provided by the Experimental Animal Center
   of the First Hospital of Jilin University.
25         (2) Modeling drug delivery
        Before the study, the mice are weighed, 12 of which are served as the blank control group, and
   the remaining are the hyperuricemia modeling group. Weigh in daily morning during the
   experiment. The modeling experiment is to use the yeast paste gavage method, by giving a large
   number of purine substances to increase the uric acid value to cause purine metabolic disorders, so
30 as to achieve the effect of a short-time, temporary increase in the blood uric acid value. Fifty mice
   are randomly divided into 4 groups, each group of about 12, which are blank group, model group,
   sunflower disk small molecule peptide group, and allopurinol group respectively. During the
   modeling period, except for the blank group (equal volume of water gavage), the other groups are
   fed with 20g/kg yeast extract orally once a day for consecutive 7 days. The animals are fasted at
35 night on the 7th day, and on the next morning the blood is taken to measure the blood UA value.
                                                       5

   From the 9th day on, the mice in the blank group are given the same volume of water gavage.
   According to the results of the blood uric acid test, 12 mice are randomly selected as the model
   group. The rest are divided into two groups. In the morning, the yeast extract gavage is
   administered continuously. Gavage of the drug group is administered in the afternoon, continuously
 5 for 7 days, fasted at night on the 7th day. On the next morning the blood is taken to measure the
   blood uric acid value.
   Each group of mice is administered according to Table 1.
         Table 1 Drugs in each group of modeling administration gavage
                                                           Sunflower small
                   Blank group      Model group        molecule peptide group     Allopurinol group
       1-8
                                                             yeast extract           yeast extract
       days           water          yeast extract
      9-15                                               yeast extract + small      yeast extract +
       days           water          yeast extract        molecule peptide            allopurinol
 0        (3) Before modeling, after modeling and after administration, the level of blood uric acid is
   measured
         The blood uric acid level ( mol/L) in each group of mice is measured before modeling, after
   modeling and after administration, and the results are shown in Table 2.
         Table 2 Blood uric acid value (pmol/L) of each group before modeling, after modeling and
 5 after administration
                                  Before modeling            After modeling      After administration
          Blank group                  230.99                    235.59                 298.32
          Model group                  252.89                    364.38                  336.38
        Sunflower small
       molecule peptide                285.58                    497.83                  149.51
              group
       Allopurinol group               239.38                    409.68                   91.75
         By gavage administration of hyperuricemia model mice, after continuous administration for 7
   days, it is found that the allopurinol group and small molecule peptide group have a certain ability
   to reduce uric acid, P<0.05, with significant differences.
20       As can be seen from Table 2, the uric acid levels of the mice in each group before modeling
   are similar, and the blood uric acid value of the model group, the sunflower small molecule peptide
   group and the allopurinol group increases significantly after modeling, indicating that the modeling
                                                       6

   is successful; After administration, the blood uric acid of the sunflower small molecule peptide
   group and the allopurinol group decreases, even lower than that before modeling. Among them, the
   post-administration blood uric acid value of the sunflower small molecule group is decreased by
   70% after modeling while that of the allopurinol group is decreased by 78% after modeling,
 5 indicating that the sunflower small molecule peptide group and the allopurinol group are similar in
   the ability to reduce blood uric acid. It shows that the sunflower powder small molecule peptide can
   significantly reduce the blood uric acid value of the hyperuricemia model mice, and can achieve the
   purpose of hyperuricemia treatment.
          (4) Test the effect of drugs on the kidney in immunehistochemical experiment
 0        []After the tissue is immersed in paraffin wax, the tissue is moved into a paraffin wax capsule
   used for embedding before embedding. Remove it from the incubator, put it on a tripod, and light
   the alcohol lamp underneath to maintain the paraffin wax dissolved.
         DAfter preparing the embedding frame, heat the embedding tweezers on the alcohol lamp
   (prevent the tweezers from sticking wax), hold the wax cup in the left hand, and put the warm
 5 tweezers in the wax mouth (upright). When the wax is poured, it is injected into the embedding
   frame along the tweezers.
         [ Tweezer quickly the tissue block and put it in the wax of the embedding frame, to the frame
   bottom with the cut face facing downward, and gently press it flat to ensure that there are no more
   bubbles.
 0       OBefore the wax surface is solidified, attach the label to it. Be careful not to confuse the label
   with the specimen. When the wax block is cold to the degree that there is a layer of transparent wax
   film on the wax surface, immerse it in cold water to cool it rapidly, otherwise the wax often forms
   crystals.
         DAfter the wax block is completely hardened, remove the copper frame, so as to ensure
25 complete solidification of the wax. Then immediately trim it.
         OTake out the slice, stain it with the immunohistochemistry kit, and observe the cell
   morphology of the sectioned tissue under a microscope and photograph it.
         The experimental results are shown in Figure 1 to 4. The blank group (Figure 1) glomeruli are
   normal, the tubular epithelial cells are full, arranged in neat rows, there is no tubular dilation, the
30 lumen is clear, and there is no inflammation or fibrosis. There is no difference in the number of
   glomeruli in the model group (Figure 2), the tubular lumens expand, the cavitation, atrophy and
   necrosis of the epithelial cells occur, infiltration of inflammatory cells can be seen, and protein cast
   and cell cast are visible in the lumens. There is no significant difference between the sunflower
   small molecule peptide group (Figure 3) and the blank group in the staining effect, indicating that
35 the small molecule peptide administration group's repairing the kidney damaged cells is the best.
                                                        7

   The allopurinol group (Figure 4) shows renal corticocorticotis cells infiltration, significant tubular
   lumen dilation, and tubular epithelial cell cavitation, indicating that although the allopurinol group
   has the best uric acid lowering ability, it causes more damage to the kidney cells.
         The results of the immunohistochemistry experiment shows that the sunflower small molecule
 5 peptide not only reduces the blood uric acid value of the model mice but also has some
   anti-inflammatory and repair effects on the damaged kidney cells. The sunflower small molecule
   peptide is superior to the positive drug allopurinol. The positive drug allopurinol can only lower the
   blood uric acid value and have certain damage to the kidney cells. It indicates that the sunflower
   small molecule peptide can not only reduce the uric acid value, but also repair the kidney,
 0 addressing both the symptoms and root causes of hyperuricemia, and fundamentally curing the
   disease.
         In the application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine
   decreasing uric acid and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function, the sunflower small
   molecule peptide can play the role of anti-inflammation, subsidence of swelling, pain-relieving,
 5 lowering blood uric acid and dissolving sodium urate, have a good repair effect on the damaged
   cells of the kidney and address both the symptoms and root causes of hyperuricemia, fundamentally
   curing the disease.
         The sequence numbers of the foregoing embodiments of the present invention are merely for
 0 the purpose of description and do not represent the advantages and disadvantages of the
   embodiments.
         The above is only the preferred embodiment of the present invention and not intended to limit
   the present invention. Any modification, equivalent replacement, improvement, etc. within the spirit
   and principle of the present invention should be included in the protection scope of the invention.
25

   Claims
        1. The application of the sunflower small molecule peptide in preparing the medicine
   decreasing uric acid and dissolving chalk stones to repair the kidney function.
        2. As stipulated in claim 1, the application has characteristics as follows: crude protein in
 5 sunflower small molecule peptide mentioned > 93%, relative molecular mass distribution of 80% of
   peptide fragments/u <1000; peptide content being 85.6%, moisture content 3.5 %, and ash content
   7.4%.
        3. As stipulated in claim 1, the application has characteristics as follows: the mentioned
   sunflower small molecule peptide is prepared by the following method:
 0      1) Crush the sunflower disk to 100-200 mesh, add 6-10 times mass of deionized water, stir
   it well, adjust the pH value to 8-9 with sodium hydroxide, stir it at 45-50'C for 120-240
   minutes to obtain sunflower disk separating protein solution;
        2) Heat the sunflower disk separating protein solution to 85-90'C, stir it for 1-3 hours, cool it
   to 45-55'C, add compound protease which is 0.1% -0.3%            of the total volume of the sunflower
 5 disk separating protein solution, and allow enzymolysis for 3-5 hours. As the reaction ends, the
   temperature is raised to 85-90'C in 5 minutes, lasting 5-10 minutes, and then the compound
   protease is inactivated. Reserve the enzymatic hydrolysate for use;
        3) Centrifuge the enzymatic hydrolysate of step 2) for 8-12 minutes at the speed of 5000
   revolutions/min, and collect the supernatant to obtain the sunflower protein small molecule peptide
 0 crude liquid;
        4) Treat the sunflower protein small molecule peptide crude liquid of step 3) by ultrafiltration
   using the hollow fiber membrane whose cut-off molecular weight is 5000-20000 to remove the
   macromolecular protein to obtain sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution;
        5) Concentrate the sunflower disk small molecule peptide solution of Step 4) to one-fourth to
25 one-half of the original volume, spray and dry it to obtain sunflower small molecule peptide.
30
                                                      10



