                            PHARMACEUTICAL COMBINATION
                                             Abstract
       The present invention relates to a combination comprising as components (a) at least one
3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol compound, and (b) at least one
antiepileptic, a pharmaceutical formulation and a dosage form comprising said combination as
well as a method of treating pain, e.g. neuropathic pain, wherein components (a) and (b) are
administered simultaneously or sequentially to a mammal, whereby component (a) may be
administered before or after component (b) and whereby components (a) or (b) are administered
to the mammal either via the same or a different pathway of administration.

                                                 1
                                   Pharmaceutical combination
 The present application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, the entire specification of which is
 incorporated herein by cross-reference.
The present invention relates to a combination comprising as components (a) at least
one 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methy-propyl)-phenoI compound, and (b) at least
one antlepileptic, a pharmaceutical formulation and a dosage forn comprising said
combination as well as a method of treating pain, e.g. neuropathic pain, wherein
components (a) and (b) are administered simultaneously or sequentially to a
mammal, whereby component (a) may be administered before or after component (b)
and whereby components (a) or (b) are administered to the mammal either via the
same or a different pathway of administration.
The treatment of chronic and acute pain conditions is extremely important in
medicine. There is currently a worldwide demand for additional, not exclusively
opioid-based, but highly effective pain treatment. The urgent need for action for
patient-odented and purposeful treatment of pain conditions, this being taken to
mean the successful and satisfactory treatment of pain for the patient, Is documented
in the large number of scienttic papers which have recently appeared in the field of
applied analgesics and fundamental research work on nociception.
  Even if the analgesics that are currently used for treating pain, for example opioids,
  NA- and 5HT-reuptake inhibitors, NSAIDS and COX inhibitors, are analgesically
 effective, side effects nevertheless sometimes occur. WO 01113904 describes
 substance combinations comprising a tramadol material and an anticonvulsant drug,
 which show super-additive effects upon administration. Due to the super-additive
 effect the overall dose and accordingly the risk of undesired side effects can be
 reduced.
 Thus, It was an object of the present invention to find further combinations having
 improved properties. It was also an object of the present Invention to find further
 combinations that are suitable for the treatment of pain and which preferably exhibit
 fewer undesired side effects compared to its individual components, if administered
 in effective doses.

 It has been found that a combination comprising (a) at least one 3-(3-Dimethylamino
 1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol compound, and (b) at least one antiepileptic exhibits
 an analgesic effect. If these components are present in the composition in such a
 weight ratio that a supra-additive or synergistic effect is observed upon administration
 to the patients, the overall administered dose may be lowered, so that fewer
 undesired side-effects will occur.
Accordingly, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical combination
comprising as components
(a)     3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol of formula (1)
                                                       OH
                                                          N
                                                 (1),
        optionally in form of one of its pure stereoisomers, in particular an enantiomer
        or a diastereomer, a racemate or in form of a mixture of its stereoisomers, in
        particular enantiomers and/or diastereomers in any mixing ratio, or any
        corresponding acid addition salt thereof, and
(b)     at least one antiepileptic.
In one embodiment of the inventive combination the compound of formula (1)is
selected from
      (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
      (1S,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
      (1R,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
                                              2

      (1S,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, and any mixture
      thereof.
 In another embodiment of the inventive combination the compound of formula (1) is
 selected from
      (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, and
      (1S,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, and any mixture
      thereof.
 In yet another embodiment the inventive combination comprises
(a)     the compound (1 R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol of
        formula (I'),
                                                  OH
                                                      N
        or an acid addition salt thereof, and
(b)     at least one antiepileptic.
The compound 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol of formula (1), its
stereoisomers and corresponding salts thereof as well as methods for their
preparation are well known, for example, from US 6,248,737 B1.   The respective parts
of the description are hereby incorporated by reference and form part of the present
disclosure.
                                              3

 The definition of component (a) as used herein includes 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl
 2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, derivatives thereof and stereoisomers thereof in any
  possible form, thereby particularly including solvates and polymorphs, salts, in
  particular acid addition salts and corresponding solvates and polymorphs.
 The term derivative as used herein particularly includes prodrugs such as ethers and
 esters of the active substance. Suitable methods for selecting and preparing a pro
 drug of a given substance are for example described in "Textbook of Drug Design
 and Discovery",   3 rd edition, 2002, chapter 14, pages 410-458, Editors: Krogsgaard
 Larsen et al., Taylor and Francis. The respective parts of said literature description
 are incorporated by reference and form part of the present disclosure.
 If component (a) is present as mixture of enantiomers, such a mixture may contain
 the enantiomers in racemic or non-racemic form. A non-racemic form could, for
 example, contain the enantiomers in a ratio of 60±5:40±5, 70±5:30±5, 80±5:20±5 or
 90±5:10±5.
 The compound 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol and its
 stereoisomers according to component (a) may be present in the inventive
 pharmaceutical composition in form of an acid addition salt, whereby any suitable
 acid capable of forming such an addition salt may be used.
The conversion of 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol into a
corresponding addition salt, for example, via reaction with a suitable acid may be
effected in a manner well known to those skilled in the art. Suitable acids include but
are not limited to hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, methanesulfonic
acid, formic acid, acetic acid, oxalic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, mandelic acid,
fumaric acid, lactic acid, citric acid, glutamic acid and/or aspartic acid. Salt formation
is preferably effected in a solvent, for example, diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, alkyl
acetates, acetone and/or 2-butanone. Moreover, trimethylchlorosilane in aqueous
solution is also suitable for the preparation of hydrochlorides.
                                               4

Antiepileptics, which are often also referred to as anticonvulsants, are well known in
the art and include, without limitation, barbiturates and derivatives, such as
 methylphenobarbital, phenobarbital, primidone, barbexaclone and metharbital;
 hydantoin derivatives such as ethotoin, phenytoin, amino(diphenylhydantoin) valeric
acid, mephenytoin and fosphenytoin; oxazolidine derivatives such as
paramethadione, trimethadione and ethadione; succinimide derivatives such as
ethosuximide, phensuximide and mesuximide; benzodiazepine derivatives such as
clonazepam; carboxamide derivatives such as carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine,
eslicarbazepine and rufinamide; fatty acid derivatives such as valproic acid,
valpromide, aminobutyric acid, vigabatrin, progabide and tiagabine; or other
antiepileptics such as sultiame, phenacemide, lamotrigine, felbamate, topiramate,
gabapentin, pheneturide, levetiracetam, brivaracetam, selectracetam, zonisamide,
pregabalin, stiripentol, lacosamide and beclamide.
These afore mentioned classes of antiepileptics and most of their individual
representatives are, for example, listed in the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical
(ATC) classification under [N03] as used by the WHO for classification of
pharmaceutically active ingredients (preferred edition: January 2008 or 2009). With
regard to further details of the ATC-index reference is made to U. Fricke, J. Gunther,
Anatomisch-therapeutisch-chemische Klassifikation mit Tagesdosen for den
deutschen Arzneimittelmarkt: Methodik der ATC-Klassifikation und DDD-Festlegung.
ATC-Index mit DDD-Angaben, Wissenschaftliches Institut der AOK; and Swiss
Pharmaceutical Society, Index Nominum: International Drug Directory, CRC Press;
18th edition (January 31, 2004).
Other suitable antiepileptics include, for example, mexiletin, retigabin and ralfinamide.
Some antiepileptics are known to be useful in the treatment of neuropathic pain. In
one embodiment of the present invention one or more of these antiepileptics is used
as component (b).
Also included are stereoisomers, salts, solvates, polymorphs and derivatives of the
antiepileptic component as well as mixtures of any of the foregoing.
                                             5

 In one embodiment of the inventive combination the antiepileptic according to
 component (b) is selected from the group consisting of pregabalin, gabapentin,
 topiramate, lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbamazepine, eslicarbazepine,
 mexiletin, lacosamide, phenytoin, levetiracetam, brivaracetam, selectracetam,
 retigabin, valproic acid and ralfinamide.
 In another embodiment of the inventive combination the antiepileptic according to
 component (b) is selected from the group consisting of pregabalin, gabapentin,
topiramate, lamotrigine, carbamazepine, mexiletin, lacosamide, phenytoin,
 levetiracetam, retigabin, valproic acid and ralfinamide.
 In another embodiment of the inventive combination the antiepileptic according to
component (b) is pregabalin.
 In yet another embodiment of the inventive combination the antiepileptic according to
component (b) is (S)-pregabalin.
A specific embodiment of the present invention is a combination comprising (a)
(1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, or an acid addition salt
thereof such as the hydrochloride addition salt, and (b) one or more antiepileptics
selected from the group consisting of pregabalin, gabapentin, topiramate,
lamotrigine, carbamazepine, oxcarbamazepine, eslicarbazepine, mexiletin,
lacosamide, phenytoin, levetiracetam, brivaracetam, selectracetam, retigabin,
valproic acid and ralfinamide.
A specific embodiment of the present invention is a combination comprising (a)
(1 R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, or an acid addition salt
thereof such as the hydrochloride addition salt, and (b) one or more antiepileptics
selected from the group consisting of pregabalin, gabapentin, topiramate,
lamotrigine, carbamazepine, mexiletin, lacosamide, phenytoin, levetiracetam,
retigabin, valproic acid and ralfinamide.
                                             6

Another specific embodiment of the present invention is a combination comprising (a)
 (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, or an acid addition salt
thereof such as the hydrochloride addition salt, and (b) pregabalin.
Yet another specific embodiment of the present invention is a combination
comprising (a) (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, or an
acid addition salt thereof such as the hydrochloride addition salt, and (b) (S)
pregabalin.
Some antiepileptics comprise functional groups, for example, acidic groups such as
carboxy groups which are capable of forming salts with the 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1
ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol component of formula (I), thereby incorporating both
components (a) and (b) in one and the same salt.
Thus, in another embodiment of the present invention the inventive combination
comprises components (a) and (b) in form of a salt formed from these two
components. Such a salt formation may be partial, i.e. the inventive composition
comprises one or both of these components also in their non-salt form, or the salt
formation may essentially be complete.
Both components (a) and (b) as part of the inventive combination may be
administered in amounts up to their maximum daily dosage, which is known to those
skilled in the art. The compound Pregabalin may preferably be administered to a
patient in a daily dosage of 1 to 1200 mg, the compound Gabapentin may preferably
be administered to a patient in a daily dosage of 1 to 5000 mg.
The compound (1 R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol may
preferably be administered to a patient in a daily dosage of 25 to 1000 mg,
particularly preferably in a dosage of 50 to 800 mg, more particularly preferably in a
dosage of 100 to 600 mg.
When administered as part of the inventive combination the administered amount per
day of component (a) and/or component (b) may be less than the respective
maximum daily dosage and be, for example, 75±15 wt.-%, 75±10 wt.-%, 75±5 wt.-%,
                                            7

 50±15 wt.-%, 50±10 wt.-%, 50+5 wt.-%, 25±15 wt.-%, 25+10 wt.-% and 25±5 wt.-%
for each of the components.
 In another embodiment of the present invention the inventive combination may
contain components (a) and (b) essentially in an equieffective ratio.
 In yet a further embodiment of the inventive combination components (a) and (b) are
present in such a weight ratio that the resulting composition will exert a supra
additive or synergistic effect upon administration to a patient. Suitable weight ratios
can be determined by methods well known to those skilled in the art.
Both components (a) and (b) may also be present in the inventive combination in
ratios deviating from the equieffective ratio. For, example, each of the components
could be present in a range from 1/50 of the equieffective amount to 50 times the
equieffective amount, from 1/20 of the equieffective amount to 20 times the
equieffective amount, from 1/10 of the equieffective amount to 10 times the
equieffective amount, from 1/5 of the equieffective amount to 5 times the
equieffective amount, from 1/4 of the equieffective amount to 4 times the
equieffective amount, from 1/3 of the equieffective amount to 3 times the
equieffective amount, or from 1/2 of the equieffective amount to 2 times the
equieffective amount.
In another embodiment of the present invention the components (a) and (b) can be
administered in a specific dosage regimen to treat pain, for example, neuropathic
pain. Components (a) and (b) may be administered simultaneously or sequentially to
one another, in each case via the same or different administration pathways.
Another aspect of the present invention is therefore a method of treating pain,
characterized in that components (a) and (b) are administered simultaneously or
sequentially to a mammal, wherein component (a) may be administered before or
after component (b) and wherein components (a) or (b) are administered to the
mammal either via the same or a different pathway of administration.
                                            8

 The term pain as used herein includes but is not limited to inflammatory pain,
 neuropathic pain, acute pain, chronic pain, visceral pain, migraine pain and cancer
 pain.
 Suitable pathways of administration include but are not limited to oral, intravenous,
 intraarterial, intraperitoneal, intradermal, transdermal, intrathekal, intramuscular,
 intranasal, transmucosal, subcutaneous, and rectal administration.
 The inventive combinations are toxicologically safe and are therefore suitable for the
 treatment of mammals, particularly humans including infants, children and grown
 ups.
 Thus, in a further aspect the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical
 composition comprising an inventive combination as described herein and one or
 more auxiliary agents.
 In a further aspect the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical dosage form
 comprising an inventive combination as described herein and one or more auxiliary
agents.
 In one embodiment the inventive pharmaceutical dosage form additionally comprises
caffeine.
 In one embodiment, the inventive pharmaceutical dosage form is suitable for being
administered orally, intravenously, intraarterially, intraperitoneally, intradermally,
transdermally, intrathekally, intramuscularly, intranasally, transmucosally,
subcutaneously, or rectally.
The inventive formulations and dosage forms may contain auxiliary agents, for
example, carriers, fillers, solvents, diluents, colorants and/or binders. The selection of
auxiliary agents and of the amounts of the same to be used depends, for example,
on how the drug is to be administered, e.g. orally, intravenously, intraarterially,
intraperitoneally, intradermally, transdermally, intramuscularly, intranasally or locally,
for example for infections of the skin, of the mucous membranes or of the eye.
                                                9

 Suitable auxiliary agents in the context of this invention are in particular any
 substances known to a person skilled in the art useful for the preparation of galenical
 formulations. Examples of suitable auxiliary agents include but are not limited to:
 water, ethanol, 2-propanol, glycerol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyethylene
 glycol, polypropylene glycol, glucose, fructose, lactose, saccharose, dextrose,
 molasses, starch, modified starch, gelatine, sorbitol, inositol, mannitol,
 microcrystalline cellulose, methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, cellulose
 acetate, shellac, cetyl alcohol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, paraffins, waxes, natural and
 synthetic gums, acacia gum, alginates, dextran, saturated and unsaturated fatty
 acids, stearic acid, magnesium stearate, zinc stearate, glycerol stearate, sodium
 lauryl sulphate, edible oils, sesame oil, coconut oil, peanut oil, soybean oil, lecithin,
 sodium lactate, polyoxyethylene and polypropylene fatty acid ester, sorbitan fatty acid
 ester, sorbic acid, benzoic acid, citric acid, ascorbic acid, tannic acid, sodium
 chloride, potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, calcium chloride, magnesium
 oxide, zinc oxide, silicon dioxide, titanium oxide, titanium dioxide, magnesium
 sulphate, zinc sulphate, calcium sulphate, potash, calcium phosphate, dicalcium
 phosphate, potassium bromide, potassium iodide, talcum, kaolin, pectin,
 crosspovidone, agar and bentonite.
 Pharmaceutical formulations (dosage forms) in the form of tablets, effervescent
tablets, chewing tablets, dragees, capsules, drops, juices or syrups are, for example,
 suitable for oral administration. Oral pharmaceutical formulations may also be in the
form of multiparticulates such as granules, pellets, spheres, crystals and the like,
optionally compressed into a tablet, filled into a capsule, filled into a sachet or
suspended in a suitable liquid medium. Oral pharmaceutical formulations may also
be equipped with an enteric coating.
Pharmaceutical formulations that are suitable for parenteral, topical and inhalative
administration include but are not limited to solutions, suspensions, easily
reconstitutable dry preparations and sprays.
Suppositories are a suitable pharmaceutical formulation for rectal administration.
Formulations in a deposit, in dissolved form, for example, in a patch optionally with
the addition of agents to promote skin penetration, are examples of suitable
                                              10

formulations for percutaneous administration.
 One or both of the components (a) and (b) may be present in the inventive
 pharmaceutical formulation at least partially in controlled-release form. Moreover, any
controlled release/immediate release combination of said components may also be
 present in the inventive pharmaceutical formulation. For example, one or both of the
components may be released from the inventive formulations with a certain delay,
e.g. if administered orally, rectally or percutaneously. Such formulations are
 particularly useful for "once-daily" or "twice-daily" preparations, which only have to be
taken once a day, respectively, twice a day. Suitable controlled-release materials are
well known to those skilled in the art.
The inventive pharmaceutical formulations may be produced using materials, means,
devices and processes that are well known in the prior art of pharmaceutical
formulations, as described for example in "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences",
A.R. Gennaro (ed.),    17 * edition, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa. (1985), in
particular in part 8, chapters 76 to 93.
 In order to obtain a solid pharmaceutical formulation such as a tablet, for example,
the components of the pharmaceutical composition may be granulated with a
pharmaceutical carrier, for example conventional tablet ingredients such as corn
starch, lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, talcum, magnesium stearate, dicalcium
phosphate or pharmaceutically acceptable gums, and pharmaceutical diluents, for
example water, in order to form a solid composition that contains the components in
homogeneous distribution. The term "homogeneous distribution" is taken to mean
that the components are distributed uniformly over the entire composition, so that
said composition may easily be divided into equally effective unit dose forms, such as
tablets, pills or capsules and the like. The solid composition is then divided into unit
dose forms. The tablets or pills of the pharmaceutical composition according to the
invention may also be coated or compounded in a different manner, in order to
provide a dose form with a controlled release.
                                              11

 If one of the components is to be released prior to the other component, for example
at least 30 minutes or 1 hour beforehand, pharmaceutical formulations having a
corresponding release profile may be prepared. An example of such a formulation is
an osmotically driven release system for achieving a delayed release of one
component via a coating that itself contains the other component which is accordingly
released earlier. In a release system of this kind, which is particularly suitable for oral
administration, at least part, and preferably all, of the surface of the release system,
preferably those parts that will come into contact with the release medium, is/are
semipermeable, preferably equipped with a semipermeable coating, so the surface(s)
is/are permeable to the release medium, but substantially, preferably entirely,
impermeable to the active ingredient, the surface(s) and/or optionally the coating
comprising at least one opening for releasing the active ingredient. Moreover,
precisely that/those surface(s) that is/are in contact with the release medium is/are
provided with a coating containing and releasing the other component. This is
preferably taken to mean a system in tablet form comprising a release opening, an
osmotic pharmaceutical composition core, a semipermeable membrane and a
polymer portion that exerts pressure upon swelling. A suitable example of this kind of
system is the system distributed by ALZA Corporation, USA under the tradenames
OROS@, in particular, the OROS@ Push-PulITM System, the OROS@ Delayed Push
PullTM System, the OROS@ Multi-Layer Push-PullTM system, the OROS@ Push-Stick
System and also, in specific cases, the L-OROSTM.
Embodiments and examples of osmotically driven release systems are, for example,
disclosed in US patents 4,765,989, 4,783,337 and 4,612,008, all of the respective
contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference and form part of the
disclosure of the present invention.
A further example of a suitable pharmaceutical formulation is a gel-matrix tablet, such
as the products developed by Penwest Pharmaceuticals (for example, under
TimeRX). Suitable examples are provided in US patents 5,330,761, 5,399,362,
5,472,711 and 5,455,046, all of the respective contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference and form part of the disclosure of the present invention.
Particularly suitable is a retarding matrix formulation, with an inhomogeneous
distribution of the pharmaceutically active composition, whereby, for example, one
                                             12

 component can be distributed in the outer region (the portion that comes into contact
with the release medium most quickly) of the matrix and the other component is
distributed inside the matrix. On contact with the release medium, the outer matrix
 layer initially (and rapidly) swells and firstly releases the first component, followed by
the significantly (more) retarded release of the other component. Examples of a
suitable matrix include matrices with 1 to 80 % by weight of one or more hydrophilic
or hydrophobic polymers as pharmaceutically acceptable matrix formers. A further
example of a suitable matrix may be inferred from US 4,389,393 the respective
contents of which hereby being incorporated by reference and forming part of the
disclosure of the present invention.
The amount of the inventive pharmaceutically active combination to be administered
to the patient may vary depending on different factors well known to those skilled in
the art, for example, the weight of the patient, the route of administration, or the
severity of the illness.
In a further aspect the present invention relates to the use of an inventive
combination as described herein for the treatment of pain, said pain preferably
including but not being limited to inflammatory pain, neuropathic pain, acute pain,
chronic pain, visceral pain, migraine pain and cancer pain.
In another aspect the present invention relates to the use of an inventive combination
as described herein for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of pain,
said pain preferably including but not being limited to inflammatory pain, neuropathic
pain, acute pain, chronic pain, visceral pain, migraine pain and cancer pain.
In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating pain in a
mammal, preferably a human, which comprises administering an effective amount of
an inventive combination as described herein to the mammal.
                                                13

 Pharmacological methods:
 In vivo experiments according to Chung
 The weight ratios of components (a) and (b) that will lead to a supra-additive
 effect/synergistic effect of the inventive compositions may be determined in the test
 of Kim & Chung as described in Kim SH, Chung JM. An experimental model for
 peripheral mononeuropathy produced by segmental spinal nerve ligation in the rat.
 Pain 1992; 50: 355-63. Said reference is hereby incorporated by reference and forms
 part of the disclosure.
 Ligatures were applied to the left L5/L6 spinal nerves of male Sprague-Dawley rats
 (140-160 g body weight, Janvier, Genest St. Isle, France). Animals developed tactile
 allodynia at the ipsilateral paw. Three to four weeks after the operation the tactile
 allodynia threshold baseline (withdrawal threshold) was measured on the ipsilateral
 and contralateral hind paw by an electronic von Frey anaesthesiometer (Somedic,
 Schweden). After test and measurement of the baseline, (1R,2R)-3-(3
 Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as tapentadol hydrochloride or tapentadol-HCI), (S)-pregabalin as well as the
 inventive combination of tapentadol-HCI and (S)-pregabalin were each dissolved in
0.9 % NaCl solution and injected by the intravenous (i.v.) route (application volume 5
 ml/kg). Animals were randomly assigned to groups of 10 for each test dose and
vehicle (0.9 % NaCl solution) and tactile withdrawal thresholds were tested 0.5 h
before administration and on several time points (0.5, 1 and 3 hours) after
intravenous administration. Ipsi- and contralateral hindpaws were tested. The median
of the withdrawal threshold for each animal at a given time is calculated from five
individual stimulations with the electronic von Frey filament. Withdrawal thresholds of
the injured paws are expressed as % MPE (Maximum possible effect) comparing
predrug threshold of Chung-Animals (= 0 % MPE) and control threshold of sham
animals (100 % MPE). A cut-off is set at 100 % MPE. The effect of each compound
and vehicle is calculated for each testing time point as interindividual % MPE value.
Data (anti-allodynic efficacy (% MPE), ipsi-lateral, paw withdrawal threshold (g), ipsi
and conralateral) were analysed by means of a two-factor analysis of variance
(ANOVA) with repeated measures. In case of a significant treatment effect, post hoc
                                             14

 analysis with Bonferroni adjustment was performed. Results were considered
 statistically significant if P < 0.05. ED5o values and 95 % confidence intervals (95 %
 Cl) were determined for the anti-allodynic efficacy (% MPE) at the time of the peak
 effect for each drug by regression analysis.
 The analysis of the results was carried out via statistical comparison of the theoretical
 additive ED50-value with the experimentally determined ED 5o-value of a so-called
fixed ratio combination (isobolographic analysis according to Tallarida RJ, Porreca F,
 and Cowan A. Statistical analysis of drug-drug and site-site interactions with
 isobolograms. Life Sci 1989; 45: 947-61, which is hereby incorporated by reference
 and forms part of the present disclosure).
 Results:
Tapentadol hydrochloride (0.1, 0.316, 1, 3.16 and 10 mg/kg i.v.) showed a dose
dependent increase in the withdrawal threshold of the ipsi-lateral hind paw with an
efficacy of 94 % MPE and an ED5o-value (95 % confidence interval) of 1.65 (1.20
2.35) mg/kg i.v. calculated from the peak effect vs. control values at 30 min. after
administration.
(S)-Pregabalin (0.1, 3.16 and 10 mg/kg i.v.) showed a dose dependent increase in
the withdrawal threshold of the ipsi-lateral hind paw with an efficacy of 67% MPE and
an ED5o-value (95 % confidence interval) of 4.20 (3.37 - 5.43) mg/kg i.v. calculated
from the peak effect vs. control values at 30 min. after administration.
Tapentadol hydrochloride and (S)-pregabalin show a potency difference which
amounts to a factor 2.5 based on the ED 50 values 30 minutes after administration.
Combinations in a fixed ratio of 1 : 2.5 (tapentadol hydrochloride : (S)-pregabalin)
were tested in doses of 0.1 mg/kg + 0.25 mg/kg; 0.3 mg/kg + 0.75 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg +
2.5 mg/kg i.v. tapentadol hydrochloride + (S)-pregabalin, respectively. These
combinations showed a dose dependent increase in the withdrawal threshold of the
ipsi-lateral hind paw. The highest dose combination tested showed full efficacy with
89 % MPE. Potency was quantified by an ED 5o value (95 % confidence interval) of
0.83 (0.74 - 0.92) mg/kg i.v. calculated from the peak effect vs control values at 30
min after administration.
                                               15

 The results of the isobolographic analysis are summarized in the following table 1.
 Table 1:
 Experimental ED5o values of tapentadol hydrochloride and (S)-pregabalin and
 isobolographic analysis of the interaction between tapentadol hydrochloride and (S)
 pregabalin:
                                                 Theoretical Experimental interaction
                     tapentadol-        (S)-      ED5o of the  ED5o of the
                          HCI       pregabalin   combination combination of
                                                       of     tapentadol
                                                 tapentadol- HCI and (S)
                                                 HCI and (S)-  pregabalin
                                                  pregabalin
       Substance      1.65 (1.20-  4.20 (3.37 -   2.91 (2.28-  0.83 (0.74-   synergistic
          / EDso         2.35)         5.43)         3.54)        0.92)       (p<0.001)
       [mg/kg i.v.]
          (95 %
      confidence
         interval)
p: Level of statistical significance
The experimental ED5o value (95 % confidence interval) of 0.83 (0.74 - 0.92) mg/kg
i.v. of the inventive combination is below the theoretical additive ED 50 value (95 %
confidence interval) of 2.91 (2.28 - 3.54) mg/kg i.v. and is statistically significant
(p<0.001) as compared to the line of additivity. Thus, the interaction of tapentadol
hydrochloride and (S)-pregabalin is synergistic.
Analysis of contra-lateral paw withdrawal thresholds reveal significant anti
nociceptive effects of tapentadol hydrochloride and (S)-pregabalin at 10 mg/kg i.v.
while no significant anti-nociceptive effect was seen at the highest dose of the
inventive combination. Thus, synergistic anti-allodynic activity of tapentadol
hydrochloride and (S)-pregabalin result in reduced anti-nociceptive side effects.
                                              16

Claims:
1.  A combination comprising as component(s):
     (a) at least one 3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol of formula
         (1),
                                                    OH
                                                      N
                                              (1)
         optionally in form of one of its stereoisomers, in particular an enantiomer
         or a diastereomer, a racemate or in form of a mixture of its stereoisomers,
          in particular enantiomers and/or diastereomers in any mixing ratio, or any
         corresponding acid addition salt thereof, and
    (b) at least one antiepileptic.
2.  Combination according to claim 1, characterized in that the compound of
    formula (1)is selected from
    (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
    (1S,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
    (1R,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
    (1S,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, and any mixture
    thereof.
                                           17

3. Combination according to claim 2, characterized in that the compound of
   formula (1) is selected from
   (1 R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol,
   (1S,2S)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1-ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol, and any mixture
   thereof.
4. Combination according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the compound of
   formula (1) is (1R,2R)-3-(3-Dimethylamino-1 -ethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-phenol of
   formula (I'),
                                                OH
                                             .       N
                                         (')
   or an acid addition salt thereof, whereby the acid addition salt of hydrochloride is
   preferred.
5. Combination according to any of claims 1-4, characterized in that the
   antiepileptic is selected from the group consisting of methylphenobarbital,
   phenobarbital, primidone, barbexaclone, metharbital, ethotoin, phenytoin,
   amino(diphenylhydantoin) valeric acid, mephenytoin, fosphenytoin,
   paramethadione, trimethadione, ethadione, ethosuximide, phensuximide,
   mesuximide, clonazepam, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, eslicarbazepine,
   rufinamide, valproic acid, valpromide, aminobutyric acid, vigabatrin, progabide,
   tiagabine, sultiame, phenacemide, lamotrigine, felbamate, topiramate,
   gabapentin, pheneturide, levetiracetam, brivaracetam, selectracetam,
   zonisamide, pregabalin, stiripentol, lacosamide, beclamide, mexiletin, retigabin
   and ralfinamide.
                                          18

6.   Combination according to claim 5, characterized in that the antiepileptic is
     selected from the group consisting of pregabalin, gabapentin, topiramate,
     lamotrigine, carbamazepine, mexiletin, lacosamide, phenytoin, levetiracetam,
     retigabin, valproic acid and ralfinamide.
7.   Combination according to any of claims 1-6, characterized in that components
     (a) and (b) are present as a salt formed from these two components.
8.   Combination according to any of claims 1-7, characterized in that components
     (a) and (b) are present in such a weight ratio that the composition will exert a
     synergistic effect upon administration to a patient.
9.  A pharmaceutical composition comprising a combination according to any one
    of claims 1-8 and optionally one or more auxiliary agents.
10. A dosage form comprising a combination according to any one of claims 1-8
    and optionally one or more auxiliary agents.
11. A dosage form according to claim 10, characterized in that it is suitable for oral,
    intravenous, intraarterial, intraperitoneal, intradermal, transdermal, intrathekal,
    intramuscular, intranasal, transmucosal, subcutaneous, or rectal administration.
12. A dosage form according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in that one or both of
    the components (a) and (b) is/are present in controlled-release form.
13. A dosage form according to any one of claims 10-12, characterized in that it
    additionally comprises caffeine.
14. Use of a combination according to any one of claims 1-8 for the preparation of a
    medicament for the treatment of pain.
15. Use according to claim 14, characterised in that the pain is selected from
    inflammatory pain, neuropathic pain, acute pain, chronic pain, visceral pain,
    migraine pain and cancer pain.
                                            19

                                            20
16. A method of treating pain in a mammal, which comprises administering an
     effective amount of a combination according to any one of claims 1-8 to the
     mammal.
17. A method according to claim 10, characterized in that component (a) and
    component (b) of the combination are administered simultaneously or
    sequentially to the mammal wherein compound (a) may be administered before
    or after compound (b) and wherein compounds (a) or (b) are administered to the
    mammal either by the same or a different pathway of administration.
18. A method according to claim 16 or 17, characterlsed in that the pain is selected
    from Inflammatory pain, neuropathic pain, acute pain, chronic pain, visceral
    pain, migraine pain and cancer pain.
                                   Grilnenthal GmbH
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                               SPRUSON & FERGUSON

