                                           Abstract
        Systems, methods, and devices for detecting infections in a clinical sample are
provided. Small-volume clinical samples obtained at a point-of-service (POS) location and
may be tested at the POS location for multiple markers for multiple diseases, including upper
and lower respiratory diseases. Samples may be tested for cytokines, or for inflammation
indicators. Dilution of samples, or levels of detection, may be determined by the condition or
past history of a subject. Test results may be obtained within a short amount of time after
sample placement in a testing device, or within a short amount of time after being obtained
from the subject. A prescription for treatment of a detected disorder may be provided, and
may be filled, at the POS location. A bill may be automatically generated for the testing, or
for the prescription, may be automatically sent to an insurance provider, and payment may be
automatically obtained.
14503209_1

          SYSTEMS and METHODS for DETECTING INFECTIOUS DISEASES
BACKGROUND
    [0001]       Infectious diseases, whether or bacterial, viral, or other origin, present acute
and chronic challenges to human health. Many common infections affect the respiratory tract.
Respiratory tract diseases, particularly infectious respiratory diseases of viral and bacterial
origin, are prevalent in patients of all ages, although often are more serious in the very young
and the very old. Viruses include DNA viruses and RNA viruses. Bacteria include Gram
positive and Gram negative bacteria, and may include mycoplasma (bacteria lacking cell
walls). In addition to disease-causing bacteria, some diseases, such as, e.g., respiratory
diseases, may be caused by other microorganisms such as yeasts, fungi, and other small,
disease-causing organisms.
    [0002]       An example of a common viral cause of respiratory (and other) disorders in
patients is the influenza ("flu") virus. Influenza ("flu") refers to disease caused by one of
several related RNA viruses of the Orthomvxoviridae family, typified by fever, headache,
fatigue, and other symptoms. There are different types of influenza influenza A and
influenza B are both about equally prevalent in humans. Identification of the strain of flu in a
sample can help suggest treatments, can help suggest preventive measures to be taken, and
can help to track such infections in a population.
    [0003]           Examples of common bacterial causes of respiratory (and other) disorders
in patients include whooping cough, pneumonia, and tuberculosis. Whooping cough is caused
by Bordetella pertussis and is typified by fits of violent coughing, which may persist for
weeks. Pneumonia is the name given to respiratory disorders characterized by fluid in the
lungs, coughing, fever, vomiting, fatigue, and other symptoms. Pneumonia may be caused by
bacterial or viral infection; determination of the cause of a particular case is critical in
determining the course of treatment of the patient. Causes of pneumonia include
Streptococcus pneumonia, Staphywiococcus aureus, adenovirus, influenza viruses, respiratory
syncytial virus, Pneunocysts,jirovecii (a fungus), and other agents. Tuberculosis is caused
by MIvcobacterium tuberculosis, is typified by cough including spittingtiup blood, chest pain,
chills, fever, night sweats, and other symptoms, and may be fatal.
    [0004]       Agents that cause infectious respiratory diseases typically differ between
upper respiratory tract diseases and lower respiratory tract disorders; thus, the variety or
range of bacterial or viral agents found in patients suffering from upper respiratory disorders
                                                  Page 1

may be different than those bacterial or viral agents found in patients suffering from lower
respiratory disorders. However, successful diagnosis and treatment of respiratory diseases
often requires identification of disease-causing organisms present in a clinical sample
obtained from a subject suffering, or suspected of suffering, from an infectious respiratory
disorder. Differentiating between organisms typical of upper respiratory and those typical of
lower respiratory disorders may also be critical in the successful diagnosis and treatment of
respiratory diseases. In addition, identification of other symptoms and sequelae of respiratory
disorders may aid the successful diagnosis and treatment of respiratory diseases.
    [0005]       Sexually transmitted diseases, whether viral or bacterial, or otherwise, present
particular public health problems since some patients are reluctant to acknowledge the risks
of, or possible exposure to, such diseases, and may be reluctant to be tested for these diseases.
However, lack of testing and resulting lack of information regarding disease status may lead
to increased spread of such diseases, and delays treatment for those affected.
    [00061       Some diseases may be detected by blood tests (e.g., dengue virus, Epstein
Barr virus, trypanosomal diseases, plasmodium diseases, and others). Some diseases may be
detected by analysis of swabs, or fluid obtained from swabs, such as throat swabs, nasal
swabs, cheek swabs, or other swabs. Diseases may also be detected by analysis of urine
samples, and other clinical samples.
    [0007]      In order to be effective in treating such infectious disorders, testing must be
timely. However, present tnethods and systetns for testing are often time-consuming,
inconvenient   for patients, may require sample collection methods or amounts that are painful
or uncomfortable for patients, and may be expensive. Methods that require large amounts of
sample, or that require incubation of a sample for a day or days, are often ineffective at
timely detection or identification of the cause of a respiratory disorder, and thus may not be
helpful in the diagnosis or treatment of infectious respiratory disorders.
    [0008]      In addition, many infectious respiratory disorders present many of the same, or
similar symptoms, so that useful and effective testing requires testing for the presence of
multiple agents, and of multiple kinds of agents (e.g., viral, bacterial, and fungal). However,
present methods are often limited to testing for a single agent or kind of agent, or only a small
number of possible agents, limiting the utility of the results and raising the likelihood that the
causal agent may not be identified.
    [0009]      Thus, improved methods, systems, and assays for the detection and
identification of agents that cause diseases, such as influenza, respiratory diseases, sexually
                                                 Page 2

transmitted diseases, blood diseases. viral diseases, bacterial diseases, and other diseases, are
desired,
INCORPORA TION BY REFERENCE
     [0010]      All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this
specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual
publication, patent, or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be
incorporated by reference.
                                            SUMMARY
     [00111      Systems, methods, and devices for detecting the presence of markers
indicative of one or more of a plurality of infectious agents in a single clinical sample, or in a
plurality of aliquots of a single clinical sample, are provided. The systems, methods, and
devices disclosed herein may be point-of-service systems, methods, and devices, configured
for use at a point-of-service location, where a.point-of-service location may be a location at
which a sample is obtained from a subject.
     [0012]      In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices for testing
for presence of one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious disease in a
single small-volume clinical sample, or aliquots thereof In embodiments, the system,
method, or device is a point-of service (POS) system, method or device, In embodiments, the
sample is collected at the POS location, and is analyzed in a device at the POS location. In
embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample is completed in a short period
of time. In embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease. In
embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease selected from an upper
respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments, the infectious disease
comprises a sexually transmitted disease.
     100131      In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices for
detecting the presence of one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious
disease in a single small-volume clinical sample, or aliquots thereof. In embodiments, the
system, method or device is a POS system, method or device. In embodiments, the sample is
collected at the POS location, and is analyzed in a device at the POS location. In
embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample is completed in a short period
of time.
                                                 Page 3

     [0014]      In embodiments, the infectious disease is a bacterial disease, or a viral disease,
or another type of disease, and the analysis of the sniall-volume clinical sample determines
whether the infectious disease is a bacterial disease, a viral disease, or another type of
disease. The determination of the type of infectious disease aids in determining the type of
treatment to provide to the subject, e.g., where the determination indicates the infectious
disease is a fungal disease, the subject should be treated with anti-fumngal drugs;, where the
determination indicates the infectious disease is a yeast infection, the subject should be
treated with anti-yeast drugs; and so forth.
     [0015]      In embodiments, the infectious disease is a bacterial disease. In embodiments,
the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines whether the infectious disease is
a bacterial disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
determines that the infectious disease is a bacterial disease, said determination indicates the
use of antibiotics in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments, the infectious disease is a
viral disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines
whether the infectious disease is a viral disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the
small-volume clinical sample determines that the infectious disease is a viral disease, said
determination indicates the use of antiviral drugs in the treatment of that disease. In
embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the
infectious disease is a viral disease, said determination indicates that antibiotics should not be
used in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments, the infectious disease is a bacterial
disease, or a viral disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
determines whether the infectious disease is a bacterial disease or a viral disease. Similarly,
where the analysis of the small volume clinical sample determines the infectious disease is a
fingal disease, the subject should be treated with anti-fligal drugs; where the determination
indicates the infectious disease is a yeast infection, the subject should be treated with anti
yeast drugs; and so forth.
     [0016]      In embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease. In
embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease selected from an upper
respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small
volume clinical sample determines whether the infectious disease is an upper respiratory
disease or a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume
clinical sample determines the type of upper respiratory disease or a lower respiratory disease
present in the small volume clinical sample. For example, in embodiments, the upper or
lower respiratory disease is a bacterial disease, or a viral disease, or another type of disease,
                                                 Page 4

and the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines whether the upper or lower
respiratory disease is a bacterial disease, a viral disease, or another type of disease. In
embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the
upper or lower respiratory disease is a bacterial disease, said determination indicates the use
of antibiotics in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the
small-volume clinical sample determines that the upper or lower respiratory disease is a viral
disease, said determination indicates the use of antiviral drugs in the treatment of that disease.
In embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the
upper or lower respiratory disease is a viral disease, said determination indicates that
antibiotics should not be used in the treatment of that disease. Similarly, where the analysis of
the small volume clinical sample determines the upper or lower respiratory disease is a fingal
disease, the subject should be treated with anti-fungal drugs; where the determination
indicates the infectious disease is a yeast infection, the subject should be treated with anti
yeast drugs; and so forth.
     100171     In embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a sexually transmitted
disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines the
type of sexually transmitted disease present in the small volume clinical sample. For
example, in embodiments, the sexually transmitted disease is a bacterial disease, or a viral
disease, or another type of disease, and the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
determines whether the sexually transmitted disease is a bacterial disease, a viral disease, or
another type of disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical
sample determines that the sexually transmitted disease is a bacterial disease, said
determination indicates the use of antibiotics in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments
where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample detennines that the sexually
transmitted disease is a viral disease, said determination indicates the use of antiviral drugs in
the treatment of that disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume clinical
sample determines that the sexually transmitted disease is a viral disease, said determination
indicates that antibiotics should not be used in the treatment of that disease. Similarly, where
the analysis of the small volume clinical sample determines the sexually transmitted disease
is a fungal disease, the subject should be treated with anti-fungal drugs; where the
determination indicates the infectious disease is a yeast infection, the subject should be
treated with anti-yeast drugs; and so forth.
     [0018]     In embodiments of the systems, methods, and devices configured for testing
for a plurality of markers, and in systems, methods or devices configured for detecting a
                                                 Page 5

plurality of markers, the markers may be indicative of respiratory diseases; in embodiments,
the markers may be indicative of upper respiratory diseases; in embodiments, the markers
may be indicative of lower respiratory diseases. In embodiments, Applicants disclose
systems, methods and devices configured for testing for a plurality of markers, wherein the
respiratory disease markers are indicative of two or more of the group of respiratory disease
markers consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis,
mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, and Group B streptococcus. In
embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods and devices configured for testing for a
plurality of markers, wherein the respiratory disease markers are indicative of two or more of
the group of respiratory disease markers consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C,
adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, Bordetella parapertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis
(MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group
A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhais, Enterobacter aerogenes,
Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Metapnuumo Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluetiza
Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus 0C43, Coronavirus
NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU1, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia
phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3. In
embodiments, the respiratory disease markers are indicative of three or more, or of four or
more, or of five or more, or of six or more, or of seven or more, or of eight of that group of
respiratory disease markers.
    10019]      In embodiments of the systems, methods, and devices configured for testing
for a plurality of markers, and in systems, methods, and devices configured for detecting a
plurality of markers, the markers may be indicative of sexually transmitted diseases. In
embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices configured for testing for a
plurality of markers, wherein the sexually transmitted disease markers are indicative of two
or more of the group of markers consisting of herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
immunodeficiencv virus (HIV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum. In embodiments,
Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices configured for testing for a plurality of
markers, wherein the sexually transmitted disease markers are indicative of two or more of
the group of markers consisting of HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2, Group B, HIV- I Group M,
Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (iSV), streptococcus B, and treponema
pallidum. In embodiments, the sexually transmitted disease markers are indicative of three or
more, or four of that group of sexually transmitted disease markers.
                                               Page 6

     [0020]     In embodiments of the systems, methods, and devices configured for testing
for a plurality of markers, and in systems, methods, and devices configured for detecting a
plurality of markers, the markers may be indicative of influenza. In embodiments, Applicants
disclose systems, methods, and devices configured for testing for a plurality of markers,
wherein the influenza markers are indicative of influenza A and of influenza B. In
embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices configured for testing for a
plurality of markers, wherein the influenza markers are indicative of two or more of the group
of markers consisting of the following forms of influenza: H1INI (seasonal), H1iNI (novel),
H3N2, H7N9 (hemagglutinin genetmarker (HA) and neuraminidase gene (NA)), and H5N 1.
In embodiments, the influenza markers are indicative of three or more, or four or more, or
five of that group of influenza markers. In embodiments, the influenza markers may be
influenza Matrix Protein markers, or may be influenza neuraminidase protein markers, or
may be influenza hemagglutinin markers, or other influenza markers. In embodiments, the
analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines whether the infectious disease is an
influenza. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines the
type of influenza present in the small volume clinical sample. In embodiments where the
analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the infectious disease is an
influenza (which is a viral disease), said determination indicates that antibiotics should not be
used in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the small-volume
clinical sample determines that the infectious disease is an influenza, said determination
indicates that antiviral drugs should be used in the treatment of that disease.
     10021      In embodiments of the systems, methods, and devices configured for testing
for a plurality of markers, and in systems, methods, and devices configured for detecting a
plurality of markers, the markers may be indicative of diseases and disease markers which
may be detected by analysis of a blood sample. In embodiments, such diseases and disease
markers which may be detected by analysis of a blood sample include West Nile Virus,
Epstein-Barr Virus, piastmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and Dengue Virus (including types 1,
2, 3, and 4).
     100221      Samples from the throat of a subject may be obtained, e.g., by a throat swab;
samples obtained from the nose of a subject may be obtained, e.g., by a nasal swab. In
embodiments, samples obtained from the throat and from the nose of a subject may be tested
together. In embodiments, testing of samples obtained from the throat, or from the nose, or
from both the nose and from the throat, may be tested by nucleic acid analysis; or by amino
acid analysis (e.g., ELISA or other antibody--based or binding protein-based analysis); or by
                                                Page 7

general chemistry analysis; or by cytometric analysis; or by combinations thereof For
example, samples may be tested by nucleic acid analysis and by amino acid analysis. Such
tests may be used to determine how long a subject has had an infection, for example, by
noting the delay in rise of levels of antibodies indicative of a particular disease in the sample;
or by tracking the rise in the levels of antibodies indicative of a particular disease in the
sample over time (e~g., by repeated testing over time). Similarly, such testing may be used to
detect, or to determine, the effect of treatment, by noting the delay in rise of levels of
antibodies indicative of a particular disease in the sample; or by tracking the rise in the levels
of antibodies indicative of a particular disease in the sample over time (e.g., by repeated
testing over time). In embodiments, samples from throat and from nose may be included in a
single solution, and tested together. In embodiments, samples from throat and from nose may
be in separate vessels (e.g., sample containers), but both included in a single cartridge, and
the separate vessels tested at the same time. Such testing at the same time may comprise
testing the vessels separately, or may include mixing the contents of the vessels and testing
the mixture.
     [0023]     In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices
configured for identifying, or estimating, or otherwise determining the stage of an infection in
a subject by detecting, or determining the amounts of, or both, both nucleic acid markers
indicative of a particular infection and antibody markers indicative of the same infection.
Such systems, methods, and devices may be used to detect, measure, and track such markers
over time, effective to provide an estimate or determination of how recently an infection
occurred. Such systems, methods, and devices may be used to detect, measure, and track such
markers over time, effective to aid in evaluating the present status of a subject suffering from
an infection. Such systems, methods, and devices may be used to detect, measure, and track
such markers over time, effective to aid in determining the likely prognosis of a subject
suffering from an infection. For example, where nucleic acid markers indicative of a
particular infection are relatively numerous, while antibody or other protein markers
indicative of that particular infection are relatively sparse, then it can be estimated or
determined that the infection is a recent infection; however, where nucleic acid markers
indicative of a particular infection are relatively numerous, and antibody or other protein
markers indicative of that particular infection are also relatively numerous, then it can be
estimated or determined that the infection is not a recent infection, since the subject has had
the ime to produce infection-specific antibodies. Where nucleic acid markers indicative of a
particular infection are relatively sparse, and antibody or other protein markers indicative of
                                                 Page 8

that particular infection are also relatively numerous, then it can be estimated or determined
that the infection in a late stage, and indicates that the infection is waning, since such
observations indicate that the subject is overcoming the infection.
    [0024]       In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices
configured for testing for a plurality of markers, and disclose systems configured for
detecting a plurality of markers, where the markers are indicative of a plurality of infectious
diseases in a single small-volume clinical sample, or aliquots thereof In embodiments, the
systems, methods, and devices may be configured for testing for, or for detecting, markers
indicative of more than about 8 different diseases, or more than about 8 different diseases, or
more than about 12 different diseases, or more than about 16 different diseases, or more than
about 20 different diseases, or more than about 25 different diseases, or more than about 35
different diseases, or more than about 45 different diseases, or more than about 60 different
diseases. In embodiments, the systems, methods, and devices may be configured to test for,
or to detect a plurality of nucleic acid markers and protein markers, each marker being
indicative of at least one of a plurality of diseases or conditions. In embodiments, the
systems, methods, and devices may be configured to test for, or to detect a plurality of
nucleic acid markers, protein markers, and cytometric markers, each marker being indicative
of at least one of a plurality of diseases or conditions. In embodiments, the systems, methods,
and devices may be configured to test for, or to detect a plurality of nucleic acid markers,
protein markers, cyloietric markers, cytokities, and markers of inflammation, each marker or
cytokine being indicative of at least one of a plurality of diseases or conditions. In
embodiments, the systems, methods, and devices comprise a point-of service system. In
embodiments, the sample may be collected at the point of service, and may be analyzed in a
device at the POS location. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
may be completed in a short period of time.
    [0025]       In embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease. In
embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a respiratory disease selected from an upper
respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small
volume clinical sample determines whether the infectious disease is an upper respiratory
disease or a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume
clinical sample determines the type of upper respiratory disease or a lower respiratory disease
present in the small volume clinical sample. In embodiments, the respiratory disease
comprises a respiratory disease caused by a disease-causing agent selected from a virus, a
bacterium, a yeast, a fungus, a mycoplasma, and other micro-organistns. In embodiments, the
                                                  Page 9

analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines the type of upper respiratory disease
or a lower respiratory disease present in the small volume clinical sample. In embodiments,
the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines whether the upper respiratory
disease or a lower respiratory disease is a viral disease, or a bacterial disease, or some other
type of disease. In embodiments in which the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
determines that the disease is a viral disease, said determination indicates that antibiotics
should not be used in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments where the analysis of the
small-volume clinical sample determines that the disease is a viral disease, said determination
indicates that antiviral drugs should be used in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments
in which the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the disease is a
bacterial disease, said determination indicates that antibiotics should be used in the treatment
of that disease.
    [00261       In embodiments, the infectious disease comprises a sexually transmitted
disease. In embodiments, the sexually transmitted disease comprises a sexually transmitted
disease caused by a disease-causing agent selected from a virus, a bacterium, a yeast, a
fungus, a mycoplasma, and other micro-organisms. In embodiments, the analysis of the
small-volume clinical sample determines the type of sexually transmitted disease present in
the small volume clinical sample. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical
sample determines whether the sexually transmitted disease is a viral disease, or a bacterial
disease, or some other type of disease. In embodiments in which the analysis of the small
volume clinical sample determines that the disease is a viral disease, said determination
indicates that antibiotics should not be used in the treatment of that disease. In embodiments
where the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample determines that the disease is a viral
disease, said determination indicates that antiviral drugs should be used in the treatment of
that disease. In embodiments in which the analysis of the small-volume clinical sample
determines that the disease is a bacterial disease, said determination indicates that antibiotics
should be used in the treatment of that disease.
    100271               Applicant further discloses a method of determining the state of
response to a disease in a subject, the method comprising: a) introducing a clinical sample
into a sample processing device, said sample having been obtained from a subject suspected
of suffering from a disease caused by a disease-causing organism, said clinical sample having
a volume of no greater than 500 microliters, wherein the device comprises: i) a sample
handling system; ii) a detection station; and iii) an assay station comprising at least a first and
a second independently movable assay unit; b) with the aid of the sample handling system,
                                                Page 10

transferring a portion of the clinical sample to each of the first and second assay units,
wherein an assay for the detection of a nucleic acid indicative of the disease-causing
organism is performed in said first assay unit, and an assay for the detection of antibodies to
the disease-causing organism is performed in the second assay unit; c) transferring the first
and second assay units to the detection station with the aid of the sariple handling system; d)
obtaining data measurements with the aid of the detection station, said data measurements
comprising determining the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism in the
sample, and determining the level of antibodies directed to that disease organism in the
sample; and e) i) determining that the infection is a recent infection, and in an early stage of
the disease, where the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism is high and the
level of antibodies directed to that disease organism is low or normal; ii) determining that the
infection is not a recent infection, and not in an early stage of the disease, where the level of
nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism is high and the level of antibodies directed to
that disease organism is high; and iii) determining that the infection is a waning infection, and
in a late stage of the disease, where the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism
is low or normal and the level of antibodies directed to that disease organism is high, where a
normal level of a marker is the level of that marker determined in a healthy population of
normal subjects, where a high level is one that significantly exceeds a normal level as
detennined in a healthy population, and a low level is one that is at or below the normal level
as determined in a healthy population.
     100281      In embodiments, the method of determining the state of response to a disease
in a subject further comprises detecting the level of inflammatory cytokines. In embodiments
of the method of determining the state of response to a disease in a subject, the device further
comprises a cytometry station comprises an imaging device and a stage for receiving a
microscopy cuvette, and the method further comprises imaging a white blood cell in a blood
sample obtained from the subject. In embodiments, imaging a white blood cell in a blood
sample obtained from the subject comprises detecting the level of a white blood cell type in a
blood sample obtained from the subject, and determining whether said detected level of said
type of white blood cell is above, at, or below a normal level for that type of blood cell,
wherein the normal level for that type of white blood cell is determined by the level of that
type of white blood cell in blood samples from a healthy population.
     [0029]      Tests may be for the detection of markers indicative of any infectious disease.
For example, diseases that may be tested for include respiratory diseases, and include upper
respiratory diseases and lower respiratory diseases. Markers may include nucleic acid
                                                Page 11

markers, protein markers, polysaccharide markers, cellular markers (including cells and
cellular organelles or fragments), and other markers. Markers may include markers for viral
infections, bacterial infections, fungal infections, yeast infections, mycoplasma infections,
and for other infections. Samples may be tested for markers indicative of inflammation.
Samples may be tested for cytokines. Samples mnay be tested for inflammatory cytokines.
Samples may be tested for anti-inflammatory cytokines. The amount of dilution of a sample,
or a level of detection of a marker, may be determined by the condition or past history of a
subject.
    [0030]      Test results may be obtained within three hours, or two hours, or one hour, or
% hour, or less from the time a sample is placed in a testing device for analysis. A sample
may be placed in a testing device for analysis within five hours, or four hours, or three hours,
or two hours, or one hour, or % hour, or less front the time a sample was obtained from a
subject. Test results may be obtained within eight hours, seven hours, or six hours, or five
hours, or three hours, or two hours, or one hour, or % hour, or less from the time a sample
was obtained from a subject.
    [0031]      In embodiments, Applicant discloses a method of detecting a disease marker,
comprising: a) introducing a cartridge comprising one or more samples into an automatic
sample processing device, said cartridge being configured to hold at least one sample and
being configured to hold a swab, wherein said automatic sample processing device
comprises: i) a sample handling system configured to transport at least a portion of a sample
and being configured to transport an independently movable assay unit; and ii) an optical
detector; b) contacting a sample, or a portion thereof, with a movable assay unit, or a reagent,
or both, for the performance of an assay for the detection of a disease marker, said contacting
comprising transporting, with the aid of said sample handling system, at least a portion of
said sample, or a movable assay unit, or a reagent, or combinations thereof; c) positioning
said sample, or portion thereof, at a location suitable for detection of an optical signal from
the sample or portion thereof by said optical detector; and d) detecting the presence of a
disease marker. In embodiments, such a method may comprise performing two or more
assays for the detection of disease markers, and detecting two or more disease markers in said
one or more samples, or in one or more portions thereof. In embodiments, the sample has a
volume of less than about 500 microliters (pL). In embodiments, the one or more samples
comprises a blood sample; or comprises a sample obtained using a swab; or comprises both a
blood sample and a sample obtained using a swab. In embodiments, a sample obtained using
said swab may be obtained by swabbing a mouth, a throat, a nasal passage, a vaginal area, or
                                                Page 12

other body cavity of a subject. In embodiments, the method comprises detecting the presence
of a nucleic acid disease marker and a protein disease marker.
    [0032]       The methods disclosed herein include performing two or more assays for the
detection of disease markers, and detecting two or more disease markers in said samples, or
in one or rnore portions thereof. In embodiments, the methods comprise detecting the
presence of a nucleic acid disease marker and a protein disease marker. In embodiments, the
disease marker is selected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein disease marker, a
saccharide, a prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker for inflammation.
In embodiments, two or more disease markers are detected, wherein the disease markers are
selected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein disease marker, a saccharide, a
prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker for inflammation. In
embodiments, a disease marker is a marker for inflammation selected front prostaglandins,
tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin-i (IL-1), interleukin-8 (IL.-8), interleukin-12
(IL- 12), interferon ganna (IF-y), bradykinin, complement system molecules, blood-clotting
factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and
morphological changes in blood and other cells.
    [0033]       In embodiments, a disease marker is a marker for a disease-causing agent,
wherein said disease-causing agent is selected from the group of disease-causing organisms
consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro
organisms. In embodiments, a disease marker for a disease-causing agent is selected from the
group consisting of Influenza A Matrix protein, Influenza H3N2, Influenza HINI seasonal,
Influenza H IN] novel, Influenza B, Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacteriuin
Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR), Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis
(whooping cough), Streptococcus agalactiae (B), Influenza H5N 1, Influenza H7N9,
Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis e, Hepatitis delta,
Treponema pallidum, HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1, HIV-2, Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3,
Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae
(Enterobacteriaceac spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus
(mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (1), Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus (3),
Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A,
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus HKU 1, Coronavirus
OC43, Coronavirus NL 63, Novel Coronavirus, Bocavirus, human metapneuinovirus
(HMPV), Streptococcus pneunmtniae (penic R), Streptococcus pneunoniae (S), Mycoplasma
pneumnoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influenzae
                                              Page 13

(ampic R), Haemophilus influenzae (am pic S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp
(aeruginosa), Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceac spp),
Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae
spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp, Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia
trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, plasmodium, and Trichornonas
(vagin).
    [00341      In embodiments, the methods comprise detecting a disease marker in a blood
sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein one of said
disease markers is a marker for inflammation, and one of said disease markers a marker for a
disease-causing agent. In embodiments, such a disease marker for inflammation is selected
from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-8
(IL-8), interleukin- 12 (IL- 12), interferon gamna (IF-y), bradykinin, complement system
molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and other cells, and such a
disease marker for a disease-causing agent is selected from the group of disease-causing
organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasma, a fungus, a yeast, and other
micro-organisms.
    [0035]      In embodiments, a disease marker is a marker for a disease selected from
influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another infectious disease.
In embodiments where the disease is influenza, the disease marker is selected from HINI
(seasonal), H IN1 (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and H5N1. In embodiments, the disease is
respiratory disease selected from an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
In embodiments where the disease is a respiratory disease, the marker may be a marker for a
disease-causing organism selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C,
adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus
aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group
B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes., Haernophilus parainfluenzae,
Metapneumo Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS,
Coronavirus HKUI, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia
KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
    [0036]      In embodiments where the disease is a sexually transmitted disease, the
marker may comprise a marker for a disease-causing organism indicative of a sexually
transmitted disease selected from herpes simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency
                                                Page 14

virus (HIMV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV-I       Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta,
herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
    [0037]      In embodiments, the method comprises detecting a disease marker in a blood
sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one
of said disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing organism indicative of a respiratory
disease selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E,
Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus,
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B
streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzac,
Metapneuno Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS,
Coronavirus HKU l, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia
KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
    100381      In embodiments where the disease is an infectious disease, the disease marker
may comprise a marker for an infectious disease-causing agent selected from the group
consisting of West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a
Dengue Virus.
    [0039]      In embodiments comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood sample and
detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one of said
disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing organism indicative of a sexually
transmitted disease selected from herpes simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A,        rIV-2 Group B, HIV-1 Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta,
herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
    [0040]      In embodiments comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood sample and
detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one of said
disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of
West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
    100411      In embodiments of the methods of detecting a disease marker, the method is a
point-of service method performed at a point-of-service location. In embodiments of methods
of detecting a disease marker, the method may be performed in less than about 40 minutes. In
embodiments comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood sample and detecting a
disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, the method is a point-of service method
performed at a point-of-service location. In embodiments comprising detecting a disease
                                               Page 15

marker in a blood sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab,
the method may be performed in less than about 40 minutes.
    [0042]       For example, Applicant discloses herein a method of determining the stage of
an infection in a subject suffering from an infection, comprising: Testing at least one sample,
or an aliquot or aliquots thereof, obtained from said subject 1) for the presence of a nucleic
acid indicative of the infection, and 2) for the presence of an antibody indicative of the
infection, and Determining whether the relative amounts of a) nucleic acids indicative of the
infection and b) antibodies indicative of the infection indicate that the infection is a recent
infection, wherein i) a greater relative amount of the nucleic acids indicative of the infection
as compared to the relative amount of the antibodies indicative of the infection indicate that
the infection is a recent infection, and ii) a significant amount of antibodies to the infectious
agent indicate the infection is not a recent infection. In embodiments of such a method, the at
least one sample comprises a blood sample. In embodiments of such a method, the at least
one sample comprises a sample selected from a throat swab sample, a cheek swab sample,
nasal swab sample, a saliva sample, and a blood sample. In embodiments of such a method,
where a significant amount of antibody to the infectious agent is detected, and where nucleic
acid markers indicative of the infectious agent are relatively sparse, then the method indicates
that the infection is in a late stage and that the infection is waning.
    [0043]       In embodiments, such a method may further include testing a sample or
samples for a marker for inflammation. In embodiments, the marker for inflammation may be
selected from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interieukin-i (I-i),
interieukin-8 (IL-8), interlerukin-12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin, a
complement system molecule, a blood-clotting factor, and a morphological change in a blood
or other cell. In embodiments, the marker for inflammation is a cytokine selected from a
lymphokine, a chemokine, an interleukin, and an interferon.
    [0044]       In embodiments, a method disclosed herein comprises testing to determine
whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection, a viral infection, a yeast infection, a
mycoplasma infection, a fingal infection, other infection, or combination thereof. In
embodiments, such testing comprises determining whether markers indicative of viral
infection or markers indicative of bacterial infection are detected, effective to determine
whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral infection.
    [0045]       In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the methods further
comprise prescribing a prescription suitable for treatment of the infection. In embodiments,
methods disclosed herein comprise providing a prescription suitable for treatment of said
                                                 Page 16

infection comprises prescription of an antibiotic when the testing determines that the subject
suffers from a bacterial infection. In embodiments, methods disclosed herein comprise
providing a prescription suitable for treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of
an anti-mycoplasnal drug when the testing determines that the subject suffers from a
mycoplasmal infection. In embodiments, methods disclosed herein comprise providing a
prescription suitable for treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-viral
drug when the testing determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection. In
embodiments, methods disclosed herein comprise providing a prescription suitable for
treatment of said infection comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, when the
testing determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection. In embodiments, methods
disclosed herein comprise providing a prescription suitable for treatment of said infection
comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and providing the prescription of an ani
viral drug, when the testing determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection. In
embodiments, methods disclosed herein comprise providing a prescription suitable for
treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug when the testing
determines that the subject suffers from a fungal infection. In embodiments, methods
disclosed herein comprise providing a prescription suitable for treatment of said infection
comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug when the testing determines that the subject
suffers from a yeast infection.
     [00461     In embodiments, the methods comprise detecting a disease, wherein the
disease detected is caused by a disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease
causing organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and
other micro-organisms, and further comprising providing a prescription for the suitable
treatment of said virus, bacterium, mycoplast, fungus, yeast, or other micro-organism.
     [0047]     In embodiments, the methods are point-of service methods performed at a
point-of-service location. In embodimeients, the methods comprise performing a plurality of
assays on a single small-volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof, and may be
performed in less than about 40 minutes. In embodiments, the infection is caused by a disease
selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another
infectious disease. In etmbodiments where the infection comprises influenza, the influenza
may be selected from HINI (seasonal), HlNl (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and H5N1. In
embodiments where the infection comprises a respiratory disease, the infection may be
selected from an tipper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease. In embodiments,
the respiratory disease is selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C,
                                               Page 17

adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus
aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group
B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haenophilus parainfluenzae,
Metapneumo Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
Parainfluenrza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS,
Coronavirus HKULl, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsielia pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia
KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
     [0048]     In embodiments, the infection comprises a sexually transmitted disease
selected front a disease caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV-l Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta,
herpes simplex virus (iSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum. In embodiments, the
infection comprises a disease caused by an infectious disease-causing agent selected from the
group consisting of Influenza A Matrix protein, Influenza H3N2, Influenza H IN 1 seasonal,
Influenza HINI novel,     Influenza B, Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium
Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR), Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis
(whooping cough), Streptococcus agalactiae (B), Influenza 15N1, Influenza 1-17N9,
Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis e, Hepatitis delta,
Treponema pallidum, iSV-1, iSV-2, HIV- 1, HIV-2, Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3,
Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae
(Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus
(mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (1),    Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus
(3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A,
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus HKU I, Coronavirus
0C4 3, Coronavirus Ni63, Novel Coronavirus, Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus
(HMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R), Streptococcus pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma
pneumoniae,   Chlamydia pneumoniae, Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influenzae
(ampic R), Haemophilus influenza (ampic S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp
(aeruginosa), Haenophilus parainfluenzae, Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp),
Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae
spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp, Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia
trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, plasmodium, and Trichomonas
(vagin).
     [0049]     In embodiments, the infection comprises a bacterial infection caused by
bacteria selected from the group consisting of Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium
                                              Page 18

tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter
aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumonia, Klibsiella pneumonia
phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, and treponema pallidum.
    [0050]       In embodiments, the infection comprises a viral infection caused by a virus
selected from the group consisting of an influenza virus, herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
iinmunodeficiencv virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- I Group M, Hepatitis
B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (I-ISV), West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr Virus, a
Dengue Virus, adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Metapneumo Virus, Parainfluenza
Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus 043, Coronavirus
NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU 1, Coronavirus 229E, Bocavirus type 2,4, and
Bocavirus type 1,3. In embodiments of influenza infections, the influenza may be selected
from HINI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and H5Nl influenza viruses. In
embodiments, a viral infection comprises infection by a Dengue virus, wherein said Dengue
virus is selected from Dengue virus type 1, Dengue virus type 2, Dengue virus type 3, and
Dengue virus type 4.
    [0051]       A bill for the testing may be automatically generated at the POS. The amount
of the bill may be calculated per the tests performed, or pursuant to the results of the testing.
A bill for the testing may be automatically sent to the subject's insurance provider. Payment
for the testing may be automatically obtained from the subject, or from the subject's
insurance carrier, or from another source.
    100521       A prescription for treatment of a detected disorder may be provided at the POS
location. A prescription for treatment of a detected disorder may be filled at the POS location.
A bill for the filled prescription may be automatically generated. A bill for the prescription
may be automatically sent to the subject's insurance provider. Payment for the filled
prescription may be automatically obtained from the subject, or from the subject's insurance
carrier, or from another source.
    100531       Accordingly, Applicants provide systems, methods, and devices for rapid
analysis of a small-volume clinical sample in a short period of time. Such rapid analysis
includes testing for the presence of markers indicative of a plurality of disease-causing agents
in a short period of time. In embodiments, such disease-causing agents include agents which
cause upper respiratory disorders, and include agents which cause lower respiratory
disorders. In embodiments, such systems, methods, and devices are configured to detect one
or more indicators of inflammation. In embodiments, such systems, methods, and devices are
                                                Page 19

configured to detect one or more cytokines. In embodiments, such systems, methods, and
devices are configured to detect one or more inflannatory cytokines. In embodiments, such
systems, methods, and devices are configured to detect one or more anti-inflammatory
cytokines.
     [0054]      In embodiments, Applicants provide systems, methods, and devices for
detecting a plurality of disease--causing agents in a single clinical sample, or in a plurality of
aliquots of a single clinical sample. In embodiments, a single clinical sample may be a small
volume clinical sample of blood, sputum, tears, nasal swabs, throat swabs, mouth swabs (e.g.,
cheek swabs), vaginal swabs, or other bodily fluid, tissue, secretion, or excretion taken from a
subject. In embodiments, a single clinical sample has a volume of less than about 500 pL, or
less than about 250 pL, or less than 150 ptL, or less than about 100 p,          or less than about 50
ptL, or less than about 25 pL, or less than about 10 PL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than
about 1 pL, or less.
     [0055J      In embodiments, clinical samples may be obtained at a point-of-service (POS)
location. A POS location may be, for example, a retail pharmacy, a supermarket, a hospital, a
clinic, a physician's office, or other location. Clinical samples may be tested at the POS
location for multiple markers indicative of agents which may cause one or more of a plurality
of diseases (e~g., at least 8, or at least 10, or at least 12, or at least 20, or at least 30, or at least
40, or at least 50, or at least 60, or more markers, indicative of the same or similar numbers of
different diseases). The testing may be completed in a short period of time. In embodiments,
the short period of time may be measured from the time the sample is inserted into a device
or system for performing an analysis. In embodiments, the short period of time may be
measured from the time the sample is obtained from the subject.
     [0056]      In embodiments, clinical samples may be analyzed at a POS location. In
embodiments, clinical samples obtained at a POS location may be analyzed at the same POS
location. In embodiments, clinical samples may be obtained at a point-of-service (POS)
location and may be analyzed at a different location. In embodiments, clinical samples may
be analyzed in a short period of time, e.g., in a period of time that is less than about 5 hours,
or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than
about I hour, or less than about half an hour.
     [0057]      In embodiments, Applicants provide devices (e.g., cartridges) for use in
performing assays for detecting a plurality of disease-causing agents in a single clinical
sample, or in a plurality of aliquots of a single clinical sample. In embodiments, such a device
may comprise a plurality of vessels containing reagents for use in an assay for the detection
                                                   Page 20

of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious agent, e.g., an upper respiratory infectious
agent; a lower respiratory infectious agent; a sexually transmitted disease-causing agent; an
agent detectable from a sample obtained from a swab (e.g., a throat swab, a nasal swab, or
other swab); an agent detectable from a blood sample; or combinations thereof. In
embodiments, a device may be a cartridge configured to contain a plurality of reagent vessels.
In embodiments, a device may be a cartridge configured to contain a reagent vessel
containing a reagent for detecting a marker indicative of a disease-causing agent. In
enbodiments, a device may be a cartridge configured to contain a plurality of reagent vessels
containing reagents for detecting a marker indicative of a disease-causing agent. In
embodiments, such a disease-causing agent, or such a plurality of disease-causing agents,
includes disease-causing agents which cause upper respiratory disorders. In embodiments,
such a disease-causing agent, or such a plurality of disease-causing agents, includes disease
causing agents which cause lower respiratory disorders. In embodiments, such a disease
causing agent, or such a plurality of disease-causing agents, includes disease-causing agents
which cause sexually transmitted diseases. In embodiments, such a disease-causing agent, or
such a plurality of disease-causing agents, includes disease-causing agents which may be
detected in a blood sample. In embodiments, such a disease-causing agent, or such a plurality
of disease-causing agents, includes disease-causing agents which may be detected in a sample
obtained with a swab, such as a throat swab, or a nasal swab, or a cheek swab, or other
sample, or combinations thereof.
    100581      In embodiments, devices for use in performing assays for detecting a plurality
of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may further include a space, or a vessel, for
holding a swab; or may further include a space, or a vessel, for holding two swabs, or a
plurality of swabs. In embodiments, such devices may further include two spaces, or two
vessels, for holding two swabs; or may include a plurality of spaces, or of vessels, for holding
a plurality of swabs. In embodiments, a single swab may be placed in a single space, or
vessel; in embodiments, two swabs may be placed in a single space, or vessel; and in
embodiments, a plurality of swabs may be placed in a single space, or vessel. Thus, in
embodiments, a swab may be placed in a vessel, and, in embodiments, a swab, or a plurality
of swabs, may be placed in a single vessel. In embodiments, a plurality of swabs may be
placed in a plurality of vessels. Such a vessel for holding a swab, or such vessels for holding
swabs, may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or other solution for use with a swab or swabs. In
embodiments, a vessel for holding a swab may be used to provide a clean swab for use in
obtaining a sample. In embodiments, a vessel for holding a swab may be used to i) provide a
                                               Page 21

clean swab for use in obtaining a sample and also to ii) receive the swab after its use in
obtaining a sample from a subject. In embodiments, a vessel for holding a plurality of swabs
may be used to provide a plurality of clean swabs for use in obtaining a sample. In
embodiments, a vessel for holding a plurality of swabs may be used to i) provide a plurality
of clean swabs for use in obtaining a sample and also to ii) receive one or more of the
plurality of swabs after its use in obtaining a sample from a subject.
     100591      For example, a throat swab and a nasal swab may be obtained from a subject.
A nasal swab may be useful for testing for upper respiratory diseases, and a throat swab may
be useful for testing lower respiratory diseases. In embodiments, the throat swab may be
placed in one vessel in a device (e.g., a cartridge), and the nasal swab may be placed in a
different vessel in the device. These vessels may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or other
solution for use with the swabs; such reagents may be different for the throat swab and the
nasal swab. In embodiments, the throat swab and the nasal may be placed in the same vessel
in a device. The vessel may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or other solution for use with
these swabs. The device may be placed in an analysis device, or within an analysis system,
for analysis. Such analysis devices and analysis systems may be placed at the same location
as that where the sample was obtained; or such analysis devices and analysis systems may be
at a different location or locations than the location where the sample was obtained.
     [0060]      In embodiments, a device may be or comprise a cartridge configured to
contain a reaction vessel or a plurality of reagent vessels. In embodiments, a device may be or
comprise a cartridge configured to contain a reaction vessel or a plurality of reaction vessels.
In embodiments, a device may be a cartridge configured to contain a cytometry cuvette, or a
plurality of cytotnetry cuvettes. In embodiments, a device may be or comprise a cartridge
configured to contain a waste container, or a plurality of waste containers. In embodiments, a
device may be or comprise a cartridge configured to contain a sample; in embodiments, a
sample may be contained in a sample collection device. In embodiments, a device may be or
comprise a cartridge configured to contain a sample collection vessel.
     100611      In embodiments, a device may be or comprise a cartridge configured to
contain a reagent vessel, or a plurality of reagent vessels, and a reaction vessel or a plurality
of reaction vessels. In embodiments, such a device may include reagents for use in nucleic
acid assays; for immunoassays (e.g., ELISA assays); general chemistry assays (e.g., for
clinical electrolytes, vitamin levels, blood component levels, and other targets); cytometric
assays; and for combinations thereof In embodiments, such a device mnay include reagents
and reaction vessels for use in nucleic acid assays; for itnmunoassays (e.g., ELISA assays);
                                                Page 22

general chemistry assays (e.g., for clinical electrolytes, vitamin levels, blood component
levels, and other targets); cytometric assays; and for combinations thereof In embodiments,
such a device may include reagents, reaction vessels, and tools, cuvettes, and other
implements for use in nucleic acid assays; for inmunoassays (e.g. ELISA assays); general
chemistry assays (e.g., for clinical electrolytes, vitamin levels, blood component levels, and
other targets); cytometric assays; and for combinations thereof
    [0062]       Accordingly, Applicants disclose systems for detecting the presence of one or
more of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical
sample, comprising:
         a) a sample handling system;
        b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
        c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
         d) an assay station comprising at least a first and a second fluidically isolated assay
unit, wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent and the second unit comprises a second
reagent; and
         e) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively
coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station;
    wherein the system is configured to perform assays with one or both of the first and
second assay units; wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a protocol
comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a portion of
the clinical sample to the first assay unit and to the second assay unit; and ii) directing the
sample handling system to transfer the first assay unit and the second unit assay unit to the
detection station.
    [0063]       Accordingly, Applicants disclose systems for detecting the presence of one or
more of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical
sample, comprising:
         a) a sample handling system;
        b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
        c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
                                                 Page 23

         d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent, the second unit comprises a second
reagent, and the third unit comprises a third reagent; and
         e) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively
coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station;
         wherein the system is configured to perform assays with any one or more of the first,
second, and third assay units; wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a
protocol comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a
portion of the clinical sample to the first assay unit, the second assay unit and the third assay
unit; and ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first assay unit, the second
assay unit, and the third assay unit to the detection station. In embodiments, the system may
include only   two  assay units; or may include four assay units; or may include more than four
assay units.
    [0064]       In embodiments, the system is a point-of service system. In embodiments, the
system is contained within a housing. In embodiments, the system is located at a point-of
service location, and is configured for use in analyzing a sample at said point-of-service
location. In embodiments, the system is a point-of service system configured to perform a
plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof.
    [0065]       Applicants further disclose systems for detecting the presence of one or more
of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical sample,
comprising:
         a) a sample handling system;
        b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
        c) a fluid handling system configured to transport fluids between components of said
system, wherein said transport of fluids comprises transport of isolated aliquots of fluid;
         d) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
         e) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent, the second unit comprises a second
reagent, and the third unit comprises a third reagent; and
         f) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively
coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station;
                                                 Page 24

                  wherein the system is configured to perform assays with any one or more of
the first, second, and third assay units; wherein the local memory of the controller comprises
a protocol comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a
portion of the clinical sample to the first assay unit, the second assay unit and the third assay
unit; and ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first assay unit, the second
assay unit, and the third assay unit to the detection station.
    [0066]        In embodiments, the system is a point-of service system. In embodiments, the
system is contained within a housing. In embodiments, the fluid handling system is
configured to transport fluid within said housing. In embodiments, the system is located at a
point-of-service location, and is configured for use in analyzing a sample at said point-of
service location. In embodiments, the system is a point-of service system configured to
perform a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof.
    [0067]        In embodiments, Applicants disclose a clinical sample processing system,
comprising:
         a) a sample handling system;
         b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
         c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
         d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises an antibody, the second unit comprises an
oligonucleotide, and the third unit comprises a chromogen or a dye or other label; and
         e) a controller, wherein the controller is operatively coupled to the sample handling
system, wherein the sample handling system is configured to transfer a portion of the clinical
sample from the sample collection unit to each of the first assay unit, the second assay unit,
and the third assay unit, and the device is configured to perform an inmunoassay, a nucleic
acid assay, and a general chemistry assay comprising a chromogen. In embodiments, the
system is a point-of service system. In embodiments, the system is contained within a
housing. In embodiments, the system is located at a point-of-service location, and is
configured for use in analyzing a sample at said point-of-service location. In embodiments,
the system is a point-of service system configured to perform a plurality of assays on a single
small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof
    [0068]        In embodiments, Applicants disclose methods of performing at least 4
different assays selected from immunoassays, nucleic acid assays, cytometric assays, and
general chemistry assays on a small-volume clinical sample, comprising:
                                                 Page 25

         a) introducing a clinical sample having a volume of no greater than 500 microliters
into a sample processing device, wherein the device comprises:
                  i) a sample handling system;
                 ii) a detection station
                 iii) a cytometry station comprising an imaging device and a stage for receiving
a microscopy cuvette; and
                  iv) an assay station comprising at least a first, a second, a third, and a fourth
independently movable assay unit;
         b) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring a portion of the clinical
sample to each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay units, wherein a different assay is
performed in each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay units;
        c) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring the first, second, third, and
fourth assay units to the detection station or cytometry station, wherein assay units
comprising immunoassays or general chemistry assays are transferred to the detection station
and assay units comprising cytometric assays are transferred to the cytometry station;
         d) with the aid of the detection station or cytometry station, obtaining data
measurements of the assay performed in each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay
units.
    [0069]       In embodiments, the methods are point-of service methods. In embodiments,
the system used in performing the methods is contained within a housing. In embodiments,
the methods are performed at a point-of-service location, and may be used in analyzing a
sample at said point-of-service location. In embodiments, the methods comprise point-of
service methods for performing a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on
aliquots thereof.
    [00701       In embodiments, the methods include methods of determining the type of
infection suffered by a subject. Methods of determining the type of infection as disclosed
herein include, without limitation, methods as disclosed herein comprising determining
whether a subject suffers from a bacterial, viral, yeast, fungus, and other infection. For
example, methods of determining the type of infection as disclosed herein include methods of
determining whether a subject suffers from a bacterial infection or from a viral infection. In
embodiments, the methods include methods of detecting, identifying, quantifying, and
                                                 Page 26

combinations thereof, markers in a sample indicative of the type of infection suffered by a
subject. Methods of detecting, identifying, quantifying, and combinations thereof, markers in
a sample indicative of the type of infection as disclosed herein include, without limitation,
methods as disclosed herein comprising detecting, identifying, quantifying, and combinations
thereof, markers in a sample indicative of a bacterial, viral, yeast, fungus, and other infection.
For example, methods as disclosed herein include methods of detecting, identifying,
quantifying, and combinations thereof, markers in a sample indicative of a bacterial infection
or a viral infection.
    [0071]       Methods disclosed herein may be used to determine whether a subject suffers
from, e.g., a bacterial, viral, yeast, fungus, and other infection. Determination of the type of
infection as disclosed herein may be used to guide therapy of the subject suffering from the
infection. Determination of the type of infection as disclosed herein may be used to guide
selection of pharmaceuticals for treatment of the subject suffering from the infection.
Determination of the type of infection as disclosed herein may be used to guide selection of
the dosage, or the dosing regimen, of pharmaceuticals used for the treatment of the subject
suffering from the infection. For example, methods disclosed herein may be used to
determine whether a subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral infection.
Determination of whether a subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral infection as
disclosed herein may be used to guide therapy of the subject suffering from the infection.
Determination of whether a subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral infection as
disclosed herein may be used to guide selection of pharmaceuticals for treatment of the
subject suffering from the infection. Determination of whether a subject suffers from a
bacterial infection or a viral infection as disclosed herein may be used to guide the selection
of a pharmaceutical, selection of the dosage, the dosing regimen, or a combination thereof,
used in the treatment of the subject suffering from the infection. For example, where an
infection is determined to be a bacterial infection, antibiotics may be prescribed; however,
where an infection is determined to be a viral infection, antibiotics are not indicated, and, in
embodiments, will not be prescribed. Determination that a subject suffers from a viral
infection may enable the subject to avoid unnecessary treatment and expense (e.g., where
antibiotic therapy is avoided when the infection is identified as being a viral infection).
Determination that a subject suffers from a viral infection may enable the subject to obtain
more appropriate therapy directed to viral infections, as opposed to antibiotic therapy that is
directed to bacterial infections.
                                                 Page 27

    [0072]       Similarly, determination of whether a subject suffers from a yeast, fungus, and
other infection, as opposed to a bacterial or viral infection, may guide or determine the
therapy provided to a subject suffering from an infectious disease, including guiding or
detennining the selection of a phannaceutical, the selection of the dosage, the dosing
regimen, or a combination thereof, used in the treatment of the subject suffering from the
infection. Determination of the type of infection may enable the subject to obtain more
appropriate therapy directed to the particular type of infection suffered by the subject, as
opposed to inappropriate, or less specific, therapy that may not be as effective for that type of
infection.
    [0073]       Accordingly, Applicants disclose herein methods for providing a prescription
for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, comprising: providing a clinical sample
obtained from a subject; analyzing said clinical sample, wherein analyzing comprises testing
for, or detecting the presence of, a plurality of disease markers, in the clinical sample;
determining a suitable treatment for a disease indicated by the presence of a marker detected
by said analysis; and providing a prescription for said suitable treatment. Applicants further
disclose herein methods for providing a prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in
a subject, comprising: providing a clinical sample obtained from a subject; analyzing said
clinical sample at a point-of-service (POS) location, wherein analyzing comprises testing for,
or detecting the presence of, a plurality of disease markers, in the clinical sample;
determninn a suitable treatment for a disease indicated by the presence of a marker detected
by said analysis; and providing a prescription for said suitable treatment.
    [0074]       In embodiments of methods for providing a prescription for treatment of an
infectious disease in a subject, the analysis of the sample comprises analysis to determine
whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection, a viral infection, a yeast infection, a
fungal infection, other infection, or combination thereof In embodiments of methods for
providing a prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, the analysis of the
sample comprises analysis to determine whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection
or a viral infection. In embodiments of methods for providing a prescription for treatment of
an infectious disease in a subject, where the analysis of the sample determines that the subject
suffers from a bacterial infection, providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
comprises prescription of an antibiotic. In embodiments of methods for providing a
prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, where the analysis of the
sample determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection, providing a prescription for
                                                Page 28

said suitable treatment comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and may include
the prescription of an anti-viral drug. In embodiments of methods for providing a prescription
for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, where the analysis of the sample
detennines that the subject suffers from a fungal infection, providing a prescription for said
suitable treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug. In embodiments of
methods for providing a prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, where
the analysis of the sample determines that the subject suffers from a bacterial infection that is
a mycoplasma infection, providing a prescription for said suitable treatment comprises the
prescription of an anti-mycoplasmal drug. In embodiments of methods for providing a
prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject, where the analysis of the
sample determines that the subject suffers from a yeast infection, providing a prescription for
said suitable treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug.
    [0075]      Accordingly, the systems, devices, and methods disclosed herein are point-of
service methods. In embodiments, the systems disclosed herein, including the systems used in
performing the methods disclosed herein, may be contained and the methods performed
within a housing. In embodiments, the devices disclosed herein may be placed or used within
a housing, e.g., a housing containing a system disclosed herein. In embodiments, the systems
disclosed herein may be located at a POS location, and the methods may be performed at a
point-of-service location. The systems and methods disclosed herein may be used in
analyzing a sample at said point-of-service location. In embodiments, the systems and
methods comprise point-of service methods for performing a plurality of assays on a single
small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof.
    [0076]      In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, methods, and devices for
detecting one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of a disease in a clinical sample
obtained at a point-of-service (POS) location. In embodiments, such a clinical sample is a
small volume clinical sample. In embodiments, the one or more markers are detected in a
short period of time, In embodiments, the sample is obtained at a POS location. In
embodiments, the systems and devices are located at a POS location. In embodiments, the
detection of the one or more markers is performed at a POS location. In embodiments, the
diseases are infectious diseases. In embodiments, the diseases are caused by a disease-causing
agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium
(including a mycoplasma), a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms. In embodiments, the
                                               Page 29

diseases are infectious respiratory diseases, and may be upper respiratory diseases, and may
be lower respiratory diseases.
    [0077]       Accordingly, in embodiments, Applicants disclose POS systems, methods, and
devices. In embodiments, such POS systems, methods, and devices comprise automated POS
systems, methods, and devices. In embodiments, for example, Applicants disclose an
automated POS system, automated methods, and devices thereof, for detecting one or more of
a plurality of markers indicative of a disorder in a clinical sample obtained at a POS location;
such a disorder may be a respiratory disorder, and may be a disorder caused by a disease
causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a
bacterium(including a mycoplasma), a fungus, a yeast, and other mnicro-organisms. In
embodiments, such automated POS systems, automated methods, and devices thereof, are
configured for use at POS locations, and for use with samples obtained at POS locations. In
embodiments, such automated POS systems, automated methods, and devices thereof, are
configured for use on a single small-volume clinical sample. In embodiments, such
automated POS systems, automated methods, and devices thereof, are configured to detect. if
present, one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of a disorder in a clinical sample in a
short period of time.
    [0078]       In embodiments, such automated POS systems, methods, and devices are
located at a POS location selected from a retail pharmacy, a supermarket, a clinic, a hospital,
and a doctor's office. In embodiments, a prescription for a treatment is issued at said POS
location. In embodiments, a prescription for a treatment is issued at said POS location
pursuant to the results of such testing performed by an automated POS systems, methods, and
devices located at the POS location. In embodiments, a prescription for a treatment is filled at
said POS location, wherein the prescription was issued for a treatment is pursuant to the
espiratory disease. ng performed by an automated POS systems, methods, and devices
located at the POS location. In embodiments, a bill for testing is issued at the POS location;
such a bill may be issued automatically. In embodiments, a bill for a prescription is issued at
the POS location, wherein the prescription was issued for a treatment is pursuant to the
results of such testing performed by an automated POS systems, methods, and devices
located at the POS location; such a bill may be issued automatically. In embodiments, a bill
for a test or a prescription may be issued from the POS location to a subject's insurance
carrier; such a bill may be issued automatically, In embodiments, an automatic payment may
be made for a test performed or a prescription filled at from the POS location to a subject's
insurance carrier, pursuant to a bill issued automatically from the POS location.
                                                Page 30

    [0079]      Accordingly, Applicants disclose devices configured to measure or detect a
disease-causing agent or marker indicative of a disease-causing agent in a sample according
to a method disclosed herein. Such a sample may be a small-volume clinical sample. Such
devices may be configured to measure or detect a particular disease-causing agent or marker
indicative of a particular disease-causing agent in a sample in less than about three hours, or
less than about two hours, or in less than about one hour, or, in embodiments, in less than
about 40 minutes, or in less than about 30 minutes.
    [0080]      Devices disclosed herein may be configured to perform an assay for the
detection or measurement of a plurality of disease-causing agents or markers indicative
thereof. Devices disclosed herein may be configured to perform an assay for the detection or
measurement of a particular disease-causing agent or marker indicative thereof and also to
perform an assay comprising the measurement of a morphological characteristic of a cell in
the sample. Devices disclosed herein may be configured to perform an assay for the
measurement of a disease-causing agent or marker indicative thereof and also to perform an
assay comprising the measurement of another analyte, e.g., a cytokine, a prostaglandin,
histamine, a steroid (e.g., a glucocorticoid, or other steroid), a vitamin, a hormone, a drug or
metabolite of a dru,   or other analyte. Such devices may be configured wherein the assays, or
the order of performance of assays, that are perfonned by said device may be altered by
communication with another device.
    [0081]      Methods and compositions disclosed herein provide rapid assays which
require only small amounts of sample, such as only small amounts of saliva, urine, blood, or
fluid in which a throat swab, cheek swab, or nasal swab has been immersed. In embodiments,
a plurality of samples, including a plurality of small samples, may comprise a plurality of
sample types, such as saliva, urine, blood, or fluid samples, may be provided to, and analyzed
by, systems, devices, andi methods disclosed herein. Methods, devices and systems disclosed
herein are configured to perform such rapid assays which require only small amounts of
sample. Methods, devices and systems disclosed herein are configured to perform such rapid
assays on a plurality of sample types, and may require only small amounts of each sample
type. Methods, devices and systems disclosed herein are configured to perform multiple
assays on a sample, or on a plurality of sample types, and may be used to screen for one or
more of a plurality of diseases. Methods, devices and systems disclosed herein are configured
to perform multiple assays on a sample, or on a plurality of sample types, and may be used to
screen for diseases caused by one or more of viruses, bacteria, yeast, fungus, mycoplasma,
archea, fungus., yeast, parasites, and other micro-organisms. Accordingly, the methods,
                                                Page 31

devices, and systems disclosed herein provide rapid tests, which require only small clinical
samples, and thus provide advantages over other methods, devices, and systems.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     100821      Fig. IA provides a graphic summary of the durations of time from the
initiation of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a
sample for a range of markers and for two different concentration ranges of the markers (10
c/pil and 100 c/pi, where "c/pl" means copies per microliter (pL)). The times are labeled
"LOD" ("length of delay"). The vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence
(relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
     [0083]      Fig. IB provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers for various diseases (at 100 c/pl).
     [0084]      Fig. IC provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers for several influenza strains and identifying targets (at 100 c/pl).
     [0085]      Fig. ID provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers of several respiratory diseases (at 100 c/pl).
     [0086]      Fig. IE provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers for several sexually transmitted diseases (at 100 c/pl).
     100871      Fig. IF provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers for several diseases that can be detected in blood (at 100 c/p 1).
     [0088]      Fig, 2A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza A
(seasonal HIN strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification
of non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
                                                Page 32

    [0089]       Fig. 2B shows the limit of detection of influenza A (seasonal H11     strain) in a
sample. The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection
(rises significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influenza A (seasonal 11 IN1     strain) message; "NTC" indicates "no
template control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 2B shows detection of
influenza A (seasonal HINI strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of
amplification of non-target nucleic acid message occurred.
    [0090]       Fig. 3A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza A
(novel HIN 1 strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of
non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
    [0091]       Fig. 3B shows the limit of detection of influenza A (novel HINI strain) in a
sample. The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection
(rises significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influenza A (novel HINI strain) message; "NTC" indicates "no
template control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 3B shows detection of
influenza A (novel H IN1I strain) marker at times well before any significant atnounts of
amplification of non-target nucleic acid message occurred.
    [0092]       Fig, 4A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza A
(H3N2 strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
    [0093]       Fig. 4B shows the linit of detection of influenza A (113N2 strain) in a sample.
The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influenza A (113N2 strain) message; "TNTC" indicates "no template
                                                Page 33

control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 4B shows detection of influenza A
 H3N2 strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred.
    [0094]       Fig. 5A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza A
(H7N9 strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, R FU), in
thousands.
    [0095]       Fig. 5B shows the limit of detection of influenza A (H7N9 strain) in a sample.
The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influetiza A (H7N9 strain) message; "NTC" indicates "no template
control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 5B shows detection of influenza A
(H7N9 strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred.
    100961       Fig. 6A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza A
(H5N] strain) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
    100971       Fig. 6B shows the limit of detection of influenza A (H5NI strain) in a sample.
The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influenza A (H5N1 strain) message; "NTC" indicates "no template
control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 6B shows detection of influenza A
(H5NI strain) tnarker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non
target nucleic acid message occurred.
                                                Page 34

    [0098]       Fig. 7A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza B
marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic
acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of
temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that the
numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in
units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU). in thousands.
    [0099]       Fig. 7B shows the limit of detection of influenza B in a sample. The height of
the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly
above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial numbers of copies
of influenza B message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added copies of the target
marker). Fig. 7B shows detection of influenza B marker at times well before any significant
amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic acid message occurred.
    [00100]      Fig. 8A shows amplification over time, showing detection of influenza Matrix
Protein marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target
nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no
cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that
the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is
shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [00101]      Fig. 8B shows the limit of detection of influenza Matrix Protein marker in a
sample. The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection
(rises significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating the initial
numbers of copies of influenza Matrix Protein message; "NTC" indicates "no template
control" (no added copies of the target marker). Fig. 8B shows detection of influenza Matrix
Protein marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target
nucleic acid message occurred.
    [00102]      Fig. 9A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a tuberculosis
marker (Myobacterium tuberculosis) at times well before any significant amounts of
amplification of non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is
denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles
is approximately one minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms
of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence
units, RF U), in thousands.
                                                Page 35

    [00103]      Fig. 9B shows the lirnit of detection of tuberculosis in a sample. The height of
the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly
above the background level), with the numbers "TB 1000" indicating 1000 copies of
tuberculosis marker message, "TB 100" indicating 100 copies of tuberculosis marker
message, and "TB 10" indicating 10 copies of tuberculosis marker message; "NTCs"
indicates "no template controls" (no added copies of the target marker).
    [00104]      Fig. IOA shows amplification over time, showing detection of a staphylocccus
marker (Staphylococcus aureus) at times well before any significant amounts of amplification
of non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
    [00105]      Fig. lOB shows the limit of detection of Staphylococcus aureus in a sample.
The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of
copies of Staphylococcus aureus message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added
copies of the target marker).
    100106]      Fig. II A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a staphylocccus
marker (Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus - MRSA) at times well before any
significant amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The
horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of temperature was used; each
unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may
be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence
(relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [00107]      Fig. 1 B shows the limit of detection of MRSA Staphylococcus aureus in a
sample. The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection
(rises significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers
of copies of MRSA Staphylococcus aureus message; "NTC" indicates "no template control"
(no added copies of the target marker).
    100108]      Fig. 12A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a streptococcus
marker (Streptococcus Group A) at times well before any significant amounts of
                                                Page 36

amplification of ion-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is
denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles"
is approximately one minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms
of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence
units, RFU), in thousands.
    100109]      Fig. 1213 shows the limit of detection of Streptococcus Group A in a sample.
The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of
copies of Streptococcus Group A message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added
copies of the target marker).
    [00110]      Fig. 13A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a Bordetella
pertussis marker at tines well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target
nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no
cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that
the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is
shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [00111]      Fig. 13B shows detection of Bordetella pertussis in a sample. The height of the
bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly above
the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of copies of Bordetella
pertussis message (as final DNA copy per pL); "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no
added copies of the target marker).
    [00112]      Fig. 14A shows amplification over time, showing detection of an adenovirus B
marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic
acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of
temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that the
numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in
units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [00113]      Fig. 14B shows the limit of detection of Adenovirus B in a sample. The height
of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly
above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of copies of
Adenovirus B message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added copies of the target
marker).
                                                Page 37

    [00114]      Fig. 15A shows amplification over time, showing detection of an adenovirus C
marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic
acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of
temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that the
numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in
units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units. RFU). in thousands.
    [00115]      Fig. 15B shows the limit of detection of Adenovirus C in a sample. The height
of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly
above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of copies of
Adenovirus C message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added copies of the target
marker).
    100116]      Fig. 16A shows amplification over time, showing detection of an adenovirus E
marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target nucleic
acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no cycling of
temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that the
numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is shown in
units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    100117]      Fig. 16B shows the limit of detection of Adenovirus E in a sample. The height
of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises significantly
above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of copies of
Adenovirus E message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added copies of the target
marker).
    [00118]      Fig. 17A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a Herpes
Simplex Virus (HSV) marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of
non-target nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles"
although no cycling of temperature was used; each unit of"cycles      " is approximately one
minute, so that the numbers of the horizontal axis may be read in terms of minutes. The
vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in
thousands.
    100119]      Fig. 17B shows the limit of detection of Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) in a
sample. The height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection
(rises significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers
                                                Page 38

of copies of HSV message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added copies of the
target marker).
    [001201     Fig. 18A shows amplification over time, showing detection of a Treponema
pallidun marker at times well before any significant amounts of amplification of non-target
nucleic acid message occurred. The horizontal axis is denominated in "cycles" although no
cycling of temperature was used; each unit of "cycles " is approximately one minute, so that
the numbers of the horizontal axis rnay be read in terms of minutes. The vertical axis is
shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [001211     Fig. 18B shows the limit of detection of Treponema pallidum in a sample. The
height of the bars indicates the time until the copy number shows an inflection (rises
significantly above the background level), with the horizontal axis indicating numbers of
copies of Treponema pallidum message; "NTC" indicates "no template control" (no added
copies of the target marker).
    [001221     Fig. 19A shows amplification over time, the rise in relative fluorescence at
about 15 to 20 minutes indicating the presence of an Influenza HNI        seasonal marker. The
horizontal axis is in "minutes; the vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence
(relative fluorescence units, RFU).
    100123]     Fig. 19B shows amplification of "no template control" (no added copies of the
target marker: NTC). Note that most experiments showed no amplification; the three runs that
show late increases in relative fluorescence did so at about 25 minutes or later. The horizontal
axis is in "minutes; the vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative
fluorescence units, RFU).
    100124]     Fig. 20A shows an exemplary vessel for holding a swab (a swab vessel) and
an exemplary cartridge (which includes cavities and wells for reagents and vessels, and is
configured to hold reagent vessels, reaction vessels, and other vessels and implements).
Arrows leading away from the swab vessel indicate how the swab vessel may be placed into a
receptacle in the cartridge.
    [00125]     Fig. 20B shows an exemplary swab vessel (configured for holding a swab) and
an exemplary cartridge (which includes cavities and wells for reagents and vessels, and is
configured to hold reagent vessels, reaction vessels, and other vessels and implements). In
addition to the cavities and wells configured to hold reagent vessels, reaction vessels, and
other vessels and implements as shown in the embodiment of Fig. 20A, the exemplary
                                                Page 39

cartridge shown in Fig. 20B includes cavities and wells suitable for holding other sample
vessels, e.g., blood or urine sample vessels, in addition to swab vessels. Arrows leading away
from the swab vessel indicate how the swab vessel may be placed into a receptacle in the
cartridge.
    [00126]      Fig. 20C shows an exemplary swab vessel, and an exemplary cartridge which
includes cavities and wells for holding a swab and a swab vessel, as well as cavities and wells
configured to hold reagent vessels, reaction vessels, and other vessels and implements (which
may optionally include other sample vessels, e.g., blood or urine sample vessels). Arrows
leading away from the swab indicate how the swab may be placed into a swab receptacle in
the cartridge. Arrows leading away from the swab vessel indicate how the swab vessel may
be placed into a swab vessel receptacle in the cartridge.
    100127]      Fig. 2 1 shows examples of swabs which may be used to obtain samples from
the throat, nasal passages, cheeks, or other body locations of subjects.
    [001281      Fig. 22 shows various panels naming disorders which may be identified by the
methods and devices discussed herein.
    [00129]      Fig. 23A shows various influenza panels naming influenza types which may
be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein.
    100130]      Fig. 23B shows inflection times for several influenza types which may be
identified by the methods and devices discussed herein.
    [00131]      Fig. 24A shows various respiratory disease panels naming respiratory disease
types which may be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein.
    [00132]      Fig. 24B shows inflection times for upper and lower respiratory tract disease
types which may be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein.
    [00133]      Fig. 25A shows various hospital acquired infectious disease panels naming
respiratory disease types which may be identified by the methods and devices discussed
herein,
    [00134]      Fio. 25B shows inflection times for various hospital acquired infectious
disease panels naming respiratory disease types which may be identified by the methods and
devices discussed herein.
    [00135]      Fig. 26 shows results of an assay for influenza A that is designed to be
inclusive for all Influenza A subtypes. The results are specific.
    100136]      Fig. 27 shows the specificity of the nucleic acid assays for the target H2N2
influenza type.
                                                Page 40

    [00137]     Fig. 28 shows the specificity of the nucleic acid assays for the target H IN1
seasonal influenza type.
    [001381     Fig. 29 lists potential interfering substances for the sexually transmitted
disease (STD) panel that were found not to interfere with the nucleic acid assays.
    [00139]     Fig. 30 lists potential interfering substances for the sexually transmitted
disease (STD) urine panel that were found not to interfere with the nucleic acid assays.
    100140]     Fig. 31 lists potential interfering substances for the blood panel that were
found not to interfere with the nucleic acid assays.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [001411     Description and disclosure of examples of reagents, assays, methods, kits,
devices, and systems which may be used with the methods, assays, reagents, devices and
systems disclosed herein may be found, for example, in U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S. Patent
8,380,541; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,798, filed February 18, 2013; U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/769,820, filed February 18, "2013;PCT/US2012/57155, filed September 25,
2012; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,949, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Application Serial
No. 61/766,095, filed February 18, 2013;        .S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/874,976,
filed September 6, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/885,462, filed October 1,
2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 62/001,039, filed May 20, 2014; U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 62/001,053, filed May 21, 2014; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
62/010.382. filed June 10, 2014; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/673,245, filed September 26,
2011; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/885,467, filed October 1, 2013; U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 61/879,664, filed September 18, 2013; and U.S. Patent Application
61/805,923, filed March 27, 2013, the disclosures of which patents and patent applications
are all hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
    1001421     Disclosure of methods of detecting nucleic acid targets include, for example,
methods, assays, reagents, and devices as disclosed in U.S. Application Serial No.
61/800.606. filed March 15, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/908,027, filed November
22, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 62/001,050, filed May 2.0, 2014; U.S. Application
Serial No. 14/214,850, filed March 15, 2014; PCT/US2014/030034, filed March 15, 2014;
U.S. Application Serial No. 61/800,241, filed March 15, 2013; and U.S. Application Serial
No. 61/800,340, filed March 15, 2013; the disclosures of which patent applications are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. Further methods for the detection of
                                                  Page 41

nucleic acid targets include, for example, Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) methods
described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,683,195; and generally in Mullis et al., Cold Spring
Harbor Symp.     Quant. Biol. 51:263 (1987); Erlich, ed., PCR Technology (Stockton Press, NY,
 1989).
     [00143]     Disclosure of methods for detecting protein targets, including antibody
methods, may be found, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,376,110; U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567;
U.S. Pat. No. 7429652; European Patent EP 404,097; and International Patent Application
Publication WO 93/11161, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entireties. Further methods for the detection of protein targets (generically termed
"immunoassays" herein) include, for example, direct or competitive binding assays using
techniques such as western blots, radioimmunoassays, ELISA (enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay), "sandwich" immunoassays, inmunoprecipitation assays, fluorescent
immun oassays, and protein A immunoassays.
     100144]     Disclosure regarding systems, devices, and methods for analyzing clinical
samples, including clinical samples such as small-volume clinical samples, and including
systems, devices, and methods for analyzing small-volume clinical samples in short periods
of time, may be found, for example, in U.S. Patent 8,380,541: U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S.
Patent 8,380,541; U.S. Pat. Application Serial No. 13/769,798, filed February 18, 2013; U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,820, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013; PCT/US2012/57155, filed September 25,
2012; U.S. Patent Application 61/805,923, filed March 27, 2013; and incorporated by
reference herein (supra).
     [001451     Before the present novel target-binding molecules, compositions, assays,
methods, and kits are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that the terminology used
herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be
limiting. It is also to be understood that the present disclosure provides explanatory and
exemplary descriptions and examples, so that, unless otherwise indicated, the molecules,
compositions, assays, methods, and kits disclosed herein are not limited to the specific
embodiments described herein.
     [001461     It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a salt" refers to a single salt or mixtures of
different salts, and the like.
                                                Page 42

     [00147]     In this specification and in the claims that follow, reference will be made to a
number of terms, which shall be defined to have the following meanings:
     [001481     Acronyms and abbreviations, such as "rpm" (revolutions per minute), "min"
(minute), "see" (second), and so forth, have their customary meanings.
     [00149]     As used herein, the terms "normal" and "normal level" refer to the levels of a
marker as found in a healthy population of normal subjects. For example, the normal level for
a particular type of white blood cell found is the level of that type of white blood cell found
in blood samples front a healthy population of normal subjects.
     [00150]     As used herein, the terms "high" and "high level" and the like refer to levels
that significantly exceed normal levels, that is, a high level of a marker is one that
significantly exceeds the levels of that marker that is found in a healthy population of nonnal
subjects.
     [00151]     As used herein, the terms "low" and "low level" and the like refer to levels
that are below normal levels, that is, a low level of a marker is one that is below the levels of
that marker that is found in a healthy population of normal subjects.
     [00152]     It will be understood that, where a marker is typically absent, or scarce, in
normal subjects, a normal level of a marker may be very low in absolute numbers (e.g., as
measured by numbers of markers per unit volume, or weight of marker per unit volume), and
still be the normal level for that marker. Thus, for example, where the marker is an antibody
to a particular infectious disease, and most healthy normal subjects have not been recently
exposed to that particular disease, the normal levels of antibodies to that disease may be low
in absolute terms, and levels in a subject that exceed the normal level would indicate that the
subject has recently been exposed to, or is suffering an infection by, that disease.
     [00153]     The term "isolated" as used herein when used to describe the various nucleic
acids and proteins disclosed herein, means the nucleic acid or protein (or other molecule) has
been separated and/or recovered from at least one contamninant with which it is ordinarily
associated. Ordinarily, however, isolated nucleic acids and proteins will be prepared by at
least one purification step.
     100154]     The term "moiety" as used herein refers to any particular composition of
matter, e.g., a molecular fragment, an intact molecule, or a mixture of materials.
     [00155]     As used herein, the terms "disease-causing agent", "disease-causing organism"
and plurals and grammatical equivalents are used interchangeably to refer to viruses, bacteria,
yeast, and other micro-organisms which may cause disease in a subject. Thus, when referring
                                                 Page 43

to diseases and their causes, the terms "agent", "organism" and plurals and grammatical
equivalents are used interchangeably herein.
     [001561     As used herein, the term "virus" refers to organisms which include nucleic
acid message (either RINA or DNA) which allows their replication in infected host cells. The
term virus includes both DNA viruses or RNA viruses. Viruses may cause diseases.
     100157]     As used herein, the term "micro-organism" refers to small unicellular or
multicellular organisms which may infect cells, organs, tissues, or surfaces of plants or
animals, including humans. The term microorganism includes bacteria (including
mycoplasma), archea, fungus, yeast, parasites, and other small organisms. Micro-organisms
may cause diseases.
     [00158]     As used herein, the term "bacteria" refers to small unicellular, prokaryotic
organisms which may infect cells, organs, tissues, or surfaces of plants or animals, including
humans. The term bacteria includes Gram negative bacteria and Grain positive bacteria.
Bacteria may cause diseases. Mycoplasmna are a form of bacteria that lack cell walls.
     [001591     As used herein, the term "drug" is used broadly to refer to any agent which
may be administered to a subject for the purpose of treating a disease or condition suffered by
the subject; such treating may include prevention, amelioration of symptoms, hastening
recovery, strengthening the patient in the face of a disease or condition, as well as directly
combatting the disease or condition. Where the disease or condition results from an infection,
e.g., is due to an infectious disease, the drug may be, without limitation, an antibiotic, an anti
viral drug, an anti-fungal drug, an anti-mycoplasinal drug, an anti-yeast drug, or
combinations thereof.
     [00160]     As used herein, the term "antibiotic" is used broadly to refer to drugs which
act to reduce or eliminate bacterial infections. Antibiotics include, without limitation,
penicillin, amnpicillin, amoxicillin, tetracycline, oxytetracycline, doxycycline, mninocycline, a
sulfonamnide sulfa-drug (such as, e.g., sulfanilamide, sulfamethoxazole, sulfadiazine),
erythromycin, ciprofloxacin, gentamycin, oligomycin, azithromycin, clarithromycin, a
cephalosporin, e.g., cefaclor, cefprozil, cefuroxime axetil, loracarbef, cefdinir, cefixime,
cefpodoxime proxetil, ceftibuten, or ceftriaxone, gramicidin, valinomnycin, nonactin,
alamethicin, and other antibiotics.
     100161]     As used herein, the term "anti-mycoplasma" is used broadly to refer to drugs
which act to reduce or eliminate bacterial infections where the bacteria are mycoplasma.
                                                 Page 44

Antibiotics that target the cell wall are typically ineffective against mycoplasma, which lack
cell walls. Antibiotics such as, e.g., plasmocin, doxocycline, minocycline, gramicidin,
valinonycin, nonactin,alamethicin, macrolide antibiotics, and others may be used to treat
mycoplasmal infections.
     [00162]    As used herein, the term "anti-viral" is used broadly to refer to drugs which
act to reduce or eliminate viral infections. Ant-viral drugs include, for example, zanamivir,
oseltamivir, acyclovir, adefovir, darunivir, famciclovir, ganciclovir, nexavir, rifampicin,
pieconaril, amantadine, rimantadine, and others.
     [001631    As used herein, the term "anti-ffungal" is used broadly to refer to drugs which
act to reduce or eliminate fungus infections. Ant-fungal drugs include, for example,
amphotericin, nystatin, candicin, filipin, hamycin, netanycin, rimocydin, bifonazole,
clotrimazole, other imidazole, triazole, and thiazoles, and others. Some drugs which may be
used to treat fungal infections may also be suitable for treating yeast infections.
     [001641    As used herein, the term "anti-yeast" is used broadly to refer to drugs which
act to reduce or eliminate yeast infections. Anti-yeast drugs include, for example,
animycotics such as, e.g., clotrimazole, nystatin, fluconazole, ketocotiazole, amphotericin,
gentian violet, and other drugs. Some drugs which may be used to treat yeast infections may
also be suitable for treating fingal infections.
     [00165]    As used herein, the phrase "nucleic acid markers indicative of' a particular
infection refers to nucleic acid molecules (including single-stranded and double-stranded
DNA and RNA molecules) and fragments thereof, which are derived from disease-causing
organisms, or are copies of, or are substantially similar to, or are complementary to, nucleic
acid molecules derived from the organism which causes that particular infectious disease.
Detection of nucleic acid markers indicative of a particular infection in a sample indicates
that the disease-causing organism is, or was, present in the sample and thus that the subject
has been exposed to the disease-causing organism, and likely suffers or suffered from the
particular infection caused by that particular disease-causing organism.
     [00166]    As used herein, the phrase "antibody markers indicative of' a particular
infection refers to antibodies (or portions or fragments thereof) which are directed to an
antigen or antigens found on the organisms that cause that particular infectious disease.
Detection of antibody markers indicative of a particular infection in a sample indicates that
the disease-causing organism is, or was, present in the sample and thus that the subject has
                                                Page 45

been exposed to the disease-causing organism, and likely suffers or suffered from the
particular infection caused by that particular disease-causing organism.
    [001671     As used herein, a nucleic acid comprises a molecule made up of nucleotides,
and refers to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and to ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecules.
    100168]     As used herein, "nucleic acid" includes both DNA and RNA, including DNA
and RNA containing non-standard nucleotides. A "nucleic acid" contains at least one
polynucleotide (a "nucleic acid strand"). A "nucleic acid" may be single-stranded or double
stranded. The term "nucleic acid" refers to nucleotides and nucleosides which make up, for
example, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) macromolecules and ribonucleic acid (RNA)
macromolecules. Nucleic acids may be identified by the base attached to the sugar (e.g.
deoxyribose or ribose); as used herein, the following abbreviations for these bases are used to
represent nucleic acids in sequence listings identifying and describing their structures (either
upper-case or lower-case may be used).
                                           TABLE 1A
                 Base (in Nucleic Acid)            Leitem Code
                 Adenine                           A
                 lhxnnne                           'T
                 Guanine                            G
                 Cytosine                           C
    [001691     As used herein, a "polynucleotide" refers to a polymeric chain containing two
or more nucleotides. "Polynucleotides" includes primers, oligonucleotides, nucleic acid
strands, etc. A polynucleotide may contain standard or non-standard nucleotides. Typically,
a polynucleotide contains a 5' phosphate at one terminus ("5' terminus") and a 3' hydroxyl
group at the other terminus ("3' terminus) of the chain. The most 5' nucleotide of a
polynucleotide may be referred to herein as the "5' terminal nucleotide" of the
polynucleotide. The most 3' nucleotide of a polynucleotide may be referred to herein as the
"3' terminal nucleotide" of the polynucleotide.
    [00170]     As used herein, a"target" nucleic acid or molecule refers to a nucleic acid of
interest. A target nucleic acid / molecule may be of any type, including single-stranded or
double stranded DNA or RNA (e.g. mRNA).
    [00171]     As used herein, a nucleic acid molecule which is described as containing the
"sequence" of a template or other nucleic acid may also be considered to contain the template
                                               Page 46

or other nucleic acid itself (e.g. a molecule which is described as containing the sequence of a
template may also be described as containing the template), unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
    [00172]     As used herein, "complementary" sequences refer to two nucleotide sequences
which, when aligned anti-parallel to each other, contain multiple individual nucleotide bases
which pair with each other. It is not necessary for every nucleotide base in two sequences to
pair with each other for sequences to be considered "complemetitary". Sequences may be
considered complementary, for example, if at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
 15%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%, or 100% of the nucleotide bases in two sequences
pair with each other. In addition, sequences may still be considered "complementary" when
the total lengths of the two sequences are significantly different from each other. For
example, a primer of 15 nucleotides may be considered "complementary" to a longer
polynucleotide containing hundreds of nucleotides if multiple individual nucleotide bases of
the primer pair with nucleotide bases in the longer polynucleotide when the primer is aligned
anti-parallel to a particular region of the longer polynucleotide.
    [001731     As used herein, a "concatemer" refers to a nucleic acid molecule which
contains within it two or more copies of a particular nucleic acid, wherein the copies are
linked in series. Within the concatemer, the copies of the particular nucleic acid may be
linked directly to each other, or they may be indirectly linked (e.g. there may be nucleotides
between the copies of the particular nucleic acid). In an example, the particular nucleic acid
may be that of a double-stranded nucleic acid template, such that a concatemer may contain
two or more copies of the double-stranded nucleic acid template. In another example, the
particular nucleic acid may be that of a polynucleotide template, such that a concatemer may
contain two or more copies of the poinucleotide template.
    [00174]     As used herein, a "saccharide" is a molecule comprising one, a few, or
multiple sugar moieties, and includes monosaccharides, oligosaccharides, and
polysaccharides.
    [001751     As used herein, a protein comprises a molecule made up of amino acids, the
amino acids covalently linked by amide bonds. The terns "peptide", "polypeptide" and
"protein" may be used interchangeably to refer to molecules comprised of amino acids linked
by peptide bonds. Individual amino acids may be termed "residues" of a polypeptide or
                                                Page 47

protein. The amino acid sequences of polypeptides disclosed herein may be identified by
SEQ ID NO: presented as a string of letters, where the letters have the following meanings:
                                            TABLE 1B
AminoAcid                          3-Letter Code                      I-Letter Code
Alanine                           Ala                                 A
Arginine                          Arg                                 R
Aspartic acid                     Asp                                 D
Cysteine                           Cys                                C
Glutamic acid                      Glu                                E
Glutamine                          Gln                                Q
Glycine_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Gl                                          G
Histidine                          His                                H
Isoleucine                         lie                                I
Lysine                             Lys                                K
Methionine                         Met                                M
Phenylalanine                      Phe                                F
Proline                            Pro                                P
Serine                             Ser                                S
Threonine                          Thr                                T
Tryptophan                         Ti'                                W
Tyrosine                           Tiyr
Valine                            Val                                 V
    [001761     As used herein, a "cytokine" is a naturally occurring protein molecules often
released in mammals in response to injury, infection, inflammation, or other stressor.
Cytokines include lymphokines, interleukins, chemokines, interferons, and other cytokines.
Cytokines may be inflammatory cytokines (tending to cause inflammation; also termed pro
inflammatory cytokines) or may be anti-inflammatory cytokines (tending to suppress
inflanmnation). Inflammatory cytokines include, for example, interleukin- I (IL- 1),
interieukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin- 12 (IL- 12), interleukin- 18 (IL- 18) gamma interferon (IFN
y), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a). Anti-inflammatory cytokines include, for
example, interleukin-10 (IL-10). Some cytokines may have multiple actions or effects (e.g.,
interleukin-6 (IL-6) has both inflammatory and anti-inflammatory effects).
    100177]     As used herein, the terms "marker of inflammation", "inflammatory marker",
and plurals and grammatical equivalents thereof refer to markers which may be detected in a
sample, and which may be identified in a sample, which indicate the presence of, or level of,
inflammation in the subject from which the sample was obtained. Markers of inflammation
                                                 Page 48

include both peptide and non-peptide markers; for example, markers of inflainniation include,
without limitation, prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-A), interleukin- 1 (IL-I),
interieukin-8 (IL-8) interleukin- 12 (IL1-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin,
complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
other cells.
      [00178]   The term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers
single monoclonal antibodies (including agonist and antagonist antibodies), antibody
compositions with polyepitopic specificity, and antibody fragments, and includes human an
humanized antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are obtained from a population of substantially
homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising the population are
identical except for possible naturally-occurring mutations that may be present in minor
amounts. The most abundant class of antibodies is the IgG class, characterized by having
molecular weights of about 150 kD.
      [00179]   The term "monoclonal antibody" (mAb) as used herein refers to an antibody
obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual
antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring
mutations that may be present in ninor amounts. For example, monoclonal antibodies may be
made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al, Nature, 256:495 (1975), or
may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567 to Cabilly et
al.),
      [00180]   The term "intact antibody" refers to the complete antibody, or the amino acid
sequence of the complete antibody, of which an antibody fragment is a part. It will be
understood that an antibody fragment may be produced by partial digestion (e.g., by papain
or pepsin) of an intact antibody, or may be produced by recombinant or other means.
      [00181]   "Antibody fragment", and all grammatical variants thereof, as used herein is
defined as a (1) portion of an intact antibody comprising the antigen binding site or variable
region of the intact antibody, wherein the portion is free of the constant heavy chain domains
of the Fe region of the intact antibody, and (2) constructs comprising a portion of an intact
antibody (as defined by the amino acid sequence of the intact antibody) comprising the
antigen binding site or variable region of the intact antibody.
      [00182]   An antibody fragment is, or comprises, a polypeptide having a primary
structure consisting of one uninterrupted sequence of contiguous amino acid residues having
                                                Page 49

the amino acid sequence of an intact antibody. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab,
Fab', Fab-SH, F(ab')2, Fd, Fe, Fv, diabodies, and any other "Non-single-chain antigen-
binding unit" as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 7429652.
    [001831      The term "diabodies" refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen
binding sites, which fragments comprise a heavy chain variable domain connected to a light
chain variable domain in the same polypeptide chain. By using a linker that is too short to
allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain, the domains are forced to pair
with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen-binding sites.
Diabodies are described more fully in, for example, EP 404,097; WO 93/11161; and
Hollinger et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 90:6444-6448 (1993).
    [001841      As used herein, an "antigen-binding antibody fragment" is any antibody
fragment that retains the ability to bind to the specific target to which the intact antibody
specifically binds. An antigen-binding antibody fragment may have different (e.g., lesser)
binding affinity for the target antigen than the intact antibody. As used herein, unless
otherwise stated, an antibody fragment is an antigen-binding antibody fragment
    [00185]      An antibody that "specifically binds to" or is "specific for" a particular
polypeptide or, an epitope on a particular polypeptide is one that binds to that particular
polypeptide or epitope on a particular polypeptide without substantially binding to any other
polypeptide or polypeptide epitope.
    [00186]      The terms "antigen", "target molecule", "target polypeptide", "target epitope",
and the like are used herein to denote the molecule specifically bound by an antibody or
antibody fragment.
    [00187]      As used herein, a "marker", a "label", a "marker moiety" and a "label moiety"
refer to a detectable compound or composition which is conjugated directly or indirectly to
the antibody so as to generate a "labeled" antibody. A label or marker provides a detectable
signal for at least the time period during which a signal is to be observed. The label or marker
may be detectable by itself (e.g. radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels) or, in the case of an
enzymatic label, may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition
which is detectable.
    [00188]      A label or marker moiety may be, for example, a dye, an epitope tag, a
fluorescent moiety, a luminescent moiety, a chemilumninescent moiety, an enzymatic label, a
magnetic label, a paramagnetic label, a contrast agent, a nanoparticle, a radioisotope, biotin,
streptavidin, and a quencher. A nanopaiicle may be a particle of an element, such as a gold
nanoparticle, or of an alloy or compound, such as a quantum dot (a particle of a
                                                Page 50

semiconductor material), or other particle having a size typically in a range between about I
nim to about 100 rn.
    [00189]      A label or marker moiety may provide a signal by reflecting, or modulating,
energy impinging on the label or marker moiety, A label or marker moiety may provide a
signal by emitting, or by increasing, a detectable signal. Similarly, a label or marker noiety
may provide a signal by diminishing, or extinguishing, a signal (e.g., the quenching of a
signal). It will be understood that a label or marker moiety may be directly detectable (e.g.,
may provide a detectable signal without further action or input of energy), or may use or
require energy, a substrate, a binding partner, or other action in order to provide a detectable
signal. An enzymatic label may be suitable for use with a binding partner or substrate; for
example, a peroxidase such as horseradish peroxidase may serve as a label as it may be used
to detect the presence of a target, or to measure the amount of target, when used with, e.g.,
diaminobenzidine or other molecule suitable for use with a peroxidase; for another, non
limiting example, Juciferase may serve as a label as it may be used to detect the presence of a
target, or to measure the amount of target, when used with luciferin.
    [00190]      As used herein, the term "chromogen" refers to a compound which may be
readily converted into a dye or other colored compound.
    [001911      As used herein, "BSA" means bovine serum albumin; "PEG" means
polyethylene glycol; "ELISA" means enzyme-linked immnunosorbent assay; and other terms,
abbreviations, and acronyms have the standard meanings understood in the chemical and
biological arts.
    [00192]      A composition may include a buffer. Buffers include, without limitation,
phosphate, citrate, ammonium, acetate, carbonate, tris(hydroxymethvl)aminomethane (TRIS),
3-( Nmorpoiino) propanesulfonic acid (MOPS), 3-morpholino-2-hydroxypropanesulfonic
acid (MOPSO), 2-(V-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES), N42-Acetamido)
iminodiacetic acid (ADA), piperazine-N,N'-bis(2-ethanesuifonic acid) (PIPES), N--(2
Acetami do)-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid (ACES), cholamine chloride, N,N-iBis(2
hydroxyethyVl)-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid (BES), 2-[[1,3-dihydroxy-2
(iydroxymniethyl)propan-2-yl] amino]ethanesulfonic acid (TES), 4-(2-       droxyethyl)-l
pthanesulfonic              acid (HEPES), acetamidoglycine, tricine (N--(2-Hydroxy-1,i
bis(hvdroxymethyl)ethvl)glycine), glycinamide, and bicine (2-(Bis(2
hydroxyethyi)ainno)acetic acid) buffers. Buffers include other organic acid buffers in
                                                Page 51

addition to the phosphate, citrate, ammonium, acetate, and carbonate buffers explicitly
mentioned herein.
    [001931       A composition may include a physiologically acceptable carrier. For example,
a physiologically acceptable carrier may be an aqueous pi buffered solution. Examples of
physiologically acceptable carriers include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other
organic acids as discussed above; antioxidants including ascorbic acid; low molecular weight
(less than about 10 residues) polypeptides; proteins, such as, e.g., serum albumin, gelatin,
cytochromes, and imnunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone;
amino acids such as glycine, glutanine, asparagine, arginine or lysine; monosaccharides,
disaccharides, polysaccharides, and other carbohydrates including glucose, mannose, and
dextrins; cheating agents such as ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA); sugar alcohols
such as mannitol or sorbitol; salt-forming counterions such as sodium, potassium, calcium,
magnesium and others; nonionic surfactants such as TWEENT1", polyethylene glycol (PEG),
and PLURDNCSTM; and/or other compounds known in the art
    [001941       For example, a composition may include albumin, gelatin, cytochrone C, an
immunoglobulin, an amino acid, agar, glycerol, ethylene glycol, a protease inhibitor, an
antimicrobial agent, a metal chelating agent, a monosaccharide, a disaccharide, a
polysaccharide, a reducing agent, a chelating agent, or combinations thereof
    100195        As used herein, a "sample", or "biological sample", or "clinical sample" refers
to a sample of fluid, tissue, secretion, or excretion obtained from a subject. A sample,
biological sample, or clinical sample may be a sample of blood, serum, plasma, saliva,
sputum, urine, gastric fluid, digestive fluid, tears, sweat, stool, semen, vaginal fluid,
interstitial fluid, fluid derived from tumorous tissue, ocular fluids, mucus, earwax, oil,
glandular secretions, spinal fluid, skin, cerebrospinal fluid from within the skull, tissue, fluid
or material from a nasal swab, a throat swab, a mouth swab (e.g., a cheek swab), a vaginal
swab, or nasopharyngeal wash, biopsy fluid or material, placental fluid, amniotic fluid, cord
blood, lymphatic fluids, cavity fluids, pus, nicrobiota obtained from a subject, meconium,
breast milk, or other secretion or excretion. A sample may be a breath sample, a hair sample,
a fingernail sample, or other sample.
    [00196]       Biological and clinical samples may include nasopharyngeal wash, or other
fluid obtained by washing a body cavity or surface of a subject, or by washing a swab
following application of the swab to a body cavity or surface of a subject. Nasal swabs,
mouth swabs (including cheek swabs), throat swabs, vaginal swabs, stool samples, hair,
                                                Page 52

finger nail, ear wax, breath, and other solid, semi-solid, or gaseous samples may be processed
in an extraction buffer, e.g., for a fixed or variable anoit of time, prior to their analysis. The
extraction buffer or an aliquot thereof may then be processed similarly to other fluid samples
if desired. Examples of tissue samples of the subject may include but are not limited to,
connective tissue, muscle tissue, nervous tissue, epithelial tissue, cartilage, cancerous sample,
or bone. The sample may be obtained from a human or animal. The sample may be obtained
from a vertebrate, e.g., a bird, fish, or mammal, such as a rat, a mouse, a pig, an ape, another
primate (including humans), a farm animal, a sport animal, or a pet. The sample may be
obtained from a living or dead subject. The sample may be obtained fresh from a subject or
may have undergone some form of pre-processing, storage, or transport.
    [00197]      As used herein, a "small volume" refers to a volume of less than about I mL,
or less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 PL, or less than 150 pL, or less than about
 100 pL, or less than about 50 [iL, or less than about 25 pL, or less. In particular
embodiments, a small volume, such as a "finger-stick" volume, may comprise less than about
250 p., and typically comprises less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than
about 50 PL, or less than about 25 pL, or less.
    [001981      A sample may be divided into two or more portions. As used herein, when
referring to a sample or samples, the terms "portion" and "aliquot" and their plurals and
grammatical equivalents are used interchangeably to refer to a fractional amount of sample
taken from an original complete sample. Such a fraction may be any fraction or amount, so
that a portion or aliquot may comprise most of the original sample, a large fraction of the
original sample, a small fraction of the original sample, or a relatively small fraction of the
original sample. The phrases "at least a portion", "at least an aliquot", and the like, may refer
both to a fractional part of an original sample and to the entire original sample.
    [001991      Detection of markers, and detection of disease-causing (or other) organisms
may include detection of nucleic acid markers; detection of protein (peptide) markers,
including detection of antibodies; detection of markers of inflammation (including both
peptide and non-peptide markers); and detection of other markers. Identification of markers,
and of disease-causing (or other) organisms may include identification of nucleic acid
markers; identification of protein (peptide) markers, including identification of antibodies;
identification of markers of inflammation (including both peptide and non-peptide markers);
and identification of other markers. Detection and identification of markers and organisms
may include quantitative detection and identification of such markers and such organisms.
                                                 Page 53

     [00200]     A method may be performed in a short period of time. A device may be
capable of performing all steps of a method in a short period of time. A device may be
capable of performing all steps of a method on a single sample in a short amount of time. A
device may be capable of performing all steps of a method on two samples, such as a blood
sample and a sample obtained from a swab, in a short amount of time. A device may be
capable of performing all steps of a method on more than two samples in a short amount of
time. For example, from sample collection from a subject to detecting a disease marker, or to
detecting multiple disease markers, may take about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, I hour or
less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40 minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes
or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less, 5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes
or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less. For example, from sample collection from a
subject to transmitting data regarding, and/or to analysis of, a sample or samples may take
about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, 1 hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40
minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less,
5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less.
     [002011     For example, the period of time from initiating a method of detecting a disease
marker to detecting a disease marker, or to detecting multiple disease markers, may be about
3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, I hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40
minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less,
5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less.
For example, the period of time from initiating a method of detecting a disease marker to
transmitting data regarding such detection may be about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, I
hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40 minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20
minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less, 5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3
minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less.
     [00202]      The period of time from accepting a sample within the device to detecting a
disease marker, or to detecting a plurality of disease markers, or to transmitting data
regarding, and/or to analysis of, a sample or samples may depend on the type or number of
steps, tests, or assays performed on the sample or samples. The amount of time from
accepting a sample, or samples, within the device to detecting a disease marker or markers, or
to transmitting data and/or to analysis from the device regarding such a sample or samples
may take about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, 1 hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes
or less, 40 minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10
                                                Page 54

minutes or less, 5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1
minute or less.
     [002031     Thus, as used herein, a "short period of time" refers to a period of time of
about 5 hours or less, or about 4 hours or less, or about 3 hours or less, or about 2 hours or
less, or about I hour or less, or about 50 minutes or less, or about 40 minutes or less, or about
30 minutes or less, or about 20 minutes or less, or about 10 minutes or less, or about 5
minutes or less.. A short period of time may be determined with respect to arn initial time; the
initial time may be the time at which a sample analysis began; the initial tine may be the time
at which a sample is inserted into a device for the analysis of the sample; the initial time may
be the time at which a sample was obtained from a subject.
     [00204]     The terns "point of service" (abbreviated POS) and "point of service system,"
as used herein, refer to a location, and a system at that location, that is capable of providing a
service (e.g. testing, monitoring, treatment, diagnosis, guidance, sample collection,
verification of identity (ID verification), and other services) at or near the site or location of
the subject. A service may be a medical service, and may be a non-medical service. In some
situations, a POS system provides a service at a predetermined location, such as a subject's
home, school, or work, or at a grocery store, a drug store, a community center, a clinic, a
doctor's office, a hospital, etc. A POS system can include one or more point of service
devices. In some embodiments, a POS system is a point of care system.
     100205]     A "point of care" (abbreviated POC) is a location at which medical-related
care (e.g. treatment, testing, monitoring, diagnosis, counseling, etc.) is provided. A POC may
be, e.g. at a subject's home, work, or school, or at a grocery store, a community center, a drug
store, a doctor's office, a clinic, a hospital, etc. A POC system is a system which may aid in,
or may be used in, providing such medical-related care, and may be located at or near the site
or location of the subject or the subject's health care provider (e.g. subject's home, work, or
school, or at a grocery store, a community center, a drug store, a doctor's office, a clinic, a
hospital, etc.).
     100206]     As used herein, the term "immunoassay" refers to any assay which detects,
identifies, characterizes, quantifies, or otherwise measures an amino acid target in a sample
(where an amino acid target may be a small peptide, a polypeptide, a protein, or
proteinaceous macromolecule). Immunoassays include, for example, direct or competitive
binding assays using techniques such as western blots, radioimnniuroassays, ELISA (enzyme
linked immunosorbent assay), "sandwich" immunoassays, inmunoprecipitation assays,
                                                 Page 55

fluorescent inmunoassays, and protein A nimunoassays. Imnnunoassays typically use
antibodies or antibody fragments, but may also use binding proteins or carrier proteins which
bind target molecules with high specificity.
    [002071      As used herein, the term "nucleic acid assay" is used to refer to any assay
which detects, identifies, characterizes, quantifies, or otherwise measures a nucleic acid target
in a sample (where a nucleic acid target may be a single stranded, double stranded, or other
nucleic acid molecule of any size. Nucleic acid assays include polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) assays (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 4,683,202), loop-mediated isothermal amplification
("LAMP") (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 6,410,278), and other methods, including methods
discussed below for detecting nucleic acid targets in a sample. Nucleic acid markers may be
detected by any suitable means, including means that include nucleic acid amplification (e.g.,
thermal cycling amplification methods including PCR, and other nucleic acid amplification
methods; isothermal amplification methods, including LAMP, etc.) and any other method that
can be used to detect the presence of nucleic acid markers indicative of a disease-causing
organism in a sample.
    [002081      As used herein, the term "general chemistry assay" refers to any assay which
detects, identifies, characterizes, quantifies, or otherwise measures a target in a sample, other
than a target which is a nucleic acid or other than by use of an antibody or other specifically
binding protein. General chemistry assays include, e.g., assays for electrolytes; for vitamin
levels; for blood component levels; for trace metals; for lipids; and other targets). General
chemistry assays may include, for example, assays of a Basic Metabolic Panel [glucose,
calcium, sodium (Na), potassium (K), chloride (Cl), C02 (carbon dioxide, bicarbonate),
creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN)], assays of an Electrolyte Panel [sodium (Na),
potassium (K), chloride (Cl), CO2 (carbon dioxide, bicarbonate)], assays of a Chem 14 Panel
/ Comprehensive Metabolic Panel [glucose, calcium, albumin, total protein, sodium (Na),
potassium (K), chloride (Cl), C02 (carbon dioxide, bicarbonate), creatinine, blood urea
nitrogen (BUN). alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT/GPT), aspartate
aminotransferase (AST/GOT), total bilirubin] assays of a Lipid Profile / Lipid Panel [LDL
cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides], assays of a Liver Panel /
Liver Function [alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT/GPT), aspartate
aminotransferase (AST/GOT), total bilirubin, albumin, total protein, gamma-glutamyl
transferase (GGT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), prothrombin time (PT)], alkaline
phosphatase (APase), hemoglobin, VLDL cholesterol, ethanol, lipase, pH, zinc
protoporphyin, direct bilirubin, blood typing (ABO, RHD), lead, phosphate,
                                                 Page 56

hemagglutination inhibition, magnesium, iron, iron uptake, fecal occult blood, and others,
individually or in any combination.
     [002091    As used herein the term "cytometric assay" refers to any which detects,
identifies, characterizes, quantifies, or otherwise measures a cell or large particle (e.g,, a
crystal) in a sample. Cytometric assays typically utilize imaging of other light-based
techniques to detect, measure, characterize, and quantify cells and particles in a sample.
     SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND METHODS
     [00210]    In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, including such systems
discussed above, for detecting one or more of a plurality of disease-causing agents in a
clinical sample. In embodiments, Applicants disclose systems, including such systems
discussed above, for detecting one or more of a plurality of disease-causing agents in a
clinical sample, wherein said diseases comprise respiratory diseases. In embodiments,
Applicants disclose systems, including such systems discussed above, for detecting one or
more of a plurality of disease-causing agents in a clinical sample, wherein said disease
causing agents cause respiratory diseases selected from viral diseases, bacterial diseases,
fingal diseases, mycoplasma diseases, and other diseases.
     [002111    In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents causes a number of
diseases, wherein said number of diseases comprises 8 or more diseases, or 10 or more
diseases, or 12 or more diseases, or 14 or more diseases, or 16 or more diseases, or 18 or
more diseases, or 20 or more diseases, or 30 or more diseases, or 40 or more diseases, or 50
or more diseases, or 60 or more diseases, or more. In embodiments, the plurality of disease
causing agents causes a number of diseases, wherein said diseases are selected from viral
diseases, bacterial diseases, fungal diseases, mycoplasma diseases, and other diseases.
     [002121    In embodiments, the systems disclosed herein, and the methods disclosed
herein, may be used to perform all of a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample,
or an aliquot or aliquots thereof. In embodiments, a small volume sample has a volume
selected from no more than about I mL, or no more than about 500 pL, or no more than
about 250 pl, or no more than about 150 pL, or no more than about 100 pL, or no more than
about 75 PL, or no more than about 50 pL, or no more than about 25 pL, or no tnore than
about 15 PL, or no more than about 10 pL, or no more than about 5 pL, or no more than
about 4 pt, or no more than about 3 uL, or no more than about 2 uL, or no more than about I
pL, or less than about 1 pL.
                                                Page 57

     [00213]    In embodiments, the systems disclosed herein, and the methods disclosed
herein, may be used to perform all of a plurality of assays in a short time period. In
embodiments, such a short time period comprises less than about three hours, or less than
about 2 hours, or less than about I hour, or less than about 50 minutes, or less than about 45
minutes, or less than about 40 minutes, or less than about 30 tinnutes, or less than about 20
minutes, or less than about 15 minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or less than about 5
minutes, or less than about 4 minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less than about 2
minutes, or less than about I minute.
     [002141    In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause a number
of diseases, wherein said disease-causing agents are selected from mycobacterium
tuberculosis, staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus),
streptococcus (including streptococcus Group A and streptococcus Group B), bordetella
pertussis, adenovirus (including adenovirus B, adenovirus C, and adenovirus E), influenza,
parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenovirus, corona virus, bocavirus,
haemophilus parainfluenzae, human papilloma virus (HPV), hepatitis, human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), West Nile, Epstein Barr,
Rhinovirus, and other viruses. In embodiments, the phirality of disease-causing agents causes
a number of diseases, wherein said disease-causing agents are selected from streptococcus,
staphylococcus, bordetella pertussis, tuberculosis, enterobacteria, pseudomonas, dengue,
malaria, trypanosome cruzi, treponema pallidum, mycoplasma, chlamydia, Moraxella
catarrhalis, acinetobacter, legionella, Escherichia coli, candida, chlamydia, Neisseria,
trichomonas, and other micro-organismal disease-causing agents, including but not limited to
disease-causing agents named elsewhere herein.
     [002151    In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause a number
of respiratory diseases, wherein said number of respiratory diseases comprises 8 or more
respiratory diseases, or 10 or more respiratory diseases, or 12 or more respiratory diseases, or
 14 or more respiratory diseases, or 16 or more respiratory diseases, or 18 or more respiratory
diseases, or 20 or more respiratory diseases, or 30 or more respiratory diseases, or 40 or more
respiratory diseases, or 50 or more respiratory diseases, or 60 or more respiratory diseases, or
more.
     [002161    In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause a number
of respiratory diseases, wherein said respiratory diseases are selected from viral diseases,
bacterial diseases, fungal diseases, mycoplasma diseases, and other diseases.
                                               Page 58

    [00217]      In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause a number
of respiratory diseases, wherein said respiratory disease-causing agents are selected from
mycobacterium tuberculosis, staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant
staphylococcus aureus), streptococcus (including streptococcus Group A), bordetella
pertussis, adenovirus (including adenovirus B, adenovirus C, and adenovirus E),. In
embodiments, respiratory disease-causing agents may further include one or more of
influenza, parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenovirus, corona virus,
bocavirus, haemophilus parainfluenzae, human papilloma virus (HPV), hepatitis, human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), West Nile, Epstein Barr,
Rhinovirus, and other viruses.
    [002181      In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause influenza.
In embodiments, the influenza may be selected from influenza A, influenza B, HINI
influenza (including seasonal and novel forms of influenza HINI), H3N2 influenza., H7N9
influenza, H5NI influenza, and other influenzas.
    100219]      In embodiments, the plurality of disease-causing agents may cause a sexually
transmitted disease. In embodiments, the sexually transmitted disease is selected from herpes
simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency virus (HV, including HIV-1, HIV-2,
including HIV-2 Group A), gonnorhea, syphilis, human papilloma virus (PPV), streptococcus
(including streptococcus B), treponema pallidum, and other sexually transmitted diseases.
    [00220]      Further targets include drug-resistant micro-organisms, including those
exhibiting multi-drug resistance. Drug resistance (also termed antibiotic resistance) is found
where a population (or subpopulation) of a micro-organism, such as a bacterium, acquires or
exhibits resistance to one or more drugs (e.g., one or more antibiotic). Micro-organisms that
are resistant to treatment by multiple drugs are termed to be "multi-drug resistant" and those
micro-organisms are termed to have or to exhibit "multi-drug resistance"; either term may be
abbreviated by "MDR". Resistance to one or more drugs is observed, or exhibited, when a
population of micro-organisms survives (and typically continues to grow and multiply in
number) despite the presence of a drug, or (in the case of MDR) despite the presence of
multiple drugs. Drug-resistant organisms of particular interest include, but are not limited to,
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus
(VISA ), vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA), bacteria (e.g., Enterobacteriaceae) having
extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL), Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE), and
Multidrug-resistant A. bauniannii(MRAB). Drug-resistant target organisms, including MDR
target organisms, may be identified by nucleic acid markers, protein (or peptide) markers,
                                                Page 59

other markers, or combinations thereof, as well as by observing their growth in the presence
of drugs.
    [002211      Many antibiotic compounds include a      p-lactam ring (a ring of four carbons);
for example, penicillin is an antibiotic having a   p-lactam ring. Many bacteria have P
lactamase enzymes which can cleave a ft-lactam ring, and thus protect the bacteria against
such antibiotics. Enzymes that can cleave a    pj-lactam ring, which are often found in Gram
negative bacteria, include the TEM and ROB $-lactamase enzymes. Drug-resistant
                influenzae bacteria may have the blaTEM or blaROB resistance gene (typically
        "Iaeophius
blaTEM-i, although blaTEM-2 and blaROB-1 and others are also found); other drug
resistance markers found in disease-causing organisms include the KPC resistance gene
(found in Klebsiella pneumonia carbapeneinas (KPC)); mecA and mecC resistance genes
(responsible for resistance to j-lactam-containing antibiotics such as methicillin);
vancomycin resistance genes A and B (vanA and vanB) may be found in disease-causing
bacteria, such as, e.g., vancomycin resistant Enterococci; and others drug-resistance markers.
    100222]      Disease-causing organisms of interest include viruses of thefiloviridae family
of viruses (filo viruses), which includes Ebola viruses, Marburg viruses, and Cueva viruses.
Ebola viruses cause ebola virus disease (also known as Ebola hemorrhagic fever); Marburg
viruses also cause a hemorrhagic fever, the Marburg hemorrhagic fever; and Cueva viruses
such as lloviu virus (LLOV), may be endemic in France, Spain, or Portugal. Such viruses
may be detected and may be identified in a sample from nucleic acid markers specific to
these viruses, from protein (peptide) markers specific to these viruses, and from other
markers specific to these viruses.
    [00223]      Filo viruses typically cause hemorrhagic fevers and related disorders. These
and other diseases may be detected, and may be identified, by identifying nucleic acid
markers, peptide markers, and other markers, alone or in combination, as disclosed herein.
Filo viral diseases, other hemorrhagic fevers, and other diseases including many tropical
diseases, e.g. Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, malaria, typhoid, and other diseases,
have many detrimental effects, including hemorrhage and internal bleeding, and may cause
disruptions in electrolytes, may cause anemia, and may cause other symptoms and effects.
Integrated electrolyte assays (e.g., for sodium, potassium, and other electrolytes, including
sodium and potassium together, and including sodium and potassium together with other
electrolytes) may identify subjects suffering from electrolyte imbalances, and may thus
identify subjects suffering from a hemorrhagic fever, from anemia, or both. Assays for
hemoglobin, for iron, and other assays may identify subjects suffering from anemia, from a
                                                Page 60

hemorrhagic fever, or both. Anemia may be due to hemorrhage, parasitic infection (e.g.,
hookworm), both hemorrhage and parasitic infection, and other causes. Thus, in addition to
testing for nucleic acid, peptide, and other markers, these hemorrhagic and other diseases
may be detected, and may be identified, with integrated electrolyte measurements; with
hemoglobin measurements; with iron measurements; and with other general chemistry
assays, alone or in combination. In embodiments, integrated electrolyte measurements,
hemoglobin, iron, or other general chemistry assays may provide indications that a subject
suffers from anemia, a hemorrhagic fever such as Ebola, Marburg, or other disease such as
malaria or typhoid fever; such indication may be used to suggest further testing for markers
of such diseases. Thus, in embodiments, electrolyte testing including sodium and potassium,
or other general chemistry assays, may be performed simultaneously when testing for Ebola,
Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease (e.g., when testing for nucleic acid, peptide, or other
markers for such diseases).
     100224]     In embodiments, such indications derived from general chemistry test results
(e.g., from the results of integrated electrolyte measurements, hemoglobin, iron, or other
general chemistry assays) may automatically trigger reflex testing for one or more
hemorrhagic fever disease markers, or malaria, typhoid fever, or other disease marker, and
may automatically trigger reflex testing for combinations or for all of such markers. In
embodiments, a subject may be tested for other diseases and not (initially) for Ebola,
Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease (e.g., a patient that is weak, or feverish, may not
initially be tested for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease); based on the results of
integrated electrolyte measurements, hemoglobin, iron, or other general chemistry assays, a
reflex test for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease may be automatically performed,
or may be ordered by a health care professional. In embodiments, a patient or subject may not
wish to be tested for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease, or other disease of
concern (e.g., a patient may fear quarantine, or may fear that the cost of the test might be
prohibitive) and thus may not initially be tested for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic
disease; based on the results of integrated electrolyte measurements, hemoglobin, iron, or
other general chemistry assays, a reflex test for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease
may be automatically performed, or may be ordered by a health care professional. In
embodiments, such a reflex test for Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease, or other
disease of concern may be performed if the patient is first tested for one or more infectious
disease other than Ebola, Marburg, or other hemorrhagic disease, and the initial test panel
                                                Page 61

does not show infection of any known disease (and thus further testing would be required in
order to identify other possible sources of the subject's disease or condition).
    [00225       Methods, devices, and systems disclosed herein may be used to detect, and
may be used to identify, disease-causing organisms in normal or healthy individuals and
populations. Methods, devices, and systems disclosed herein may be used to detect, andi may
be used to identify, benign organisms in normal or healthy individuals and populations. Such
disease-causing organisms and such benign organisms may be detected, and may be
identified, in samples obtained front a normal individual, e.g., once or on an on-going basis,
in order to determine a baseline or normal level for that individual when that individual is
healthy. Such detection of disease-causing and benign organisms may include detection of
nucleic acid markers; detection of protein (peptide) markers, including detection of
antibodies; detection of markers of inflammation (including both peptide and non-peptide
markers); and detection of other markers. Such identification of disease-causing and benign
organisms may include identification of nucleic acid markers; identification of protein
(peptide) markers, including identification of antibodies; identification of markers of
inflammation (including both peptide and non-peptide markers); and identification of other
markers. Detection and identification of markers may include quantitative detection and
identification of such markers. Differences between the results from a sample and normal or
baseline results may be used to improve the likelihood of detecting whether or not an
individual suffers from a disease or condition. For example, determination of a baseline or
normal level for an individual aids in detecting, in identifying, and in diagnosing disease
conditions, or progression towards a disease or a detrimental condition, by comparison of
results from later-obtained samples to baseline or normal levels determined when the
individual as healthy. Such comparisons between an individual subject's results and baseline
or normal levels found in prior results obtained from the individual when healthy can be used
to determine if it is likely that the individual subject suffers from art infection. Such
comparisons may include consideration of symptoms, if any, of that individual subject in
comparison to symptoms (or the lack thereof) previously found for that individual when
healthy.
    [002261      Such disease-causing organisms and such benign organisms may be may be
detected, and may be identified, in samples obtained from multiple individuals, e.g., once or
on an on-going basis, in order to determine a baseline or normal level found in a normal
(healthy) population. Such detection of disease-causing and benign organisms may include
detection of nucleic acid markers; detection of protein (peptide) markers, including detection
                                                 Page 62

of antibodies; detection of markers of inflammation (including both peptide and non-peptide
markers); and detection of other markers. Such identification of disease-causing and benign
organisms may include identification of nucleic acid markers: identification of protein
(peptide) markers, including identification of antibodies identification of markers of
inflammation (including both peptide and non-pep tide markers); and identification of other
markers. Detection and identification of markers may include quantitative detection and
identification of such marker. Differences between the results obtained from a sample from
an individual subject and normal or baseline results obtained from a population of
comparable healthy individuals may be used to improve the likelihood of detecting whether
or not an individual subject suffers from a disease or condition. For example, determination
of a baseline or normal level for an individual subject aids in detecting, in identifying, and in
diagnosing disease conditions, or progression towards a disease or a detrimental condition, by
comparison of results for the individual subject to baseline or normal levels found in a
population of comparable healthy individuals. Such comparisons between an individual
subject's results and baseline or normal levels found in a healthy population can be used to
determine if it is likely that the individual subject suffers from an infection. Such
comparisons may include consideration of symptoms, if any, of that individual subject in
comparison to symptoms (or the lack thereof) found in a healthy population.
     [00227]    In embodiments, such a system is a point-of-service system (POS system),
wherein a POS system is located at a point of service location. In embodiments, a POS
system is located at a point of service location and is configured to accept a clinical sample
obtained from a subject at the POS location. In embodiments, a POS system is located at a
point of service location and is configured to accept a clinical sample obtained from a subject
at the POS location, and is further configured to analyze the clinical sample at the POS
location. In embodiments, the clinical sample is a small volume clinical sample. In
embodiments, the clinical sample is analyzed in a short period of time. In embodiments, the
short period of time is determined with respect to the time at which sample analysis began. In
embodiments, the short period of time is determined with respect to the time at which the
sample was inserted into a device for the analysis of the sample. In embodiments, the short
period of time is determined with respect to the time at which the sample was obtained from
the subject.
     [002281    Applicants disclose herein methods for detecting the presence of a target
disease-causing agent, or marker indicative of the presence of a target disease-causing agent,
in a single small-volume sample or aliquot thereof In embodiments, methods for detecting
                                                 Page 63

the presence of a plurality of target disease-causing agents, or markers indicative thereof,
from a single sample, or aliquot thereof, within a short period of time are disclosed. In
embodiments, the plurality of target disease-causing agents, or markers indicative thereof,
termed "targets", comprises at least 5 targets, or at least 10 targets, or at least 15 targets, or at
least 20 targets, or at least 25 targets, or at least 30 targets, or at least 35 targets, or at least 40
targets, or at least 45 targets, or at least 50 targets, or at least 55 targets, or at least 60 targets,
or at least 65 targets, or more. In embodiments, a short period of time is a period of time that
is five hours or less, or is four hours or less, or is three hours or less, or is two hours or less,
or is one hour or less, or is 50 minutes or less, or is 40 minutes or less, or is 30 minutes or
less, or is 20 minutes or less, or is 10 minutes or less, or is 5 minutes or less.
     [002291     Applicants disclose herein methods for detecting the presence of a target flu
virus molecule in a sample are disclosed herein, wherein the presence of a plurality of
possible target flu viruses are tested from a single sample within a short period of time. In
embodiments, the plurality of possible target flu viruses comprise at least 5 possible target flu
viruses, or at least 10 possible target flu viruses, or at least 15 possible target flu viruses, or at
least 20 possible target flu viruses, or at least 25 possible target flu viruses, or at least 30
possible target flu viruses, or at least 35 possible target flu viruses, or at least 40 possible
target flu viruses, or at least 45 possible target flu viruses, or at least 50 possible target flu
viruses, or at least 55 possible target flu viruses, or at least 60 possible target flu viruses, or at
least 64 possible target flu viruses, or at least 65 possible target flu viruses, or more.
     [00230]     Applicants further disclose herein methods for detecting the presence of a
plurality of target molecules in a single sample within a short period of time, wherein the
plurality of target molecules comprises nucleic acid molecules, or protein molecules, or
saccharides, or cytokines, or steroids, or histamine, or other molecules. Applicants further
disclose herein methods for detecting the presence of a plurality of target molecules in a
single sample within a short period of time, wherein the plurality of target molecules
comprises nucleic acid molecules and protein molecules. Applicants further disclose herein
methods for detecting the presence of a plurality of target molecules in a single sample within
a short period of time, wherein the plurality of target molecules comprises nucleic acid
molecules, protein molecules, markers of inflammation, and cytokines. Applicants further
disclose herein methods for detecting the presence of a plurality of target molecules in a
single sample within a short period of time, wherein the plurality of target molecules
comprises nucleic acid molecules, protein molecules, and saccharides.
                                                   Page 64

    [00231]      Applicants disclose herein devices for use in systems and methods as
disclosed herein, Such devices include, for example, devices comprising a holder configured
to accept and retain a clinical sample (e.g., a clinical sample contained within a sample
collection device); a reagent vessel or a plurality of reagent vessels; and a reaction vessel, or
a plurality of reaction vessels. In embodiments, such devices may further configured to
accept and retain one or more of a cytometry cuvette or cuvettes; a waste container or
containers; a tip, or tips, configured to aspirate or release fluid; and other tools.
    [002321      Applicants further disclose herein assays for the detection of one or more of a
plurality of target molecules in a single sample within a short period of time, wherein the
plurality of target molecules comprises one or more of nucleic acid molecules, protein
molecules, saccharides, in arkers of inflamn action, and cytokines. In embodiments, such
assays may be configured for use with systems and devices as disclosed herein.
    [00233]      Accordingly, Applicants disclose herein systems, devices, and methods,
including the following exemplary integrated systems.
    1002341       ) An integrated system for providing testing and diagnosis of a subject
suspected of suffering from a disease, said system comprising a means for obtaining a sample
(which may include, e.g., a sample collection device comprising a lancet, a syringe, a needle
and tube, or other blood collection device; or a nasal swab, a mouth swab (e.g., a cheek
swab), a throat swab, a vaginal swab, or other swab, and fluid in which to immerse the swab
following contacting the swab with a subject); a cartridge comprising reagents for assays for
the disease; a device for running a plurality of assays for detecting a plurality of diseases; a
device/ means for displaying/communicating the detection of one or more of said diseases.
Such integrated systems may be configured for uses wherein the sample is a small volume
sample; for uses wherein detection is performed in a short period of tim e; or for uses both
wherein the sample is a small volume sample and wherein detection is performed in a short
period of time.
    [00235]      2) An integrated system for providing testing and diagnosis of a subject
suspected of suffering from a respiratory disorder, said system comprising a means for
obtaining a sample (which may include, e.g., a nasal swab, a throat swab, a mouth swab (e.g.,
a cheek swab), a vaginal swab, or other swab, and fluid in which to immerse the swab
following contacting the swab with a subject); a cartridge comprising reagents for assays for
respiratory disorders; a device for running a plurality of assays for detecting a plurality of
respiratory disorders; a device! means for displaying/communicating the detection of one or
more of said respiratory disorders. Such integrated systems may be configured for uses
                                                 Page 65

wherein the sample is a small volume sample; for uses wherein detection is performed in a
short period of time; or for uses both wherein the sample is a small volume sample and
wherein detection is performed in a short period of time.
    [002361     3) An integrated system for providing testing, diagnosis, and prescription of a
subject suspected of suffering from a respiratory disorder, said system comprising a means
for obtaining a sample (which may include, e.g., a nasal swab, a throat swab, a inouth swab
(e.g., a cheek swab), a vaginal swab, or other swab, and fluid in which to immerse the swab
following contacting the swab with a subject); a cartridge conmprising reagents for assays for
respiratory disorders; a device for running a plurality of assays for detecting a plurality of
respiratory disorders; a device/ means for displaying/communicating the detection of one or
more of said respiratory disorders; and means for providing a prescription for the treatment of
a respiratory disorder detected in said sample. Such integrated systems may be configured for
uses wherein the sample is a small volume sample; for uses wherein detection is performed in
a short period of time: or for uses both wherein the sample is a small volume sample and
wherein detection is performed in a short period of time.
    [00237]     4) An integrated system for providing testing, diagnosis, prescription, and
treatment of a subject suspected of suffering from a respiratory disorder, said system
comprising a means for obtaining a sample (which may include, e.g., a nasal swab, a throat
swab, a mouth swab (e.g., a cheek swab), a vaginal swab, or other swab, and fluid in which to
immerse the swab following contacting the swab with a subject); a cartridge comprising
reagents for assays for respiratory disorders; a device for running a plurality of assays for
detecting a plurality of respiratory disorders; a device/ means for displaying/comnunicating
the detection of one or more of said respiratory disorders; means for providing a prescription
for the treatment of a respiratory disorder detected in said sample; and means for
providing/sellinp/delivering a treatment (drug/pillshot) to said subject pursuant to said
prescription. Such integrated systems may be configured for uses wherein the sample is a
small volume sample; for uses wherein detection is performed in a short period of time; or for
uses both wherein the sample is a small volume sample and wherein detection is performed in
a short period of time.
    [00238]     Methods of detecting the presence of a target flu virus molecule in a sample
are disclosed herein, wherein the presence of a plurality of possible target flu viruses are
tested from a single sample within a short period of time. In embodiments, the plurality of
possible target flu viruses comprise at least 5 possible target flu viruses, or at least 10
possible target flu viruses, or at least 15 possible target flu viruses, or at least 20 possible
                                                 Page 66

target flu viruses, or at least 25 possible target flu viruses, or at least 30 possible target flu
viruses, or at least 35 possible target flu viruses, or at least 40 possible target flu viruses, or at
least 45 possible target flu viruses, or at least 50 possible target flu viruses, or at least 55
possible target flu viruses, or at least 60 possible target flu viruses, or at least 64 possible
target flu viruses, or at least 65 possible target flu viruses, or more. In embodiments, a short
period of time is a period of time that is five hours or less, or is four hours or less, or is three
hours or less, or is two hours or less, or is one hour or less, or is 50 minutes or less, or is 40
minutes or less, or is 30 minutes or less, or is 20 minutes or less, or is 10 minutes or less, or is
5 minutes or less.
     [002391     Methods of detecting the presence of a respiratory disease-causing agent in a
subject suspected of having a respiratory disorder, wherein the presence of a plurality of
possible respiratory disease-causing agents are tested from a single sample using both nucleic
acid testing and protein testing, wherein nucleic acid testing comprises detection of the
presence of target nucleic acid sequences, and wherein protein testing comprises detection of
the presence of target proteins having target amino acid sequences. In embodiments, target
nucleic acid sequences may comprise sequences having at least 8 nucleotides, or at least 10
nucleotides, or at least 15 nucleotides, or at least 20 nucleotides, or at least 30 nucleotides, or
at least 40 nucleotides, or at least 50 nucleotides, or more, that are identical, or closely
similar, to target nucleotide sequences. In embodiments, target amino acid sequences may
comprise sequences having at least 8 amino acids, or at least 10 amino acids, or at least 15
amino acids, or at least 20 amino acids, or at least 30 amino acids, or at least 40 amino acids,
or at least 50 amino acids, or more, that are identical, or closely similar, to target amino acids
sequences.
     [002401     In embodiments, a respiratory disease-causing agent is detected if more than a
minimum level of such respiratory disease-causing agents is detected in a small-volume
sample obtained from a subject, wherein the small-volume sample is tested for the presence
of a plurality of respiratory disease--causing agents. In embodiments, the small-volume
sample is 150 pL or less in volume, or is 75 pL or less in volume, or is 50 pL or less in
volume, or is 25 pL or less in volume, or is 15 pL or less in volume, or is 10 pL or less in
volume, or is 5 pL or less in volume.
     [002411     Embodiments of methods disclosed herein include methods in which a
disease-causing agent is detected if more than a ininium level of such disease-causing
agents is detected in a small-volume sample obtained from a subject. For example, such
methods include methods wherein a small-volume sample is tested for the presence of a
                                                 Page 67

plurality of disease-causing agents. In embodiments of such methods, that minimum level
may be set at a level that is determined by the condition of the subject. The minimum level
may be set at a higher level for subjects who exhibit symptoms of active infection. The
minimum level may be set at a lower level for subjects who are receiving treatment for an
infection at the time the sample was obtained. The minimum level may be set at a lower level
for subjects who have received treatment for an infection prior to the time the sample was
obtained, e.g., who have recently received treatment for an infection prior to the time the
sample was obtained.
    [00242]     In embodiments, the sample may be diluted prior to testing for the presence of
a plurality of disease-causing agents. In embodiments, such dilution of a sample is greater for
subjects who have a condition which indicates they may have higher levels of disease
causing agents than subject who do not have that condition, or than subjects who have a
different condition.
    100243]     Embodiments of methods disclosed herein include methods in which a
respiratory disease-causing agent is detected if more than a minimum level of such
respiratory disease-causing agents is detected in a small-volume sample obtained from a
subject. For example, such methods include methods wherein a small-volume sample is
tested for the presence of a plurality of respiratory disease-causing agents. In embodiments of
such methods, that minimum level may be set at a level that is determined by the condition of
the subject. The minitnum level may be set at a higher level for subjects who exhibit
symptoms of active infection. The minimum level may be set at a lower level for subjects
who are receiving treatment for an infection at the time the sample was obtained. The
minimum level may be set at a lower level for subjects who have received treatment for an
infection prior to the time the sample was obtained, e.g., who have recently received
treatment for an infection prior to the time the sample was obtained.
    [00244]     In embodiments, the sample mnay be diluted prior to testing for the presence of
a plurality of disease-causing agents, such as respiratory disease-causing agents. In
embodiments, such dilution of a sample is greater for subjects who have a condition which
indicates they may have higher levels of disease-causing agents, such as respiratory disease
causing agents, than subject who do not have that condition, or than subjects who have a
different condition.
    [002451     For example, conditions which indicate that a subject may have higher levels
of disease-causing agents, such as respiratory disease-causing agents, include subjects with
an active infection; subjects who have a cough, including a persistent cough; subjects who
                                                Page 68

have a fever; subjects who report chills; subjects who report fatigue; subjects who report a
headache; subjects who have sweats; and subjects who have or report other symptoms
indicative of an active infection.
     [002461      For example, conditions which indicate that a subject may not have higher
levels of disease-causing agents, such as respiratory disease-causing agents, include subjects
currently receiving treatment for infection: sub jects who recently received treatment for
infection; subjects currently receiving, or who recently received treatment for, a cough,
including a persistent cough; a fever; chills; fatioue; headache; sweats; or other symptoms or
indication of an infection.
     [002471      In embodiments of methods in which a disease-causing agents, such as a
respiratory disease-causing agent, is detected if more than a minimum level of such disease
causing agent (e.g., a respiratory disease-causing agent) is detected in a small-volume sample
obtained from a subject, wherein the sinall-volume sample is tested for the presence of a
plurality of disease-causing agents, such as respiratory disease-causing agents, the minimum
level is set at a higher level for subjects who have not been recently diagnosed with a disease,
such as a respiratory disease, than the minimum level set for subjects who have been recently
diagnosed with a disease (such as a respiratory disease). In embodiments, the sample may be
diluted prior to testing for the presence of said plurality of disease-causing agents, such as
respiratory disease-causing agents. In embodiments, such dilution of a sample is greater for
subjects who have not been recently diagnosed with a disease, such as a respiratory disease,
than the dilution of samples obtained from subjects who have been recently diagnosed with a
disease, such as a respiratory disease.
     [00248]      In embodiments, the sample may be further tested for the presence of
indicators of inflammation. For example, the sample may be further tested for the presence of
higher than normal levels of glucocorticoids such as cortisol (e.g., in the blood, or in saliva,
or tears, or other bodily fluid or sample obtained by a swab). For example, the sample may be
further tested for the presence of higher than normal levels of histamine (e.g., in the blood, or
in saliva, or tears, or other bodily fluid or sample obtained by a swab). Further indicators of
inflanmation include, without limitation, increased levels of prostagl andins, increased levels
of inflammatory cytokines (including, e.g., tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin
 1 (IL-1), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interleukin-18 (IL-18), and interferon
gamnia (IF-y)), bradykinin, complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive
protein, cry throcyte sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, morphological changes
in blood and other cells, and other molecular and cellular markers indicative of inflammation.
                                                 Page 69

In addition, a subject may be examined, or asked to self-report, symptoms of inflammation,
such as, e.g., swelling, redness, pain, or sensation of heat of an affected area or tissue.
    [002491     In embodiments, the sample may be further tested for the presence of a
cytokine or of a plurality of cytokines. In embodiments, the sample may be further tested for
the level of a cytokine or of a plurality of cytokines. In embodiments, the target cytokine is
selected from a lymphokine, a chemokine, an interleukin, and an interferon. In embodiments,
the target cytokines are selected from lymphokines, chemokines, inmterleukins, and
interferons. In embodiments, the cytokine may be an inflammatory cytokine. In
embodiments, the cytokine may be an anti-inflammatory cytokine. In embodiments, a target
cytokine may be a an inmterleukin (IL) selected from IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7,
IL-, IL-9, IL-l0, IL- 11, IL-12, IL-13, IL-14, IL-15, IL-16, IL-17, IL-18, IL-19, IL-20, IL
21, and other interleukins. In embodiments, a target cytokine may be a chemokine selected
from an a chemokine (also termed a CXC chemokine), a r-chemokine (also termed a CC-
chemokine), a y-chemokine (also termed a C-chemokine), and a d-chemokine (also termed a
CX3C-chemokine). In embodiments, a target cytokine may be a member of the tumor
necrosis factor (TNF) family.
    [002501     In embodiments, the same sample may be tested for disease-causing agents
and for cytokines. In embodiments, the same sample may be tested for respiratory disease
causing agents and for cytokines.
    [00251]     In embodiments, the sample may be further tested for the presence of/
antibodies to a disease-causing agent. In embodiments, the same sample may be tested for a
plurality of disease-causing agents, and for antibodies to a plurality of disease-causing agents.
    [00252]     In embodiments, the sample may be further tested for the presence of
antibodies to a respiratory disease-causing agent. In embodiments, the same sample may be
tested for a plurality of respiratory disease-causing agents and for antibodies to a plurality of
respiratory disease-causing agents.
    [00253]     Methods of detecting the presence of a target flu virus molecule in a sample
are disclosed herein, wherein the presence of a plurality of possible target flu viruses are
tested from a single sample using both nucleic acid testing and protein testing, wherein
nucleic acid testing comprises detection of the presence of target nucleic acid sequences, and
wherein protein testing comprises detection of the presence of target proteins having target
amino acid sequences, In embodiments, target nucleic acid sequences may comprise
sequences having at least 8 nucleotides, or at least 10 nucleotides, or at least 15 nucleotides,
or at least 20 nucleotides, or at least 30 nucleotides, or at least 40 nucleotides, or at least 50
                                                Page 70

nucleotides, or more, that are identical, or closely similar, to target nucleotide sequences. In
embodiments, target amino acid sequences may comprise sequences having at least 8 amino
acids, or at least 10 amino acids, or at least 15 amino acids, or at least 20 amino acids, or at
least 30 amino acids, or at least 40 amino acids, or at least 50 amino acids, or more, that are
identical, or closely similar, to target anino acids sequences.
    [00254]      In embodiments, the plurality of possible target flu viruses comprise at least 5
possible target flu viruses, or at least 10 possible target flu viruses, or at least 15 possible
target flu viruses, or at least 20 possible target flu viruses, or at least 25 possible target flu
viruses, or at least 30 possible target flu viruses, or at least 35 possible target flu viruses, or at
least 40 possible target flu viruses, or at least 45 possible target flu viruses, or at least 50
possible target flu viruses, or at least 55 possible target flu viruses, or at least 60 possible
target flu viruses, or at least 64 possible target flu viruses, or at least 65 possible target flu
viruses, or more.
    [00255]      The assays and methods disclosed herein may be performed on a device, or on
a system, for processing a sample. Such a sample may be a small-volume clinical sample.
The assays and methods disclosed herein can be readily incorporated into and used in device
for processing a sample, or a system for processing a sample, which may be an automated
assay device, or may be an automated assay system. Such a device, and such a system, may
be useful for the practice of the methods disclosed herein. For example, a device may be
useful for receiving a sample. A device may be useful for preparing, or for processing a
sample. A device may be useful for performing an assay on a sample. A device may be useful
for obtaining data from a sample. A device may be useful for transmitting data obtained from
a sample. A device may be useful for disposing of a sample following processing or assaying
of a sample.
    [00256]      The assays and methods disclosed herein can be readily incorporated into and
used in an automated assay device, and in an automated assay system. For example, systems
as disclosed herein may include a communication assembly for transmitting or receiving a
protocol based on the analyte to be detected (e.g., a particular disease-causing agent or
marker indicative of a particular disease-causing agent) or based on other analytes to be
detected by the device or system. In embodiments, an assay protocol may be changed based
on optimal scheduling of a plurality of assays to be performed by a device, or may be
changed based on results previously obtained from a sample from a subject, or based on
results previously obtained front a different sample front the subject. In embodiments, a
communication assembly may comprise a channel for communicating information from said
                                                 Page 71

device to a computer, said wherein said channel is selected from a computer network, a
telephone network, a metal communication link, an optical communication link, and a
wireless communication link. In embodiments, systems as disclosed herein may transmit
signals to a central location, or to an end user, and may include a communication assembly
for transmitting such signals. Systems as disclosed herein may be configured for updating a
protocol as needed or on a regular basis.
    100257]       A device may be part of a system, a component of which may be a sample
processing device. A device may be a sample processing device. A sample processing device
may be configured to facilitate collection of a sample, prepare a sample for a clinical test, or
effect a chemical reaction with one or more reagents or other chemical or physical
processing, as disclosed herein. A sample processing device may be configured to obtain data
from a sample. A sample processing device may be configured to transmit data obtained from
a sample. A sample processing device may be configured to analyze data from a sample. A
sample processing device may be configured to communicate with another device, or a
laboratory, or an individual affiliated with a laboratory, to analyze data obtained from a
sample.
    [002581      A sample processing device may be configured to be placed in or on a subject.
A sample processing device may be configured to accept a sample from a subject, either
directly or indirectly. A sample may be, for example, a blood sample (e.g., a sample obtained
from a fingerstick, or from venipuncture, or an arterial blood sample), a urine sample, a
biopsy sample, a tissue slice, stool sample, or other clinical sample; a water sample, a soil
sample, a food sample, an air sample; or other sample. A blood sample may comprise, e.g.,
whole blood, plasma, or serum. A sample processing device may receive a sample from the
subject through a housing of the device. The sample collection may occur at a sample
collection site, or elsewhere. The sample may be provided to the device at a sample
collection site.
    100259]      In some embodiments, a sample processing device may be configured to
accept or hold a cartridge. In some embodiments, a sample processing device may comprise a
cartridge. The cartridge may be removable from the sample processing device. In some
embodiments, a sample may be provided to the cartridge of the sample processing device.
Alternatively, a sample may be provided to another portion of a sample processing device.
The cartridge and/or device may comprise a sample collection unit that may be configured to
accept a sample.
                                                Page 72

     [00260]     A cartridge may include a sample, and may include reagents for use in
processing or testing a sample, disposables for use in processing or testing a sample, or other
materials. Following placement of a cartridge on, or insertion of a cartridge into, a sample
processing device, one or more components of the cartridge may be brought into fluid
communication with other components of the sample processing device. For example, if a
sample is collected at a cartridge, the sample may be transferred to other portions of the
sample processing device. Similarly, if one or more reagents are provided on a cartridge, the
reagents may be transferred to other portions of the sample processing device, or other
components of the sample processing device may be brought to the reagents. I some
embodiments, the reagents or components of a cartridge may remain on-board the cartridge.
In some embodiments, no fluidics are included that require tubing or that require maintenance
(e.g., manual or automated maintenance).
     100261]     A sample or reagent may be transferred to a device, such as a sample
processing device. A sample or reagent may be transferred within a device. Such transfer of
sample or reagent may be accomplished without providing a continuous fluid pathway from
cartridge to device. Such transfer of sample or reagent may be accomplished without
providing a continuous fluid pathway within a device. In embodiments, such transfer of
sample or reagent may be accomplished by a sample handling system (e.g., a pipette); for
example, a sample, reagent, or aliquot thereof may be aspirated into an open-tipped transfer
component, such as a pipette tip, which may be operably connected to a sample handling
system which transfers the tip, with the sample, reagent, or aliquot thereof contained within
the tip, to a location on or within the sample processing device. The sample, reagent, or
aliquot thereof can be deposited at a location on or within the sample processing device.
Sample and reagent, or multiple reagents, may be mixed using a sample handling system in a
similar manner. One or more components of the cartridge may be transferred in an automated
fashion to other portions of the sample processing device, and vice versa.
     100262]     A device, such as a sample processing device, may have a fluid handling
system. A fluid handling system may perform, or may aid in performing, transport, dilution,
extraction, aliquotting, mixing, and other actions with a fluid, such as a sample. In some
embodiments, a fluid handling system may be contained within a device housing. A fluid
handling system may permit the collection, delivery, processing and/or transport of a fluid,
dissolution of dry reagents, mixing of liquid and/or dry reagents with a liquid, as well as
collection, delivery, processing and/or transport of non-fluidic components, samples, or
                                               Page 73

materials. The fluid may be a sample, a reagent, diluent, wash, dye, or any other fluid that
may be used by the device, and may include, but not limited to, homogenous fluids, different
liquids, emulsions, suspensions, and other fluids. A fluid handling system, including without
limitation a pipette, may also be used to transport vessels (with or without fluid contained
therein) around the device. The fluid handling system may dispense or aspirate a fluid. The
sample may include one or more particulate or solid matter floating within a fluid.
    [00263]     In embodiments, a fluid handling system may comprise a pipette, pipette tip,
syringe, capillary, or other component. The fluid handling system may have portion with an
interior surface and an exterior surface and an open end. The fluid handling system may
comprise a pipette, which may include a pipette body and a pipette nozzle, and may comprise
a pipette tip. A pipette tip may or may not be removable from a pipette nozzle. In
embodiments, a fluid handling system may use a pipette mated with a pipette tip; a pipette tip
may be disposable. A tip may form a fluid-tight seal when mated with a pipette. A pipette tip
may be used once, twice, or more times. In embodiments, a fluid handling system may use a
pipette or similar device, with or without a pipette tip, to aspirate, dispense, mix, transport, or
otherwise handle the fluid. The fluid may be dispensed from the fluid handling system when
desired. The fluid may be contained within a pipette tip prior to being dispensed, e.g., from
an orifice in the pipette tip. In embodiments, or instances during use, all of the fluid may be
dispensed; in other embodiments, or instances during use, a portion of the fluid within a tip
may be dispensed. A pipette may selectively aspirate a fluid. 'The pipette may aspirate a
selected amount of fluid. The pipette may be capable of actuating stirring mechanisms to mix
the fluid within the tip or within a vessel. The pipette may incorporate tips or vessels creating
continuous flow loops for mixing, including of materials or reagents that are in non-liquid
form. A pipette tip may also facilitate mixture by metered delivery of multiple fluids
simultaneously or in sequence, such as in 2-part substrate reactions.
    100264]     The fluid handling system may include one or more fluidically isolated or
hydraulically independent units. For example, the fluid handling system may include one,
two, or more pipette tips. The pipette tips may be configured to accept and confine a fluid.
The tips may be fluidically isolated from or hydraulically independent of one another. The
fluid contained within each tip may be fluidically isolated or hydraulically independent from
one fluids in other tips and from other fluids within the device. The fluidically isolated or
hydraulically independent units may be movable relative to other portions of the device
andior one another. The fluidically isolated or hydraulically independent units may be
                                                Page 74

individually movable. A fluid handling system may comprise one or more base or support. A
base or support may support one or more pipette or pipette units. A base or support may
connect one or more pipettes of the fluid handling system to one another.
    [00265]      A sample processing device may be configured to perform processing steps or
actions on a sample obtained from a subject. Sample processing may include sample
preparation, including, e.g., sample dilution, division of a sample into aliquots, extraction,
contact with a reagent, filtration, separation, centrifugation, or other preparatory or
processing action or step. A sample processing device may be configured to perform one or
more sample preparation action or step on the sample. Optionally, a sample may be prepared
for a chemical reaction and/or physical processing step. A sample preparation action or step
may include one or more of the following: centrifugation, separation, filtration, dilution,
enriching, purification, precipitation, incubation, pipetting, transport, chromatography, cell
lysis, cytonmetry, pulverization, grinding, activation, ultrasonication, micro column
processing, processing with magnetic beads, processing with nanoparticles, or other sample
preparation action or steps. For example, sample preparation may include one or more step
to separate blood into serum and/or particulate fractions, or to separate any other sample into
various components. Sample preparation may include one or more step to dilute and/or
concentrate a sample, such as a blood sample, or other clinical samples. Sample preparation
may include adding an anti-coagulanit or other ingredient to a sample. Sample preparation
may also include purification of a sample. In embodiments, all sample processing,
preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed by a single device. In embodiments, all
sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a
single device. In embodiments, most sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps
are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device.
In embodiments, many sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are
performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps may be performed by
more than one device.
    [00266]     A sample processing device may be configured to run one or more assay on a
sample, and to obtain data from the sample. An assay may include one or more physical or
chemical treatments, and may include running one or more chemical or physical reactions. A
sample processing device may be configured to perform one, two or more assays on a small
sample of bodily fluid. One or more chemical reaction may take place on a sample having a
                                                Page 75

volume, as described elsewhere herein. For example one or more chemical reaction may take
place in a pill having less than femitoliter volumes. In an instance, the sample collection unit
is configured to receive a volume of the bodily fluid sample equivalent to a single drop or
less of blood or interstitial fluid. In embodiments, the volume of a sample may be a small
volume, where a small volume may be a volume that is less than about 1000 pL, or less than
about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than about 150 pL, or less than about 100
pL, or less than about 75 Ld, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 40 gL, or less than
about 20 pL, or less than about 10 pL, or other small volume. In embodiments, all sample
assay actions or steps are performed on a single sample. In embodiments, all sample assay
actions or steps are performed by a single device. In embodiments, all sample assay actions
or steps are performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, most sample
assay actions or steps are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a
housing of a single device. In embodiments, many sample assay actions or steps are
performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps may be performed by
more than one device.
    [002671      A sample processing device may be configured to perform a plurality of
assays on a sample. In embodiments, a sample processing device may be configured to
perform a plurality of assays on a single sample. In embodiments, a sample processing device
may be configured to perform a plurality of assays on a single sample, where the sample is a
small sample. For example, a small sample may have a sample volume that is a small volume
of less than about 1000 pL, or less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than
about 150 IL, or less than about 100 IL, or less than about 75 ul, or less than about 50 pL,
or less than about 40 pil., or less than about 20 L, or less than about 10 IL, or other small
volume. A sample processing device may be capable of performing multiplexed assays otn a
single sample. A plurality of assays may be run simultaneously; may be run sequentially; or
sonic assays may be run simultaneously while others are run sequentially. One or more
control assays and/or calibrators (e.g., including a configuration with a control of a calibrator
for the assay/tests) can also be incorporated into the device; control assays and assay on
calibrators may be performed simultaneously with assays performed on a sample, or may be
performed before or after assays performed on a sample, or any combination thereof. In
embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single device. In
embodiments, all of a plurality of assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a
                                                Page 76

single device. In embodiments, most sample assay actions or steps, of a plurality of assays,
are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device.
In embodiments, many sample assay actions or steps, of a plurality of assays, are performed
by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps may be performed by
more than one device.
    [00268]     In embodiments, all of a plurality of assays may be performed in a short time
period. In embodiments, such a short time period comprises less than about three hours, or
less than about two hours, or less than about one hour, or less than about 40 minutes, or less
than about 30 minutes, or less than about 25 minutes, or less than about 20 minutes, or less
than about 15 minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or less than about 5 minutes, or less
than about 4 minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less than about 2 minutes. or less than
about 1 minute, or other short time period.
    [002691     A sample processing device may be configured to detect one or more signals
relating to the sample. A sample processing device may be configured to identify one or more
properties of the sample. For instance, the sample processing device may be configured to
detect the presence or concentration of one analyze or a plurality of analytes or a disease
condition in the sample (e.g., in or through a bodily fluid, secretion, tissue, or other sample).
Alternatively, the sample processing device may be configured to detect a signal or signals
that may be analyzed to detect the presence or concentration of one or more analyses (which
may be indicative of a disease condition) or a disease condition in the sample. The signals
may be analyzed on board the device, or at another location. Running a clinical test may or
may not include any analysis or comparison of data collected.
    [00270]     A chemical reaction or other processing step may be performed, with or
without the sample. Examples of steps, tests, or assays that may be prepared or run by the
device may include, but are not limited to inmmunoassay, nucleic acid assay, receptor-based
assay, cytometric assay, colorimetric assay, enzymatic assay, electrophoretic assay,
electrochemical assay, spectroscopic assay, chromatographic assay, microscopic assay,
topographic assay, calorimetric assay, turbidmetric assay, agglutination assay, radioisotope
assay. viscometric assay, coagulation assay, clotting time assay, protein synthesis assay,
histological assay, culture assay, osmolarity assay, and/or other types of assays,
centrifugation, separation, filtration, dilution, enriching, purification, precipitation,
pulverization, incubation, pipetting, transport, cell lysis, or other sample preparation action or
                                                 Page 77

steps, or combinations thereof. Steps, tests, or assays that may be prepared or run by the
device may include imaging, including microscopy, cytometry, and other techniques
preparing or utilizing images. Steps, tests, or assays that may be prepared or run by the device
may further include an assessment of histology, morphology, kinematics, dynamics, and/or
state of a sample, which may include such assessment for cells.
    100271]      A device may be capable of performing all on-board steps (e.g., steps or
actions performed by a single device) in a short amount of time. A device mnay be capable of
performing all on-board steps on a single sample in a short amount of time. For example,
from sample collection from a subject to transmitting data and/or to analysis may take about
3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, 1 hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40
minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less,
5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less.
The amount of time from accepting a sample within the device to transmitting data and/or to
analysis from the device regarding such a sample may depend on the type or number of steps,
tests, or assays performed on the sample. The amount of time from accepting a sample within
the device to transmitting data and/or to analysis from the device regarding such a sample
may take about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, I hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes
or less, 40 minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10
minutes or less, 5 minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or I
minute or less.
    [002721      A device may be configured to prepare a sample for disposal, or to dispose of
a sample, such as a clinical sample, following processing or assaying of a sample.
    [002731      In embodiments, a sample processing device may be configured to transmit
data obtained from a sample. In embodiments, a sample processing device may be configured
to communicate over a network. A sample processing device may include a communication
module that may interface with the network. A sample processing device may be connected
to the network via a wired connection or wirelessly. The network may be a local area
network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN) such as the Internet. In some embodiments,
the network may be a personal area network. The network may include the cloud. The
sample processing device may be connected to the network without requiring an intermediary
device, or an intermediary device may be required to connect a sample processing device to a
network. A sample processing device may communicate over a network with another device,
which may be any type of networked device, including but not limited to a personal
                                                Page 78

computer, server computer, or laptop computer; personal digital assistants (PDAs) such as a
Windows CE device; phones such as cellular phones, smartphones (e.g., iPhone, Android,
Blackberry, etc.), or location-aware portable phones (such as GPS); a roaming device, such as
a network-connected roaming device; a wireless device such as a wireless email device or
other device capable of communicating wireless with a computer network; or any other type
of network device that may communicate possibly over a network and handle electronic
transactions. Such communication may include providing data to a cloud computing
infrastructure or any other type of data storage infrastructure which may be accessed by other
devices.
     [002741    A sample processing device may provide data regarding a sample to, e.g., a
health care professional, a health care professional location, such as a laboratory, or an
affiliate thereof. One or more of a laboratory., health care professional, or subject may have a
network device able to receive or access data provided by the sample processing device. A
sample processing device may be configured to provide data regarding a sample to a
database. A sample processing device may be configured to provide data regarding a sample
to an electronic medical records system, to a laboratory information system, to a laboratory
automation system, or other system or software. A sample processing device may provide
data in the form of a report.
     100275]    A laboratory, device, or other entity or software may perform analysis on data
regarding a sample in real-time. A software system may perform chemical analysis and/or
pathological analysis, or these could be distributed amongst combinations of lab, clinical, and
specialty or expert personnel. Analysis may include qualitative and/or quantitative evaluation
of a sample. Data analysis may include a subsequent qualitative and/or quantitative
evaluation of a sample. Optionally, a report may be generated based on raw data, pre
processed data, or analyzed data. Such a report may be prepared so as to maintain
confidentiality of the data obtained from the sample, the identity and other information
regarding the subject from whom a sample was obtained, analysis of the data, and other
confidential information. The report and/or the data may be transmitted to a health care
professional. Data obtained by a sample processing device, or analysis of such data, or
reports, may be provided to a database, an electronic medical records system, to a laboratory
information system, to a laboratory automation system, or other system or software.
     Nucleic Acid Detection
                                               Page 79

     [00276]     Markers indicative of a disease, such as a respiratory disease, include nucleic
acid markers. Such nucleic acid markers include, for example, viral nucleic acids, or portions
thereof; bacterial nucleic acids, or portions thereof; and nucleic acids, or portions thereof,
derived from other micro-organisms. Methods for detecting nucleic acid markers in a sample,
including in a small volume sample, include methods in which small amounts of nucleic acid
may be amplified (e.g., copies made). For example, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
related methods are common methods of nucleic acid amplification. PCR is discussed, for
example, in i IJ.S. Pat. No. 4,683,195; and generally in Mullis et al., Cold Spring Harbor
Symposium on Quantitative Biology, volume 51:263 (1987); Erlich, ed., PCR Technology
(Stockton Press, NY, 1989). PCR is one, but not the only, example of a nucleic acid
polymerase reaction method for amplifying a nucleic acid test sample comprising the use of a
known nucleic acid as a priner and a nucleic acid polymerase to amplify or generate a
specific piece of nucleic acid. Further discussion of PCR and other methods may be found,
for example, in Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual by Green and Sambrook, Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,    4 th Edition 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein
in its entirety. PCR and many other amplification methods must be performed at multiple
different temperatures, requiring repeated temperature changes during the PCR reaction
("thermal cycling"). Other amplification methods, such as, e.g., loop-mediated isothermal
amplification ("LAMP") (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 6,410,278), and other methods, including
methods discussed below, require less or less extensive thermal cycling than does PCR, or
require no thermal cycling.
    Nucleic Acid Amp/i/ication and Detection Methods without Thermal Cycling
     [002771     Methods for nucleic acid amplification which do not require thermal cycling
are described in United States Patent Application 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013,
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Such methods may be used to detect nucleic
acid markers of disease, such as respiratory disease, in small-volume samples in short periods
of time. Such methods are discussed below, and examples of results obtained with such
methods, from small samples and in short periods of time, are presented in the Figures and
Examples disclosed herein. In the following, such methods are termed "non-cycling
amplification methods."
     [00278]     Non-cycling amplification methods of nucleic acid amplification may be
applied to double-stranded DNA. However, target nucleic acid molecules need not be limited
to double-stranded DNA targets; for example, double-stranded DNA for use in non-cycling
                                                Page 80

amplification methods described herein may be prepared from viral RNA, or mRNA, or other
single stranded RNA target sources, by reverse transcriptase. In further example, double
stranded DNA for use in non-cycling amplification methods described herein may be
prepared from single-stranded DNA targets by DNA polymerase. Such methods may be
applied as an initial step, prior to application of the non-cycling amplification methods
discussed below.
     [00279]    Amplification of a double-stranded DNA target, for example, begins with a
primary double-stranded DNA to be amplified (termed the "primary nucleic acid" in the
following). The primary nucleic acid contains a. target region termed a template region; the
template region has a template sequence. Such a double-stranded template region contains a
first DNA strand and a complementary second DNA strand, and includes a 5' terminal
nucleotide in one strand and a 3' terminal nucleotide in the other strand that are
complementary to each other.
     [002801    A first primer and a second primer are provided which each have template
binding regions and tail regions; the primer template-binding regions are complementary to
the target template regions. The tail regions of the primers may contain three components: a)
the 5' terminal nucleotide of the primer, b) an innermost nucleotide, wherein the innermost
nucleotide is downstream from the 5' terminal nucleotide, and c) a middle section between
the 5' terminal nucleotide and the innermost nucleotide, comprising one or more nucleotides.
In addition, at least portions of the two primer tail regions may be complementary to each
other when properly aligned.
     [002811    It should be noted that although the tail region of the second primer may
contain a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence of the tail
region of the first primer, typically, products formed by the annealing of the first primer and
second primer are not desirable or useful for methods or compositions provided herein.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, steps may be taken to minimize the formation of first
primer - second primer annealed products. Such steps may include, for example, riot pre
incubating a first primer and a second primer under conditions where the primers may ameal
for an extended period of time before initiating a method provided herein.
     [002821    The primary nucleic acid may be treated with a polymerase and a first copy of
the first primer under conditions such that the template-binding region of the first copy of the
first primer anneals to the first strand of the nucleic acid template. Under these conditions, an
                                                 Page 81

extension product of the first copy of the first primer is formed. The polymerase, which may
have strand displacement activity, may catalyze the formation of the extension product of the
first copy of the first primer. The first copy of the first primer may be covalently linked to the
synthesized extension product, such that the first copy of the first primer (which is
complementary to the first strand of the nucleic acid template) becomes part of the molecule
described herein as the "extension product of the first copy of the first primer." The template
binding region but not the tail region of the first copy of the first primer anneals to the first
strand of the nucleic acid template. Examples of conditions suitable for polymerase-based
nucleic acid synthesis are known in the art and are provided, for example, in Molecular
Clonin;_ A Laboratory Manual, M.R. Green and J. Sambrook, Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press (2012), which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
     [00283]    The extension product of the first copy of the first primer may be treated with
a polymerase (which may have strand displacement activity) and with the second primer
under conditions such that the template-binding region of the second primer anneals to the
extension product of the first copy of the first primer. In this way, an extension product of the
second primer may be formed. The polymerase may displace the first strand of the nucleic
acid template from the extension product of the first copy of the first primer during the
synthesis of the extension product of the second primer. The second primer may be
covalently linked to the synthesized extension product, such that the second primer becomes
part of the molecule described herein as the "extension product of the second primer." The
extension product of the second primer is complementary to the extension product of the first
copy of the first primer. The template-binding region but not the tail region of the second
primer may anneal to the extension product of the first copy of the first primer when the
second primer anneals to the extension product of the first copy of the first primer.
     [00284]    The extension product of the second primer may be treated with a polymerase
(which may have strand displacement activity) and a second copy of the first primer so as to
forn an extension product of the second copy of the first primer. During the generation of the
extension product of the second copy of the first primer, the second copy of the first primer
may be covalently linked to the synthesized extension product, such that the second copy of
the first primer becomes part of the molecule described herein as the "extension product of
the second copy of the first primer." The extension product of the second copy of the first
primer is complementary to the extension product of the second primer.
                                                Page 82

     [00285]    Generation of the extension product of the second copy of the first primer may
result in the generation of a molecule comprising the extension product of the second copy of
the first primer and the extension product of the second primer, which may be referred to
herein as the "secondary nucleic acid." A secondary nucleic acid may comprise the 3'
terminal region of the extension product of the second primer (and the complement thereof)
and may comprise the 3' terminal region of the extension product of the second copy of the
first primer (and the complement thereof). Secondary nucleic acid molecules include
sequences of the template region adjacent to tail sequences. In embodiments, double-stranded
nucleic acids are produced in which complementary template and tail region sequences line
up. In practice, multiple copies (e.g., two or more) of the secondary nucleic acid are produced
by any process whereby a nucleic acid having the general structure of the secondary nucleic
acid may be generated, including by practice of non-cycling amplification methods discussed
herein.
     100286]    Thus, pairs of copies of the secondary nucleic acid may be provided. Further
numbers of copies may then be generated, for example, by repetition of the foregoing steps
and methods. For example, the full process as described above for generating a secondary
nucleic acid from a primary nucleic acid may be repeated two times, in order to generate a
two pairs of copies of the secondary nucleic acid; further repetitions may be performed to
amplify the number of copies further, e.g., to exponentially amplify the number of copies
(e.g., by powers of two).
     [00287]    In addition, since the secondary nucleic acid molecules include sequences of
the template region adjacent to tail sequences, partially double-stranded nucleic acids may be
produced in which tail region sequences hybridize and line up. Since these tail region
sequences are attached to single-stranded template regions, a cross-over structure having two
nucleic acid strands together held by the hybridized tail region sequences is produced. These
cross-over structures may be extended by a polymerase to form extension products of both
component strands. These extension products which may be referred to as "concatemer
strands." Two coticatemer strands may be annealed together, and may be collectively referred
to as a concatemer; such concatemers may contain two or more copies of the nucleic acid
template.
     [00288]    In some embodiments, even longer concatemers may be formed. For example,
concatemers may anneal together; or two concatemer molecules may form a cross-over
structure similar to those formed by the shorter molecules termed concatemer strands, as
                                               Page 83

discussed above, followed by a larger concatemer molecule containing four copies of the
nucleic acid template. In another example, a secondary nucleic acid and a concatemer may
form a cross-over structure, followed by a larger concatemer molecule containing three
copies of the nucleic acid template. In some embodiments, multiple different concatemers of
multiple different lengths may be simultaneously generated.
     [0(0289]    Thus, concatemers generated according to such methods may be of any length
of nucleotides. In some embodiments, concatemer molecules generated herein may be at least
30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1500,
2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000, 9000, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, or 25,000
nucleotides in length. Concatemers generated according to such methods may contain any
number of copies of a nucleic acid template. In some embodiments, concatemer molecules
generated herein may contain at least 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 copies of a nucleic acid template. Further
examples are provided, and greater detail of these and other examples, is provided in U.S.
Patent Application 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013.
     Detection of Reactions
     [00290]     Progress of a method provided herein may be monitored in multiple different
ways. In one embodiment, a reaction may be assayed for a nucleic acid amplification product
(e.g. for the level of the product or the rate of its generation). In another embodiment, a
reaction tnay be assayed for the activity of a polymerase along a nucleic acid template (e.g.
for movement of a polymerase along a template strand). 'Thus, in some embodiments, events
of a method provided herein may observed due to the accumulation of product from a method
(which tnay be during or after completion of steps of the method), or due to detectable events
occurring during the steps of a method.
     1002911     The presence of amplified nucleic acids can be assayed, for example, by
detection of reaction products (amplified nucleic acids or reaction by-products) or by
detection of probes associated with the reaction progress.
     [00292]     In some embodiments, reaction products may be identified by staining the
products with a dye. In some embodiments, a dye may have greater fluorescence when
bound to a nucleic acid than when not bound to a nucleic acid. In some embodiments, a dye
may intercalate with a double-stranded nucleic acid or it may bind to an external region of a
nucleic acid. Nucleic acid dyes that may be used with methods and compositions provided
                                                 Page 84

herein include, for example, cyanine dyes, PicoGreen @, OliGreen k, RiboGreen k, SYBR@K
dyes, SYBR @ Gold, SYBR           Green I, SYBR k Green II, ethidium bromide,
dihydroethidium, BlueViewTM, TOTO @ dyes, TO-PRO @Idyes, POPO @K             dyes, YOYO @K
dyes, BOBO k dyes, JOJO k dyes, LOLO @R         dyes, SYTOX @K    dyes, SYTO @R   dyes,
propidium iodide, hexidium iodide, methylene blue, DAPI, acridine orange, quinacrine,
acridine dimers. 9-amino-6-chloro--methoxyacridine, bisbenzimide dyes, Hoechst dyes, 7
aminoactinomycin D, actinonycin D, hydroxystilbamidine, pyronin Y, Diamond           TM dye,
GelRedTM, GelGreenTM and LDS 75 1.
     [002931     In some embodiments, reaction products may be identified by analysis of
turbidity of amplification reactions for example, where increased turbidity is correlated with
formation of reaction products and reaction by-products (e.g. pyrophosphate complexed with
magnesium).
     [00294]     In some embodiments, reaction products may be identified by separating a
reaction performed according to a method herein by gel electrophoresis, followed by staining
of the gel with a dye for nucleic acids. The dye may be any nucleic acid dye disclosed herein
or otherwise known in the art.
     [00295]     In some embodiments, any method or composition known in the art for the
detection of nucleic acids or processes associated with the generation of nucleic acids may be
used with methods and compositions provided herein.
     [002961     In some embodiments, a nucleic acid probe which contains a nucleotide
sequence complementary to a portion of a nucleic acid template strand (or strand having a
similar or identical sequence) and which contains one or both of a fluorescent reporter
(fluorophore) and a quencher are included in a reaction provided herein.
     100297]     In an example, a nucleic acid probe may contain a fluorescent reporter at its 5'
or 3' terminus, and a quencher at the other terminus.
     [002981     In another example, a nucleic acid probe may contain a fluorescent reporter at
its 5' or 3' terminus, and it may be annealed to a nucleic acid primer containing a quencher.
The nucleic acid primer containing a quencher may contain the quencher at a position in the
primer such that when the nucleic acid probe is annealed to the primer, the fluorescent
reporter is quenched.
     [00299]     In probes containing a fluorescent reporter and quencher pair, the fluorescent
reporter and quencher may be selected so that the quencher can effectively quench the
                                               Page 85

reporter. In some embodiments, a fluorescent reporter is paired with a quencher where the
emission maximum of the fluorescent reporter is similar to the absorption maximum of the
quencher. Fluorphores that may be used as the fluorescent reporter include, for example,
CAL Fluor Gold, CAL Fluor Orange, Quasar 570, CAL Fluor Red 590, CAL Fluor Red 610,
CAL Fluor Red 610, CAL Fluor Red 635, Quasar 670 (Biosearch Technologies), VIC, NED
(Life Technologies), Cy3, Cy5, Cy5.5 (GE Healthcare Life Sciences), Oyster 556, Oyster 645
(Integrated DNA Technologies), iC red 610, LC red 610, LC red 640, LC red 670, LC red
705 (Roche Applies Science), Texas red, FAM, TET, HEX, JOE, TMR, and ROX.
Quenchers that may be used include, for example, DDQ-I, DDQ-II (Eurogentec), Eclipse
(Epoch Biosciences), Iowa Black FQ, Iowa Black RQ (Integrated DNA Technologies), BHQ
 1, BHQ-2, BHQ-3 (Biosearch Technologies), QSY-7, QSY-21 (Molecular Probes), and
Dabeyl.
     100300]     In some embodiments, a method provided herein may be monitored in an
apparatus containing a light source and an optical sensor. In some situations, the reaction
may be positioned in the path of light from the light source, and light absorbed by the sample
(e.g. in the case of a turbid reaction), scattered by the sample (e.g. in the case of a turbid
reaction), or emitted by the sample (e.g. in the case of a reaction containing a fluorescent
molecule) may be measured. In some embodiments, a method provided herein may be
performed or monitored in a device or module therein as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013, which is herein incorporated by reference in
its entirety,
     Detection of Nucleic Acids and Protein Mlarkers of Infection
     [00301]     A sample, such as a throat swab, a nasal swab, a mouth swab (e.g., a cheek
swab), a vaginal swab, saliva, blood, or other sample, may be used for more than one assay.
For example, a sample may be subjected to nucleic acid testing and to testing for peptides
indicative of an infection. In embodiments, a sample may be divided into two or more
portions, and each portion may be subjected to a single test, or may be subjected to a plurality
of tests. Nucleic acid testing may be used to identify nucleic acid molecules, or portions
thereof, whose presence indicates the presence of disease-causing oUganisins (e.g., viruses,
bacteria, and other organisms which carry such nucleic acids). Protein (or peptide) testing
may be used to identify peptides or proteins, or portions thereof, whose presence indicates the
presence of disease-causing organisms (e.g., organisms which express such proteins, or
peptides). Protein or peptide testing may be used to identify disease-causing organisms (e.g.
                                                 Page 86

viruses, bacteria, and other organisms) in a sample, and may also be used to identify
antibodies directed against such agents that may be present in a sample. Thus, forms of
protein (or peptide) testing include testing for the presence of antibodies to targets whose
presence indicates the presence of disease-causing organisms. Such nucleic acid and protein
(or peptide) testingmay be used to identify, or estimate, or otherwise determine at what stage
an infection in a subject is at the time the sample was taken, by detecting, or determining the
amounts of, or both, both nucleic acid markers indicative of a particular infection and protein
(or peptide) markers indicative of the same infection (such protein markers of the same
infection include antibodies to the micro-organism that causes the infection, as well as protein
markers present on or in the micro-organism itself).
     [00302]    Nucleic acid markers of an infection include DNA and RNA molecules, and
fragments thereof, unique to the infectious agent (e.g, viral nucleic acids, or bacterial nucleic
acids, or other nucleic acids of any other infectious micro-organism). Peptide or protein
markers of an infection include peptides or proteins unique to the infectious agent (e.g.
bacterial peptides); cytokines and other peptides produced in response to the infection; and
antibodies produced in response to the infection.
     [00303]    For example, where nucleic acid markers indicative of a particular infection
are relatively numerous, while antibody markers indicative of that particular infection are
relatively sparse, then the infection is a recent infection; however, where nucleic acid markers
indicative of a particular infection are relatively numerous, and antibody markers indicative
of that particular infection are also relatively numerous, then the infection is not a recent
infection, since the subject has had the time to produce infection-specific antibodies. Where
nucleic acid markers indicative of a particular infection are relatively sparse, and antibody
markers indicative of that particular infection are relatively numerous, then the infection may
be waning and in a late stage. Other protein markers (other than antibodies to the infectious
organism), being produced by the disease-causing organism itself, such as viral coat proteins,
bacterial cell wall proteins, bacterial toxins, and other non-antibody markers, typically follow
a time-course more similar to that of nucleic acid markers of a particular infection and less
similar to that of antibody markers of a particular infection.
     [00304]    A typical response in human subjects to infection by many infectious agents
includes increased levels of inflanimatory cytokines (including interleukin I (IL-1), IL-6, IL
 18, tumor necrosis factor a (TNF- ), gamma interferon (IFN-y), and others). Cytokine levels
may increase rapidly upon infection.
                                                 Page 87

    [00305]      The time-course of production of antibodies to an infectious agent (e.g., a
virus, bacteria, or other infectious micro-organism) varies between individual subjects and
from infection to infection; such time-courses may be known or identified for different kinds
of infections. In general, a few days or more are required before antibodies to an infectious
agent are detectable in a subject; once detectable, the amount of antibodies detected in a
subject grows, often very rapidly, and may plateau (or peak) over a period of weeks or
months following infection. In addition to the type of infection, factors which may affect the
plateau (or peak) levels, and the timing at which these levels are reached, include whether or
not the infection is acute or chronic; the severity of the infection; other diseases or conditions
affecting the subject; the nutritional status of the subject; environmental factors; and other
factors.
    [00306]      The time-course of an acute infection tnay be short; for example, an acute
infection may follow a time-course measured in days or weeks. For example, many viral and
bacterial infections in an otherwise healthy human subject typically resolve within about a
week. Levels of nucleic acid and protein markers indicative of viral, bacterial, and other
infections typically rise, and then fall, during the course of the infection. Initially, upon
infection, and closely following the time of infection, markers of the infectious agent (e.g.,
nucleic acid markers and protein markers indicative of the viral, bacterial, or other infection)
will be detectable in samples obtained from a subject; the levels of such markers will rise
from the time of infection, and will typically peak within a few days (for a short-lived
infection) or within a few weeks (for an infection of longer duration). Antibodies to the
infectious agent may be detected within a week or two following the infection, and may then
further increase for several weeks (e.g., for a month or more). If the infection itself resolves
and the infectious agent is cleared from the subject, the levels of antibodies will then slowly
decline over a period of months.
    [00307]      Longer term, or chronic infections may follow a longer time-course. For
example, the time-course of viral markers and antibody formation in a person infected with
the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may follow a titne-course over many months and
years. Initially, HIV viral markers (e.g., the viral p24 antigen, viral nucleic acids, and other
viral markers produced by the virus itself) may be present (in samples obtained from a
subject) in high levels for the first few months following infection, and may peak by about 6
months after infection. In contrast, anti HIV antibodies (e.g., antibodies to gpl20 or other
viral antigenic epitopes) are not detectable in samples obtained from a subject for a few
                                                Page 88

months following infection, but become detectable by about 3-5 months after infection, and
anti-HIV antibody levels rise rapidly over the following 6 months or so, continuing to rise at
a less rapid rate from about 1 year after infection to about 4 to 6 years following infection.
Over this period of time frontn about 1 year to about 5 years) the viral marker levels may be
very low; however, in the absence of treatment, as T-cell levels (e.g., CD4 T-cells) will
typically have been falling over the period of time from about I year to about 5 years
following HIV infection, the subject may begin to suffer from systemic immune deficiency
and further T-cell loss (e.g., CD-8 T-cells) about 5-6 years following HIV infection. Levels of
HIV viral markers will typically rise as systemic immune deficiency becomes apparent 5            6
years following HIV infection.
     [00308]     The time-courses relevant to the detection of marker may also depend on the
type of sample tested for the presence of the marker. For example, in some infections, the
causative organism, and nucleic acid and protein markers of the organism, may be found
initially in blood, or saliva, or other fluid or tissue; and may later on be found in urine or stool
samples; and even later on may be detectable in tissue samples. Antibodies to such disease
causing organisms, which typically appear some time following the appearance of the
organism itself in samples, may found first in blood, and then, following their appearance in
blood, in saliva, urine, or stool.
     Devices
     [00309]     The devices, systems, and assays disclosed herein tnay utilize techniques,
devices, systems, and assays disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S. Patent
8,380,541; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,798 filed February 18, 2013; U.S,
Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Application Serial
No. 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/766.095. filed
February 18, 2013; and U.S. Patent Application 61/805,923, filed March 27, 2013, all of
which are incorporated by reference herein (supra).
     [00310]     For example, devices for use in performing assays for detecting a plurality of
disease-causing agents in a single clinical sample, or in a plurality of aliquots of a single
clinical sample include cartridges including some or all of reagent vessels, reaction vessels,
tools and implemnents used in assays, and reagents used in assays. A cartridge may contain
one or more of: reagent vessels; reaction vessels; cytotnetry cuvettes; waste containers;
sample collection devices or sample collection vessels; and other vessels and materials. Such
devices may include multiple vessels containing reagents for use in an assay for the detection
                                                  Page 89

of a plurality of markers indicative of an infectious agent, e.g., an upper respiratory infectious
agent; a lower respiratory infectious agent; a sexually transmitted disease-causing agent; an
agent detectable from a sample obtained from a swab (e.g., a throat swab, a nasal swab, a
mouth swab (e.g., a cheek swab), a vaginal swab, or other swab); an agent detectable from a
blood sample; or combinations thereof.
     [00311]     Thus, for example, a cartridge may contain a plurality of reagent vessels; a
plurality of reagent vessels containing reagents for detecting a marker indicative of a disease
causing agent. Disease-causing agents may include agents which cause upper respiratory
disorders, or lower respiratory disorders, or sexually transmitted diseases. A disease-causing
agent may be detected in a blood sample. A disease-causing agent may be detected in a
sample obtained with a swab, such as a throat swab, or a nasal swab, or a mouth swab (e.g., a
cheek swab), or a vaginal swab, or other sample, or combinations thereof.
     [00312]     In embodiments, a device may be or comprise a cartridge configured to
contain one or more reagent vessels, and one or more reaction vessels, e.g., for use in nucleic
acid assays; for use in immunoassays (e.g., ELISA assays); for use in general chemistry
assays (e.g., for clinical electrolytes, vitamin levels, blood component levels, and other
targets); for use in cytometric assays: and for combinations thereof. In embodiments, such a
device may include reagents, reaction vessels, and tools, cuvettes, and other implements for
use in nucleic acid assays; for immunoassays (e.g., ELISA assays); general chemistry assays
(e.g., for clinical electrolytes, vitamin levels, blood component levels, and other targets);
cytometric assays: and for combinations thereof.
     [00313]     In embodiments, a cartridge for use in performing assays for detecting a
plurality of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may include one or more spaces or
vessels for holding a swab or swabs. A single swab may be placed in a single space, or in a
single vessel; in embodiments, two swabs may be placed in a single space, or single vessel. In
embodiments, a plurality of swabs may be placed in a single space, or single vessel. Vessels
for holding a swab, or swabs, may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or other solution for use
with a swab or swabs.
     [003141     A tiasal swab may be useful for testing for upper respiratory diseases, and a
throat swab may be useful for testing lower respiratory diseases. In embodiments, a mouth
swab (e.g., a cheek swab, a tongue swab, a gum swab, or other swab taken within the mouth)
may be used in addition to, or in place of, a nasal or throat swab. Nasal and throat swabs may
be obtained from a single patient, and may be analyzed at the same time, or at nearly the
                                                  Page 90

same time. For example, a throat swab may be placed in one vessel in a cartridge, and a nasal
swab may be placed in a different vessel in the cartridge, for analysis in an analysis device or
analysis system. For example, a mouth swab may be placed in one vessel in a cartridge, and a
nasal swab may be placed in a different vessel in the cartridge, for analysis in an analysis
device or analysis system. For example, a throat swab may be placed in one vessel in a
cartridge, and a mouth swab may be placed in a different vessel in the cartridge, for analysis
in an analysis device or analysis system. These vessels may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or
other solution for use with the swabs; such reagents may be different for the throat swab and
the nasal swab. In embodiments, reagents may be different for a mouth swab than for a throat
swab or nasal swab. In a further example, a throat swab and a nasal swab from a single
subject may be placed in the same vessel in a device, In a further example, a mouth swab and
a nasal swab from a single subject may be placed in the same vessel in a device. In a further
example, a throat swab and a mouth swab from a single subject may be placed in the same
vessel in a device. The vessel may contain a reagent, or a diluent, or other solution for use
with these swabs. The device may be placed in an analysis device, or within an analysis
system, for analysis. Such analysis devices and analysis systems may be placed at the same
location as that where the sample was obtained; or such analysis devices and analysis systems
may be at a different location or locations than the location where the sample was obtained.
    [00315]     In embodiments, a cartridge for use in performing assays for detecting a
plurality of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may include one or more spaces or
vessels for holding a blood sample. In embodiments, a cartridge for use in performing assays
for detecting a plurality of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may include one or
more spaces or vessels for holding a blood sample and may also include one or more spaces
or vessels for holding a swab or swabs. 'Thus, a device, such as a cartridge, may hold a blood
sample and a throat swab; may hold a blood sample and a nasal swab; and may hold a blood
sample, a throat swab, and a nasal swab. In embodiments, a device, such as a cartridge, may
hold a blood sample and a mouth swab: may hold a blood sample, a mouth swab, and a nasal
swab; and may hold a blood sample, a mouth swab, a throat swab, and a nasal swab.
Similarly, a device, such as a cartridge, may hold a blood sample and a vaginal swab; and
may hold a blood sample, and one or more of a mouth swab, a throat swab, a nasal swab, and
a vaginal swab.
    [003161     In embodiments, a cartridge for use in performing assays for detecting a
plurality of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may include one or more spaces or
vessels for holding a urine sample. In embodiments, a cartridge for use in performing assays
                                               Page 91

for detecting a plurality of disease-causing agents as disclosed herein may include one or
more spaces or vessels for holding a urine sample and may also include one or more spaces
or vessels for holding a swab or swabs. 'Thus, a device, such as a cartridge, may hold a urine
sample and a throat swab; may hold a urine sample and a nasal swab; may hold a urine
sample, a throat swab, and a nasal swab; may hold a urine sample, a throat swab, a mouth
swab, and a nasal swab: and may hold a urine sample, and one or more of a throat swab, a
mouth swab, a.vaginal swab, and a nasal swab.
    [003171      It will be understood that such devices, such as cartridges, may hold other
types of samples as well, and that any combination of types of samples may be held by such
devices (e.g., cartridges). In any and all such cases, the sample or samples may be analyzed in
a sample analysis device or a sample analysis system.
    [00318]      A cartridge may include a sample, and may include reagents for use in
processing or testing a sample, disposables for use in processing or testing a sample, or other
materials. Following placement of a cartridge on, or insertion of a cartridge into, a sample
processing device or system, one or more components of the cartridge may be brought into
fluid communication with other components of the sample processing device. For example, if
a sample is collected at a cartridge, the sample may be transferred to other portions of the
sample processing device. Similarly, if one or more reagents are provided on a cartridge, the
reagents may be transferred to other portions of the sample processing device, or other
components of the sample processing device may be brought to the reagents. In some
embodiments, the reagents or components of a cartridge may remain on-board the cartridge.
In some embodiments, no fluidics are included that require tubing or that require maintenance
(e.g., manual or automated maintenance).
    [00319]      A sample or reagent may be transferred to a device, such as a sample
processing device. A sample or reagent may be transferred within a device. Such transfer of
sample or reagent may be accomplished without providing a continuous fluid pathway from
cartridge to device. Such transfer of sample or reagent may be accomplished without
providing a continuous fluid pathway within a device. In embodiments, such transfer of
sample or reagent may be accomplished by a sample handling system (e.g., a pipette); for
example, a sample, reagent, or aliquot thereof may be aspirated into an open-tipped transfer
component, such as a pipette tip, which may be operably connected to a sample handling
system which transfers the tip, with the sample, reagent, or aliquot thereof contained within
the tip, to a location on or within the sample processing device. The sample, reagent, or
aliquot thereof can be deposited at a location on or within the sample processing device.
                                                Page 92

Sample and reagent, or multiple reagents, may be mixed using a sample handling system in a
similar manner. One or more components of the cartridge may be transferred in an automated
fashion to other portions of the sample processing device, and vice versa.
    [003201      As shown in Fig. 20A, Fig. 20B, and Fig. 20C, a vessel for holding a swab
may be loaded onto a cartridge, where it may be retained until needed for analysis; the
cartridge may be loaded onto an analysis device or analysis system, thereby loading the swab
(and any other samples or sample containers on the cartridge as well). As shown in Fig. 20A,
a vessel for holding a swab (a swab vessel 10) may be loaded onto a cartridge 20 by
placement into a receptacle 30. The cartridge 20 as shown also includes cavities and wells 40
for receiving and holding reagents and vessels. A swab vessel 10 may contain a swab in place
within the swab vessel 10, or may be loaded onto a cartridge without a swab in place within
the swab vessel 10.
    [00321]      As shown in Fig. 2013, a vessel for holding a swab (a swab vessel 10) may be
loaded onto a cartridge 20 by placement into a receptacle 30. The cartridge 20 as shown also
includes cavities and wells 40 for receiving and holding reagents and vessels. In the
embodiment shown in Fig. 20B, the cartridge 20 also includes a sample collection vessel 50,
which may hold, e.g., blood, urine, or other sample. The arrows leading away from the swab
vessel 10 indicate how the swab vessel 10 may be placed into a receptacle 30 in the cartridge
20.
    [00322]      As shown in Fio. 20C, a vessel for holding a swab (a swab vessel 10) may be
loaded onto a cartridge 20 by placement into a receptacle 30. The cartridge 20 as shown also
includes cavities and wells 40 for receiving and holding reagents and vessels. As shown in
the embodiment of Fig. 20C, the cartridge 20 includes a swab receptacle 60 configured to
hold a swab 70. In embodiments (e.g., in the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 20C) a cartridge
20 having a swab receptacle 60 may optionally include a sample collection vessel 50, which
may hold, e.g., blood, urine, or other sample. Such a swab 70 may be held in swab receptacle
60 prior to its use in collecting a sample. In embodiments, a swab 70 may be placed within a
swab vessel 10 after collection of a sample with swab 70. In the embodiment shown in Fig.
20C, swab vessel 10 may be loaded onto a cartridge without a swab in place within the swab
vessel 10 prior to use of swab 70, and swab vessel 10 may be replaced in a receptacle 30,
holding swab 70 within swab vessel 10 after collection of a sample by swab 70.
    [00323]      Swabs may be any suitable swab for collection of a sample. Several examples
of swabs suitable for use in sample collection are shown in Fig. 21. Swabs with flocked tips
                                                Page 93

(swab 100, and the shorter swab 200, suitable for pediatric use), or those also suitable for use
in establishing cultures of material obtained by swabbing a body orifice, a body cavity or
surface of a subject (swab 300), cotton-tipped swabs (swab 400), and other swabs may be
used to collect a sample from a patient for use with the methods, systems, and devices
disclosed herein. For example, samples may be obtained by swabbing a nasal cavity, a throat,
a mouth, a vagina, or other orifice, body cavity, or location on or within a subject.
    Svstens
    [00324]      An analysis system, which may include an analysis device, such as a sample
processing device, may have a fluid handling system (also termed herein a sample handling
system). A fluid handling system may perform, or may aid in performing, transport, dilution,
extraction, aliquotting, mixing, and other actions with a fluid, such as a sample. In some
embodiments, a fluid handling system may be contained within a device housing. A fluid
handling system may permit the collection, delivery, processing andlor transport of a fluid,
dissolution of dry reagents, mixing of liquid and/or dry reagents with a liquid, as well as
collection, delivery, processing and/or transport of non-fluidic components, samples, or
materials. The fluid may be a sample, a reagent, diluent, wash, dye, or any other fluid that may
be used by the device, and may include, but not limited to, homogenous fluids, different
liquids, emulsions, suspensions, and other fluids. A fluid handling system, including without
limitation a pipette, may also be used to transport vessels (with or without fluid contained
therein) around the device. The fluid handling system may dispense or aspirate a fluid. The
sample may include one or more particulate or solid matter floating within a fluid.
    100325]      In embodiments, a fluid handling system may comprise a pipette, pipette tip,
syringe, capillary, or other component. The fluid handling system may have portion with an
interior surface and an exterior surface and an open end. The fluid handling system may
comprise a pipette, which may include a pipette body and a pipette nozzle, and may comprise
a pipette tip. A pipette tip may or may not be removable from a pipette nozzle. In
embodiments, a fluid handling system may use a pipette mated with a pipette tip; a pipette tip
may be disposable. A tip may form a fluid-tight seal when mated with a pipette. A pipette tip
may be used once, twice, or more times. In embodiments, a fluid handling system may use a
pipette or similar device, with or without a pipette tip, to aspirate, dispense, mix, transport, or
otherwise handle the fluid. The fluid may be dispensed from the fluid handling system when
desired. The fluid may be contained within a pipette tip prior to being dispensed, e.g., from an
orifice in the pipette tip. In embodiments, or instances during use, all of the fluid may be
dispensed; in other embodiments, or instances during use, a portion of the fluid within a tip
                                               Page 94

may be dispensed. A pipette may selectively aspirate a fluid. The pipette may aspirate a
selected amount of fluid. The pipette may be capable of actuating stirring mechanisms to mix
the fluid within the tip or within a vessel. The pipette may incorporate tips or vessels creating
continuous flow loops for mixing, including of materials or reagents that are in non-liquid
form. A pipette tip may also facilitate mixture by metered delivery of multiple fluids
simultaneously or in sequence, such as in 2-part substrate reactions.
    100326]      A fluid handling system may include one or more fluidically isolated or
hydraulically independent units. For example, the fluid handling system may include one,
two, or more pipette tips. The pipette tips may be configured to accept and confine a fluid.
The tips may be fluidically isolated from or hydraulically independent of one another. The
fluid contained within each tip may be fluidically isolated or hydraulically independent from
one fluids in other tips and from other fluids within the device. The fluidically isolated or
hydraulically independent units niay be movable relative to other portions of the device and/or
one another. The fluidically isolated or hydraulically independent units may be individually
movable. A fluid handling system may comprise one or more base or support. A base or
support may support one or more pipette or pipette units. A base or support may connect one
or more pipettes of the fluid handling system to one another.
    [003271      A sample processing system, which may include a sample processing device,
may be configured to perform processing steps or actions on a sample obtained from a subject.
Sample processing may include sample preparation, including, e.g., sample dilution, division
of a sample into aliquots, extraction, contact with a reagent, filtration, separation,
centrifugation, or other preparatory or processing action or step. A sample processing device
may be configured to perform one or more sample preparation action or step on the sample.
Optionally, a sample may be prepared for a chemical reaction and/or physical processing step.
A sample preparation action or step may include one or more of the following: centrifugation,
separation, filtration, dilution, enriching, purification, precipitation, incubation, pipetting,
transport, chromatography, cell lysis, cytometry, pulverization, grinding, activation,
ultrasonication, micro column processing, processing with magnetic beads, processing with
nanoparticles, or other sample preparation action or steps. For example, sample preparation
may include one or more step to separate blood into seturn and/or particulate fractions, or to
separate any other sample into various components. Sample preparation may include one or
more step to dilute and/or concentrate a sample, such as a clinical sample or biological
sample, e.g., of blood, urine, sputum, material obtained from a nasal swab, a throat swab, a
cheek swab, or other sample, or other clinical or biological samples. Sample preparation may
                                                 Page 95

include adding an ani- coagulant or other ingredients to a sample. Sample preparation may
also include purification of a sample. In embodiments, all sample processing, preparation, or
assay actions or steps are performed by a single device. In embodiments, all sample
processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a single
device. In embodiments, most sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are
performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, many sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed
by a single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps may be performed by
more than one device.
    [003281     A sample processing system, which may include a sample processing device,
may be configured to run one or more assay on a sample, and to obtain data from the sample.
An assay may include one or more physical or chemical treatments, and may include running
one or more chemical or physical reactions. A sample processing device may be configured to
perform one, two or more assays on a small sample of bodily fluid. One or more chemical
reaction may take place on a sample having a volume, as described elsewhere herein. For
example one or more chemical reaction may take place in a pill having less than femtoliter
volumes. In an instance, the sample collection unit is configured to receive a volume of the
bodily fluid sample equivalent to a single drop or less of blood or interstitial fluid. In
embodiments, the volume of a sample may be a small volume, where a small volume may be a
volume that is less than about 1000 L, or less than about 500 gL, or less than about 250 L,
or less than about 150 pL, or less than about 100 L, or less than about 75 L, or less than
about 50 uL, or less than about 40 L, or less than about 20 L, or less than about 10       L, or
other small volume. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed on a
single sample. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single
device. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a
single device. In embodiments, most sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single
device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, many
sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single device, and may be performed within
a housing of a single device. In embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions
or steps may be performed by more than one device.
    [003291     A sample processing system, which may include a sample processing device, may
be configured to perform a plurality of assays on a sample. For example, a sample processing
device may be configured to detect, or to identify, or to measure pathogen-identifying material
                                               Page 96

in a sample. In embodiments, a sample processing device may be configured to perform a
plurality of assays on a single sample. In embodiments, a sample processing device may be
configured to perform a plurality of assays on a single sample, where the sample is a small
sample. For example, a small sample may have a sample volume that is a small volume of less
than about 1000 gL, or less than about 500 [pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than about
 150 L, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 75 uL, or less than about 50 iL, or less
than about 40 p, or less than about 20 4,     or less than about 10   L, or other small volume. A
sample processing device may be capable of performing multiplexed assays on a single
sample. A plurality of assays may be run simultaneously; may be run sequentially; or some
assays may be run simultaneously while others are run sequentially. One or more control
assays and/or calibrators (e~g., including a configuration with a control of a calibrator for the
assay/tests) can also be incorporated into the device; control assays and assay on calibrators
may be performed simultaneously with assays performed on a sample, or may be performed
before or after assays performed on a sample, or any combination thereof. In embodiments, all
sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single device. In embodiments, all of a
plurality of assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a single device. In
embodiments, most sample assay actions or steps, of a plurality of assays, are performed by a
single device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments,
many sample assay actions or steps, of a plurality of assays, are performed by a single device,
and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, sample
processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps may be performed by more than one device.
    [00330]     In embodiments, all of a plurality of assays may be performed in a short time
period. In embodiments, such a short time period comprises less than about three hours, or
less than about two hours, or less than about one hour, or less than about 40 minutes, or less
than about 30 minutes, or less than about 25 minutes, or less than about 20 minutes, or less
than about 15 minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or less than about 5 minutes, or less than
about 4 minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less than about 2 minutes, or less than about
 1 minute, or other short tinie period.
    [00331]     In embodiments of the methods, devices, and systems disclosed herein,
systems may include one or more assay stations, where, for example, a sample and a reagent
may be mixed. In embodiments of the methods, devices, and systems disclosed herein,
systems may include one or more detection stations, where, for example, a sample, or a label
attached to a target in a sample, or other signal indicative of the presence of a target analyte
in a sample, may be detected. In embodiments of the methods, devices, and systems disclosed
                                               Page 97

herein, one or more assay stations may also serve as a detection station. For example, where
an assay reacts a reagent or reagents with an analyte within a vessel, the vessel serves as an
assay station; where the vessel is transparent to a signal produced by the reaction, and where
the vessel is adjacent a detector effective that the signal (and thus the presence or
concentration of the analyte) may be detected, the vessel also serves as a detection station.
For example, some nucleic acid analysis methods and systems provide a heating block (or
other temperature-controlling element) and a detector at, or near to , a position in which a
vessel containing sample and reagents is disposed during a reaction, and during detection of
the results of the reaction. In such an embodiment, a vessel is not moved from the location of
the reaction to a different location for detection of the results of the reaction, so the vessel
(and the location and accompanying devices and operative elements) serves as both an assay
station and a detection station. In further embodiments, a vessel is moved from a location
where a reaction occurs, or a sample (or sample-containing) solution is moved from the assay
vessel, to a different location or vessel where detection occurs. In such an embodiment,
where a vessel (or solution) is moved from the location of the reaction to a different location
for detection of the results of the reaction, the vessel (and the location and accompanying
assay devices and operative elements) serves as an assay station, and a different location (and
devices or elements) serves as a detection station.
     [00332]     Systems for detecting the presence of one or more of a plurality of markers
indicative of an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical sample include, for example, a)
a sample handling system; b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor; c) a fluidically
isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample; d) an assay station
comprising at least a first and a second fluidically isolated assay unit, wherein the first unit
comprises a first reagent and the second unit comprises a second reagent; and e) a controller,
wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively coupled to the sample
handling system and the detection station. Such systems may be configured to perform assays
with one or both of the first and second assay units; wherein the local memory of the
controller comprises a protocol comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling
system to transfer a portion of the clinical sample to the first assay unit and to the second
assay unit: and ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first assay unit and the
second unit assay unit to the detection station. In further embodiments, an assay station in
such systems may include at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated assay unit,
wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent, the second unit comprises a second reagent,
and the third unit comprises a third reagent. In further embodiments, an assay station in such
                                                 Page 98

systems may include at least a first, second, third, and fourth fluidically isolated assay unit,
wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent, the second unit comprises a second reagent,
the third unit comprises a third reagent, and the fourth unit comprises a fourth reagent. It will
be understood that embodiments of such systems may include more than four assay units; or
other numbers of assay units.
     [00333]     In embodiments, assays are performed with any one or more of the first,
second, and third assay units; or with any one or more of the first, second, third, and fourth
assay units, wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a protocol comprising
instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a portion of the clinical
sample to the first assay unit, the second assay unit, and, where applicable, the third assay
unit and/or fourth assay units; and ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first
assay unit, the second assay unit, and, where appropriate, the third assay unit and/or the
fourth assay unit to the detection station.
     100334]     Further systems for detecting the presence of one or more of a plurality of
markers indicative of an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical sample include a) a
sample handling system; b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor; c) a fluid
handling system configured to transport fluids between components of said system, wherein
said transport of fluids comprises transport of isolated aliquots of fluid; d) a fluidically
isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample; e) an assay station
comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated assay unit, wherein the first
unit comprises a first reagent, the second unit comprises a second reagent, and the third unit
comprises a third reagent; and f) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local
memory and is operatively coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station.
Such systems may be configured to perform assays with any one or more of the first, second,
and third assay units; wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a protocol
comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a portion of
the clinical sample to the first assay unit, the second assay unit and the third assay unit; and
ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first assay unit, the second assay unit,
and the third assay unit to the detection station. It will be understood that embodiments of
such systems may include only two assay units; or may include four assay units; or other
numbers of assay units.
     [00335]     Clinical sample processing systems for use in performing assays as disclosed
herein may include a) a sample handling system; b) a detection station comprising an optical
                                                 Page 99

sensor; c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated assay unit,
wherein the first unit comprises an antibody, the second unit comprises an oligonucleotide,
and the third unit comprises a chromogen or a dye or other label; and e) a controller, wherein
the controller is operatively coupled to the sample handling system, wherein the sample
handling system is configured to transfer a portion of the clinical sample from the sample
collection unit to each of the first assay unit, the second assay unit, and the third assay unit,
and the device is configured to perform an immunoassay, a nucleic acid assay, and a general
chemistry assay comprising a chromogen.
     [003361     Such systems may be point-of service (POS) systems. These systems may be
contained within a housing. A system located at a POS location may be configured for use in
analyzing a sample at the POS location. These systems may be POS systems configured to
perform a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof.
EXAMPLE I
     Testing for and Detecting Nucleic Acid Markers of Disease and Disease-Causing
     Agents
     [00337]     Disease-causing agents such as viruses, bacteria, yeast, fungi, and other micro
organisms have identifying nucleic acids and proteins, among other identifying
characteristics which may serve as markers. Markers indicative of a disease, or of a disease
causing agent, such as a respiratory disease, or a form of influenza, or a sexually transmitted
disease, or other disease, include nucleic acid markers.
     [003381     As shown in the figures, markers for many diseases may be tested for, and
may be detected, using nucleic acid assays as disclosed herein. All of the disease-causing
agents tested for in the tests shown in Fig. IA were detected within 40 minutes, with most of
the agents detected within about 30 minutes. Detection times for copy numbers of 100 copies
per inicroliter (c/pL) were shorter than for lower copy numbers (1 0 c/p L). The detection time
for samples having 100 copies per pL are shown in Figure 1B; most were near or less than 20
minutes, with many detection times of about 15 minutes or less.
     [003391     Fig. IA provides a graphic summary of the durations of time from the
initiation of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a
sample for a range of markers and for two different concentration ranges of the markers (10
c/pl and 100 c/pl, where "c/pl"' means copies per microliter (pL) The 10 c/l results are
shown to the left of the 100 c/pl results for each disease type (influenza (Flu), respiratory,
                                                Page 100

and sexually transmitted disease (STD)) shown in the figure. The times are labeled "LOD"
("length of delay"). The vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative
fluorescence units, RFU), in thousands.
    [003401       Fig. 11B provides a bar chart showing the durations of time from the initiation
of nucleic acid assay until detection of the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample for
the indicated markers for various diseases (at 100 c/L).
    [00341]       Further information regarding detection time for various diseases, grouped by
general location of the infection, or type of disease, or samples by which the diseases may be
detected are presented in Figs. IC through IF (all at 100 c/pl). Fig. IC shows the durations of
time from the initiation of nucleic acid assay until detection for several influenza strains and
identifying targets. Fig. ID shows the durations of time from the initiation of nucleic acid
assay until detection for several respiratory diseases. Fig. lE shows the durations of time
from the initiation of nucleic acid assay until detection for several sexually transmitted
diseases. Fig. IF shows the durations of time from the initiation of nucleic acid assay until
detection for several diseases that can be detected in blood.
    [003421       Complementary information is presented in Table 2A indicating the numbers
of copies per pl that are detectable with these assays for several diseases.
                          TABLE 2A
        1  Trypanosoma cruz:                     <0.01 c/ut
        2   PlasmoOum                            < 0.1 c/uL
        3  Bordetella pertussis                  < 4 c/utL
        4   Influenza B                          < 10 c/uL
        5   Influenza H3N2                       < 10 c/uL
        6   Influenza H1N1 seasonal              < 10 c/uL
        7   Influenza HI1NI novel                < 10 c/uL
        8 H7N9 flu - HA gene                     < 10 c/uL
        9 H7N9 flu - NA gene                     < 10 c/uL
        10 Human RNaseP                          < 10 c/uL
        1lStrepA                                 < 10 c/uL
        12Staph. aureus                          < 10 c/uL
        13 MRSA                                  < 10 c/ut
        14Adenovirus B                           < 10 c/uL
        15 Adenovirus C                          < 10 c/uL
        16Adenovirus E                           < 10 c/uL
        17 Klebsiella pneumoniae KPC             < 10 c/ut
        18 Bocavirus type 2, 4                   < 10 c/uL
        19 Coronavirus 229E                      < 10 c/uL
        20Coronavirus NL63                       < 10 c/uL
        21Streptococcus pneumoniae               < 10 c/ut
        22 Bordetella parapertussis              < 10 c/uL
                                                 Page 101

         23 Haemophilus parainfluenzae         < 10 c/uL
         24 Enterobacter aerogenes             < 10 c/uL
         25 Moraxella catarrhalis              < 10 c/uL
         26StrepB                              < 10 c/uL
         27 HSV                                <10c/uL
         28 Treponema pallidum                 < 10 c/uL
         29 Hepatitis B - Assay #1             < 10 c/uL
         30 HIV-1 group M - Assay #1           < 10 c/ut
         31 IV-1 group M - Assay #2            < 10 c/uL
         32 HIV-2 GroupA                       < 10 c/uL
         33 Dengue Virus type 1                < 10 c/uL
         34 Dengue Virus type 2                < 10 c/ut
         35 Dengue Virus type 3                < 10 c/uL
         36 Dengue Virus type 4                < 10 c/uL
         37 Epstein-Barr Virus                 < 10 c/uL
         38 Influenza A                        < 100 c/uL
         39H5N1                                <100c/uL
         40 MTB                                < 100 c/uL
         41 Bocavirus type 1, 3                < 100 c/uL
         42 Klebsiella pneumoniae phoE         < 100 c/uL
         43 Coronavirus HKU1                   < 100 c/uL
         44Coronavirus MERS                    < 100 c/uL
         45 Coronavirus OC43                   < 100 c/uL
         46 Parainfluenza Virus 1              < 100 c/uL
         47 Parainfluenza Virus 2              < 100 c/uL
         48 Parainfluenza Virus 3              < 100 c/uL
         49 Metapneuno Virus (hMPV) Al         < 100 c/uL
         50 Haernophiius influenza             < 100 c/uL
         51 HepDelta- Assay #1                 < 100 c/uL
         52 HepDelta- Assay #2                 < 100 c/uL
         53 HIV-2 GroupB                       < 100 c/uL
         54 WNV-2                              < 100 c/uL
     [00343]      In the above Tables and elsewhere herein, "NA" indicates neuraminidase
"HA" indicates hemagglutinin; "Klebsiella pneumonia KPC" indicates Klebsiella pneumonia
carbapenemase; the "phoE" of "Klebsiella pneumonia phoE" indicates phosphate transport
porin; "MRSA" indicates Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; "Metapneumo Virus
(hMPV)" indicates human Metapneumo Virus; "HepDeha" indicates Hepatitis Delta;
"WNV"      indicates West Nile Virus; "Pan Inf A" and "Pan Inf B" indicate assays generic for
all strains of the indicated influenza; and "HAT" indicates hospital acquired infection.
     [00344]      The average detection time for these 54 diseases (at 100 c/pl or less) was less
than 23 minutes (22.77 minute average). A smaller subset of 35 diseases measured at 10 c/l
or less had an average detection time of less than 30 minutes (29.11 minute average). These
                                               Page 102

assays, including assays for these diseases, are suitable for validation for use in Clinical
Laboratories Improvement Act (CLIA) laboratories. For example, such assays for several
forms of influenza (pandemic influenza A, pandemic influenza B, HINi-Novel, HINI
Seasonal, and H3N2 influenza) have been performed through CLIA Validation.
    [00345]     These results were obtained by nucleic acid assays as described below and in
U.S. Patent Application 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013. For example, the following
results demonstrate testing for, and detection of, nucleic acid markers indicative of a variety
of infectious diseases in a short period of time. As shown in the figures, nany markers may
be tested for, and may be detected. Figure 2 shows results for detection of markers for
influenza A (seasonal H1N:1 strain). Figure 3 shows results for detection of markers for
influenza A (novel 1 I1     strain). Figure 4 shows results for detection of markers for
influenza A (H3N2 strain). Figure 5 shows results for detection of markers for influenza A
(H7N9 strain) Figure 6 shows results for detection of markers for influenza A (H5Ni strain).
Figure 7 shows results for detection of markers for influenza B. Figure 8 shows results for
detection of markers for influenza Matrix Protein. Figure 9 shows results for markers for
tuberculosis (Myobacterium tuberculosis). Figure 10 shows results for markers for
staphylocccus (Staphylococcus aureus). Figure II shows results for markers for Methicilin
Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Figure 12 shows results for markers for
streptocccus (Streptococcus Group A). Figure 13 shows results for markers for Bordetella
pertussis. Figure 14 shows results for markers for adenovirus B. Figure 15 shows results for
markers for adenovirus C. Figure 16 shows results for markers for adenovirus E. Figure 17
shows results for markers for Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV). Figure 18 shows results for
markers for Treponemna pallidum.
    [00346]     Samples obtained from subjects, including siall samples from subjects, may
be tested for other diseases in addition to the diseases listed in the figures and in Table 2A.
For example, some other diseases which may be tested for by these methods are listed in
Table 2B. The column labeled "Panel" indicates the type of disease (where HAI indicates
Hospital Acquired Infection, and STD indicates sexually transmitted disease).
                                 TABLE 2B
                       #                      Assay             Panel
                       1.           Acinetobacter baumanni       HAI
                       2            Bordetella parapertussis  Respiratory
                                                     Page 103

                        3          Chlamydophila pneumoniae       Respiratory
                        4                        RSV A            Respiratory
                        5            Enterobacter aerogenes           HAI
                        SHepatitis                      C            STD
                        7              Enterobecter cloacae           HAI
                        8              -1.irluenzae blaTEM            HAI
                        9            Legionella pneumophila           HAI
                       10              Serratia marcescens            HAI
                       11              Meetneumovirus B           Respiratory
                       12           Pseudomonas aeruginosa            HAI
                       13                 Parainfluenza 4a        Respiratory
                       14                 Parainfluenza 4b        Respiratory
                       15                 West Nile Virus 1       Respiratory
                       16          Penicillin-resistant S. pneumo Respiratory
                       17                   HIV-1 group )            STD
                       183             H. influenzae blaROB           HAI
                       19                        RSV B            Respiratory
                       20                    Rhinovirus A         Respiratory
                       21.                   Rhinovirus B         Respiraltory
                       22                    Rhinovirus C         Respiratory
     [00347]     The systems, methods, and devices disclosed herein may be used to test for,
and to detect, the presence of markers indicative of one or more of the infectious agents listed
above; such testing, and such detecting, may be performed on a single clinical sample, or on a
plurality of aliquots of a single clinical sample. Such a single clinical sample may be a single
small-volume clinical sample. Such testing, and detecting, may be performed at a POS
location; the systems, devices and methods may be POS systems, device, and methods. For
example, the clinical sample may be collected at the POS location, and may be analyzed in a
device at the POS location. As shown in the results illustrated in the Figures, the analysis of
the small-volume clinical sample may be completed in a short period of time.
     100348]     Thus, the following are some of the disease-causing agents may be tested for,
and may be detected, according to the methods, and by the systems and devices, as disclosed
herein.
     [003491     TABLE 3 Disease-Causing Agents and Markers Therefor
   Influenza A Matrix protein
   Influenza H3N2
   Influenza HINI seasonal
                                                         Page 104

Influenza HINI novel
Influenza B
Streptococcus pyogenes (A)
Mycobacterurm Tuberculosis
Staphylococcus aureus (MR)
Staphylococcus aureus (RS)
Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough)
Streptococcus agalactiae (B)
Influenza H5Ni
Influenza H7N9
Adenovirus B
Adenovirus C
Adenovirus E
Hepatitis b
Hepatitis c
Hepatitis delta
Treponema pallidum
HSV-1, HSV-2
HIV-1
 HIV-2
Human RNaseP (sample prep control)
Dengue 1
Dengue 2
Dengue 3
Dengue 4
Malaria
West Nile Virus
Trypanosorna cruzi (Chagas)
Klebsiella pn euroniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp)
Klebsiella pneurnoniae carbapenernase (KPC)
Epstein Barr Virus (mono)
Rhinovirus
Parainfluenza virus (1)
Parainfluenza virus (2)
Parainfluenza virus (3)
Parainfluenza virus (4a)
Parainfluenza virus (4b)
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B
Coronavirus 229E
Coronavirus HKU1
Coronavirus OC43
Coronavirus NL63
Novel Coronavirus
Bocavirus
hurnan metapneumovirus (HMPV)
                                            Page 105

   Streptococcus preumoriae (penic R)
   Streptococcus pneurnniae (S)
   Mycoplasma pneumoniae
   Chlanydia pneumoniae
   Bordetella parpertussis
   Haemophilus influenzae (ampic R)
   Haemophilus influenzae (ampic S)
   Moraxella catarrhalis
   Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa)
   Haemophilus parainfluenzae
   Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp
   Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae spp)
   Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp)
   Acinetobacter baunanii
   Legionella spp
   Escherichia coh
   Candida
   Chmarnydia trachornat
   HPV
   Neisseria gonorrhoeae
   Trichornonas (vagin)
    [00350]      The disease-causing agents listed in Table 3 may be tested for, and may be
detected, by the methods, and using the systems and devices disclosed herein. For example,
markers for the disease-causing agents listed in Table 3 may be tested for, and may be
detected, by the methods, and using the systems and devices disclosed herein. Such markers
may include, for example, nucleic acid markers. In addition, such markers may include
saccharide markers, or other markers, such as, e.g., protein markers. Methods of testing for,
and of detecting, protein markers are discussed in the following example.
Example 2
    Detection of Influenza Virus from 2 pL of Prepared Sample
    [003511      Detection of nucleic acid from 2 tL of sample taken from cultured cells
infected with seasonal influenza virus (HINI) is shown in Figures 19A (sample) and 19B
(control). Nucleic acid obtained from the cell cultures was prepared using the Chemagic
magnetic separator module I with DWP 24 XL adapters and reagents from the Chemagic
Viral DNA/RNA Kit (No. CMG-1089; No. CMG-1082 is similar) from Chernagen
(PerkinElmer chemagen Technologie Gmbh, Baesweller, Germany)). This method uses
magnetic bead separation to isolate RNA and DNA from a sample. Chermagen reagents and
disposables were used in preparing the samples.
                                               Page 106

     [00352]    H INI influenza RNA was obtained from cultured infected MDCK cells.
Briefly, cell culture samples were prepared by dispensing approximately I mL of sample
solution into a well containing lysis buffer, poly(A) RNA reagent, and proteinase K solutions
with gentle mixing. The wells were covered and heated at 55 'C for ten minutes. Following
this ten minute incubation, binding buffer was added to the wells containing the lysed sample
solution. This mixed solution was then processed by the Chernagic magnetic separator
module I. Nucleic acids were released by vortexing (rotation of probes) in the buffer and then
bound to the magnetic beads, which were immobilized by a magnet during wash steps. The
nucleic acids freed in the sample bound to the beads and were retained during wash steps;
following the wash steps, the nucleic acids were eluted into elution buffer (10 mM TRIS
HlC], pH 8.0),
     [00353]    Following this sample preparation, the prepared sample was placed in a
container held in a cartridge, and the cartridge was loaded on an automatic sample analysis
device (such cartridges, devices, and their uses are described, for example, in U. S. Patent
8,088,593; U.S. Patent 8,380,541; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,798, filed
February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013;
U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,820, filed February 18, 2013; PCT/LJS2012/57155,
filed September 25, 2012; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,949, filed September 2 6, 2011:
U.S. Application Serial No. 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No.
61/766,095, filed February 18, 2013; and U.S. Application Serial No. 61/673,245, filed July
 18, 2012; U.S. Patent Application 61/805,923, filed March 27, 2013, hereby incorporated by
reference in their entireties).
     [003541    A 2 pL aliquot of the prepared sample solution was placed in a vessel
containing 20 pL of MasterMix (containing buffer, betaine, dNTPs, forward (RLX1222) and
reverse (RLX1223) probes, Syto 59 Red dye), and mixed with 3 pL of enzyme preparation
(containing B. stearothermophilus DNA polymerase (Bst), Avian Myeloblastosis Virus
Reverse Transcriptase (AmvRT), NEB4 buffer (New England Biolabs Cat. No. B7004S), and
water) in a reaction vessel in the automatic sample analysis device. Primers specific for
HIN I influenza virus were included in the mixture in the reaction vessel. The combination of
sample, MasterMix, template, and enzyme preparation was incubated at 56 'C in the reaction
vessel according to the methods discussed above, and fluorescence was measured every
minute for 30 minutes (fluorescence was from SYTO 59 dye). The fluorescence was read as
relative fluorescence.
                                               Page 107

     [00355]     Fig. 19A shows amplification over time, the rise in relative fluorescence at
about 15 to 20 minutes indicating the presence of an Influenza HINI seasonal marker. The
horizontal axis is in "minutes; the vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence
(relative fluorescence units, RFU).
     [00356]     Fig. 19B shows amplification of "no template control" (no added copies of the
target marker; NTC). Note that most experiments showed no amplification; the three runs that
show late increases in relative fluorescence did so at about 25 minutes or later. The horizontal
axis is in minutess; the vertical axis is shown in units of relative fluorescence (relative
fluorescence units, RFU).
     [00357]     The results from Figures 19A and 19B show that viral nucleic acid can be
detected from small volume samples (e.g., 2 pL of sample) within a short amount of time
(e.g., about 15 to 20 minutes or less).
Example 3
     Detection of Influenza Virus Proteins by ELISA
     [00358]     Detection of proteins indicative of Influenza A infection and proteins
indicative of Influenza B infection was accomplished using devices and systems as described,
for example, in U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S. Patent 8,380,541; J.S. Patent Application Serial
No. 13/769,798, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779,
filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,820, filed February 18,
2013; PCT/US2012/57155, filed September 25, 2012; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,949,
filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/800,606, filed March 15, 2013;
U.S. Application Serial No. 61/766,095, filed February 18, 2013; and U.S. Application Serial
No. 61/673,245, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application 611/805,923, filed March
27, 2013 (references that were previously listed and incorporated by reference in their
entireties in text above). Unless otherwise stated below (e.g., with regard to results obtained
with commercial systems for comparison) such devices and systems were used to obtain the
data presented below.
     [00359]    Assay Design and Puipose: The assays for Influenza A and Influenza B were
designed to provide qualitative detection of Influenza A or Influenza B nucleoprotein
antigens in a sample obtained with a nasal swab. These assays are useful in the diagnosis of
Influenza A viral infections or Influenza B viral infections in a subject from whom the
sample was obtained. The assay was a sandwich assay, in which anti-Influenza A or B
                                               Page 108

antibodies were immobilized on a substrate (the interior of a translucent or transparent pipette
tip), and sample, alkaline phosphatase (ALP)-conjugated anti-Influenza A or B antibody, and
ALP substrate added to produce chemiluminescence proportional to the amount of Influenza
antigen in the sample. The assay results were compared to those of a commercial test (the
Remel X/pect Influenza A & B; Remel Products, Lenexa, KS, USA, a division of Therno
Fisher Scientific, Inc.).
     [00360]    Materials andMethods: The interior of a custom polymer pipette tip served as
the surface for this sandwich ELISA assay. The pipette tips were typically made from
polystyrene or polypropylene, although other polymers or plastic materials are also suitable.
The pipette tip interiors were coated with avidin. The capture surface for the sandwich
ELISA was prepared by coating biotin-labeled anti-Influenza A antibody or biotin-labeled
anti-Influenza B antibody onto the avidin-coated interior surfaces of the pipettes.
     [00361]    Capture and detection antibodies were obtained from Inited States Biological
Corporation (Salem, MA, USA) or SouthernBiotech (SouthernBiotechnology Associates,
Inc., Birmingham, AL, USA); capture antibodies were conjugated with biotin using a biotin
labeling kit, and detection antibodies were conjugated with ALP using a ALP labeling kit,
both from Dojindo Molecular Technologies, Inc. (Rockville, MD, USA). Buffers were
obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corporation (St. Louis, MO, USA).
     100362]    Samples were obtained from the nasal passages of subjects using nasal swabs.
Nasal swabs containing sample material were then subjected to an extraction process. ALP
labeled anti-influenza A or ALP-labeled anti-influenza B antibodies were then mixed with the
extracted sample material. This mixture was then incubated with the capture surface for 5
minutes. After the incubation, the capture surface was washed and ALP substrate was
incubated on the surface for 5 minutes; the resulting chemiluminescence intensity was then
read, with results reported in Relative Light Units (RLU).
     [00363]    Bujfers: TRIS-buffered Saline consisted of 138 mM NaCi, 2.7 mM KCl, and
0.05 M tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (TRIS), pH 8.
     [00364]    The extraction buffer was 0.5% Tween 20, 0.1% sodium azide in 20 mM
sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.6).
     100365]    The blocking buffer was 3% BSA blocking buffer, consisting of TRIS
buffered Saline, 3% BSA, 0.05% NaN3, at pH 8.
                                              Page 109

    [00366]     The alkaline phosphatase (AP) stabilizer was prepared by adding 0.1mM zine
chloride and 5m1M magnesium chloride to the 3% BSA blocking buffer.
    [003671     The wash buffer was TRIS-buffered Saline, 0.05% Tween 20, 0.05% NaN3, at
pH 8.
     100368]    Inluenza A and influenza B Antibody Screen: Various permutations of pairs of
Influenza A or Influenza B antibodies, consisting of paired capture antibodies (CAbs) and
detection antibodies (DAbs), were tested on microtitre plates in order to identify the best
performing pairs. A volume of 50 pl of sample was added to 400 p1 of extraction buffer for
these experiments. The conditions included 5 pg/mL of CAb and 100 ng/mL (final
concentration) of DAb in blocking buffer. Positive and negative controls were front kits
obtained from either Microbix Biosystems, Inc. (Mississauga, Ontao, Canada) or the
Virusys Corporation (Taneytown, MD, USA). The best pairs from the mnicrotitre plate
screening experiments were then evaluated on the devices and systems disclosed herein, as
discussed in the following paragraphs.
    [003691      CaptureSur/ace Titration: The capture surface was titrated at the following
concentrations: 10 pg/ml, 5 pg/ml, and I pg/ml. Controls from the Virusys kit and Microbix
kit were used for this screening. The background control was a blocking buffer blank with no
added sample. The DAb was maintained at a concentration of 100 ng/ml (final concentration
in blocking buffer). The optimal CAb concentration was determined to be 5 [ig/ml for both
Influenza A and Influenza B.
    [003701     Alkaline PhosphataseStabilizer: Two alkaline phosphatase stabilizers were
tested for use as DAb diluents. In these experiments, 50 pl of sample was added to 500 pl of
extraction buffer. The CAb concentration was 5 [tg/ml while the DAb concentration was
maintained at 100 ng/ml (final concentration after the protocol run). Both the custom AP
stabilizer solution (ingredients listed above) and the commercial Stabilzyme AP conjugate
stabilizer (SurModics, Inc., Eden Prairie, MN, USA) worked well. The custom AP stabilizer
was used in subsequent experiments.
    [00371]     Detection Antibody Titration: The AP-conjugated DAbs were titrated in the
AP stabilizer solution. The best modulation between the positive and negative controls was
observed at 50 ng/ml final concentration. The Influenza A positive controls were obtained
from Microbix Biosystems, Inc. and ZeptoMetrix Corporation (Buffalo, NY, USA), and the
                                               Page 110

Influenza B positive controls were obtained from Microbix Biosystems, Inc. and Virusys
Corporation.
    [003721     Sgecificiy tests - nfjluenza A: Specificity and cross reactivity studies were
performed in extraction buffer using the sample processing and analysis devices and systems
as disclosed herein. Controls for testing for potential cross-reactants were obtained from
Microbix Biosystems, Inc. The potential cross-reactants tested were Respiratory Syncytial
Virus, Mycoplasma pneumonia, Adenovirus, Parainfluenza A-III, Parainfluenza A-lI and
Parainfluenza A ---I. CAb concentration was 5 pg/mi while DAb concentration was 100 ng/mi
(final concentration after protocol run). No cross-reactivity was detected in these
experiments. Different strains of Influenza A and Influenza B were also tested to determine
the Influenza A specificity in the assay. Both Zeptometrix and Microbix controls (which are
prediluted controls) were used for this test. Positive Influenza A control swabs from the
Remel Xpect Flu kit were also used. A sam ple volume of 200 pl was mixed with 200 pl1of
extraction buffer and tested for these prediluted samples. Swabs were processed using 400 pl
of extraction buffer for these experiments. In the following tables, relative light unit (RLU)
measurements were made in triplicate; "CV%" is calculated by dividing the standard
deviation of the three measurements by the mean of the three measurements and multiplying
by 100.
                           Table 4:        Specificity Tests - Influenza A
       Sample Type                 Sample                           Mean RLU           CV%
       Microbix POS CTL             Influenza A                          127832         25.7
       Zeptornetrix -POS CTL        Influenza A                           24235         10.3
       Swab-Renel (FDA)             Influenza A                          269726         11.2
       Zeptornetrix-Influenza  A
       Strain                       Brisbane/59/07                       202118         10.8
       Zeptonetrix-Influenza   A
       Strain                       Brisbane/10/07                        60655         14.2
       Zeptornetrix-Irnfluenza A
       Strain                       Perth/16/2009                         36571         14.0
       Zeptometrix-Influenza   A
       Strain                      Solomon Islands/03/2006                91428         11.8
       Virusys                      250ng/nl of InfTuenza A              439907         16.3
                                             Mean Positive               156559
       Microbix                     Respiratory Syncytial Virus            1744         21.3
       Microbix                     Mycoplasma pneumoniae                  1798         23.2
       Microbix                    Adenovirus                              1954         24.7
       Microbix                     Parainfluenza A-Ill                    2162         22.0
       Microbix                     Parainfluenza A-Il                     2110         25.2
                                                  Page I1I

       Microbix                     Parainfluenza A -i                   2108            20.3
       Microbix NEG CTL             Influenza A/B Negative               2072            28.0
       Zeptometrix-Influenza   B
       Strain                       Lee/40                               2042            16.6
       Zeptometrix-Influenza   B
       Strain                       Florida/02/2006                      2806            16.4
       Zeptornetrix-Influenza  B
       Strain                       Brisbane/33/2008                     2849            15.7
       Zeptornetrix-Influenza  B
       Strain                       Panama/45/90                         2536            26.9
    [00373]      Specificity tests - Influenza B: Specificity and cross reactivity studies were
performed in extraction buffer using the sample processing and analysis devices and systems
as disclosed herein. CAb concentration was 5 pg/mil while DAb concentration was 100 ng/ml
(final concentration after protocol run). No cross-reactivity was detected in these
experiments.
                 Table 5:         Specificity Tests - Influenza B
               Type                         Sample                  Mean RLU           CV%
        Microbix CTL         Influenza B Pos                         120127            11.7
        Virusys CTL          Influenza B Pos                          95127            12.1
                             Mean Positive                           107627
        Negative CTL         Negative Influenza B Virusys CTL          1965            18.3
        Cross Reactant       Parainfluenza 1                           1257            19.3
         Cross Reactant      Parainfluenza 2                           1509            19.3
         Cross Reactant      Parainfluenza 3                           1496             5.4
         Cross Reactant      Adenovirus                                1169            23.8
         Cross Reactant      M. Pneumoniae                             1979             6.5
         Cross Reactant      Respiratory Syncytial Virus               1313            25.1
         Cross Reactant      Corynebacterium diptheriae                3081            22.0
         Cross Reactant      Streptococcus pyrogenes                   4388            24,8
         Cross Reactant      Streptococcus pneurnoniae                 6902            25.5
         Cross Reactant      CMV                                       534             11.5
         Cross Reactant      Nmeningitis                               3455            14.8
         Cross Reactant      Epstein Barr Virus                        1938             8.2
         Cross Reactant      Measles                                   1710            23.6
         Cross Reactant      Mumps                                     2423            10.0
         Cross Reactant      E.coli                                    2291             9.2
                             Mean RLU of cross reactants               2363
                             Modulation                                45.5
    [003741      Clinicalevaluation of the influenza A assay: The performance of the Influenza
A assay using the sample processing and analysis devices and systems as disclosed herein
                                                   Page 112

was compared to the results obtained with the Remel FDA kit. CAb concentration was 5
pg/iml while DAb concentration was maintained at 50 ng/ml (final concentration after the
protocol was run). For the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC,
Hertfordshire, UK) influenza strains, 50 ul of sample was added to the swab, and the swab
was then treated like a sample swab. For the Zeptometrix panel controls (prediluted samples),
200 pl of sample was mixed with 200 Pl of extraction buffer. Sample swabs were placed in
500 pt of extraction buffer and incubated for 3-5 minutes. This extracted sample was then
analyzed using the devices and systems as disclosed herein. Swabs and samples were
processed on the Remel FDA kit as directed in the kit instructions.
     [003751     In the following tables, the "antibody index" (Ab Index) was used to
determine whether or not target influenza antigens were detected in a sample. The Ab Index
was calculated by dividing the mean RLU by the cutoff value (calculated from the normal
samples). The cutoff value was set equal to the mean (normals) plus 4.5 x standard deviation
(normals). An Ab Index of less than one indicates that a sample was a normal sample
(negative: no target influenza antigens were detected in the sample); an Ab Index of greater
than one indicates that a sample was a positive sample (positive: target influenza antigens
were detected in the sample). The column labeled "Remel FDA" presents the results of the
Renmel FDA kit on the indicated samples as either positive (+): influenza A detected, negative
(-): influenza A not detected, or "NT": not tested.
                 Table 6:       Clinical Evaluation - Influenza A
                                                                                          Ab   Rernel
             Type                                      ID#                              Index   FDA
     Normal Clinicals                                    1                               0.02
                                                         6                               0.02
                                                         7                               0.02
                                                         8                               0.02
                                                        10                               0.02
                                                        11                               0.01
                                                        12                              0.02
                                                        13                               0.01
                                                        15                               0.02
                                                        16                               0.04
                                                        17                               0.02
                                                        18                               0.02
                                                         2                               0.32
                                                         3                               0.23
                                                         4                               0,20
                                                Page 113

                                                          9                             0.05
                                                         14                             0.29
                                                         19                             0.95
     REMEL                                            FDA Swab                          2.66    +
     Zeptometrix CTLS      Influenza A POS                                              1.27    +
     Ze ptom etrix
     Influenza A           Brisbane/10/07                                               2.58
     Zeptormetrix
     Influenza A           Solomon Islands/03/2006                                      3.25    +
     Zeptometrix
     Influenza A           New Caledonia/20/99                                          2.57    +
     Ze ptom etrix
     Influenza A           Brisbane/59/07                                               5.16    +
     NIBSC STANDARDS       Panama 45/90                                                 0.06    NT
     FLU B Strains         influenza Antigen B-Johannesburg                             0.06    NT
                           Influenza Antigen B-Guangdong                                0.08    NT
                           Influenza Antigen B/Yamanashi/166/98.                        0.11    NT
                           Influenza Antigen B/Malaysia/2506/2004                       0.02    NT
                           Influenza Antigen B/Harbin/7/94                              0.06    NT
                           B:/Florida 4/2006                                            0.04    NT
     NIBSC STANDARDS       Influenza Antigen A/California /7/2009-HINI                  6.88    NT
     FLU A Strains         influenza Antigen A/HongKong/1073/99 (H9N2)                  8,56    NT
                           Influenza Antigen A/Cambodia/R0405050/2007 (H5NI)            6.02    NT
                           Influenza Antigen A/mallard/England/727/2006 (H2N3)          5,70    NT
                           Influenza Antigen A/New York/107/2003 (H7N2) (NIBRG-109)     7.26    NT
                           Influenza Antigen A/New York/55/2004 (H3N2) (NYMC X-157)     6.54    NT
     [00376]      The results of these Influenza A clinical evaluation experiments showed that
all samples with Influenza. A antigens tested positive for Influenza A, while normal samples
and samples with Influenza B antigens did not test positive for Influenza A; these results
were in agreement with the results obtained with Remel FDA kit.
     [003771      Clinicalevaluation of the Inlfuenza B assay: The performance of the Influenza
B assay using the sample processing and analysis devices and systems as disclosed herein
was compared to the Remel FDA kit. CAb concentration was 5 pg/ml while DAb
concentration was maintained at 50 ng/ml (final concentration after the protocol was run). For
the NIBSC influenza strains, 50 pl of sample was added to the swab, and the swab was then
treated like a sample swab. For the Zeptometrix panel controls (prediluted samples), 200 p l
of sample was mixed with 200 pl of extraction buffer. Swabs were placed in 500 pl of
extraction buffer and incubated for 3-5 minutes. This extracted sample was then analyzed
using the devices and systems as disclosed herein. Swabs and samples were processed on the
Remel FDA kit as directed in the kit instructions. As discussed above, the cutoff value was
set equal to the mean normalss) plus 4.5 x standard deviation (normals), and the Ab Index
                                                Page 114

was calculated by dividing the mean RLU by the cutoff value. The column labeled "Remel
FDA" presents the results of the Rernel FDA kit on the indicated samples as either positive
(+): influenza B detected, or negative (-): influenza B not detected.
                        Table 7:          Clinical Evaluation - Influenza B
                                                                                     Ab     Renel
              Type                                       ID#                       Index     FDA
    Normal Clinicals                                       1                        0.02
                                                           6                        0.03
                                                           7                        0.02
                                                           8                        0.02
                                                          10                        0.04
                                                          11                        0.02
                                                          12                        0.03
                                                          13                        0.01
                                                          15                        0.02
                                                          16                        0.06
                                                          17                        0.02
                                                          18                        0.03
                                                           2                        0.11
                                                           3                        0.03
                                                           4                        0.04
                                                           9                        0.05
                                                          14                        0.36
                                                          19                        0.79
    REMEL                FDA Pos B Swab                                            10.78      +
    Zeptornetric QC
    panel                Influenza A POS                                            0.02
    Influenza A          Brisbane/10/07                                             0.03
    Influenza A          Solomon islands/03/2006                                    0.01
    Influenza A          New Caledonia/20/99                                        0.02
    Influenza A          Brisbane/59/07                                             0.03
    NIBSC STANDARDS      Panama 45/90                                              1438       +
                         Influenza Antigen B-Johannesburg                           2.58      +
                         Influenza Antigen B-Guangdong                             21.28      +
                         Influenza Antigen B/Yamanashi/166/98.                      6.05      +
                         Influenza Antigen B/Malaysia/2506/2004                     7.53      +
                         Influenza Antigen B/Harbin/7/94                           1821       +
                         B:/Florida 4/2006                                         19,27      +
                         Influenza Antigen A/California /7/2009-H1N1                0.36
                         Influenza Antigen A/HongKong/1073/99 (H9N2)                0.50
                         Influenza Antigen A/Cambodia/RO405050/2007 (H5N1)          0.61
                         Influenza Antigen A/malard/England/727/2006 (H2N3)         0.50
                         Influenza Antigen A/New York/107/2003 (H7N2) (NIBRG-109)   0.39
                         Influenza Antigen A/New York/55/2004 (H3N2) (NYMC X-157)   0.12
      Zeptometrix Panel
          Influenza B    Lee/40                                                    11.31      +
          Influenza B    Florida/02/2006                                            2.57      +
          Influenza B    Brisbane/33/2008                                          1236       +
          Influenza B    Panama/45/90                                               5.93      +
          Influenza B    Panama/45/90                                               4.64      +
                                                  Page 115

     [00378]    The results of these Influenza B clinical evaluation experiments showed that
all samples with Influenza B antigens tested positive for Influenza B, while normal samples
and samples with Influenza A antigens did not test positive for Influenza B; these results
were in agreement with the results obtained with Remel FDA kit.
     Example 4
     [00379]    Further examples of markers indicative of infectious disease which may be
detected, identified, and analyzed by methods, systems and devices disclosed herein are
shown in Figs. 22-32. For example, Fig. 22 lists further markers for diseases which are
named in the figure, and which are grouped together as, e.g. nosocomial diseases (listed
under the heading "Nosocomial Panel (HAI)"); respiratory diseases (listed under the heading
"Respiratory Panel"); sexually transmitted diseases (listed under the heading "STD Panel
(lesion swabs)" and "STD Panel (blood)", where the parenthetical expressions "lesion swabs"
and "blood" indicate the source and method of obtaining the sample); infectious diseases
(listed under the heading "Infectious Disease Panel"); gastrointestinal diseases (listed under
the heading "Gastrointestinal Panel"); and urinary tract diseases (listed under the heading
"Urinary Tract Infection Panel"). Fig. 22 also lists controls and additional assays, as
indicated by the labels "Controls" and "Additional Assays".
     [003801    Fig, 23A shows an influenza panel naming several influenza types which may
be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein. This figure refers to detection of
various types of influenza by nucleic acid detection methods discussed herein. In this, and
subsequent figures, and elsewhere in the application, "LOD" indicates "limit of detection."
The influenza types may be detected at levels indicated in the figure; for example, influenza
A may be detected by the methods, devices and systems disclosed herein when present in a
sample at less than 100 copies per microliter (c/uL, where copies refers to copies of the target
nucleic acid sequence indicative of influenza A). As indicated in Fig. 23A, other influenza
types, such as influenza B and influenza H1INi (seasonal) can be detected at levels of less
than 10 copies per microliter.
     100381]    Fig. 23B shows inflection times for several influenza types which may be
identified by the methods and devices discussed herein. Target influenza nucleic acids
indicative of the named influenza types were tested at 100 copies per microliter, and the time
(from initiation of the nucleic acid detection assay) in minutes until detection is displayed (as
detected by the inflection of the RFU output as shown, e.g., in previous figures).
     [00382]    Fig. 24A shows various respiratory disease panels naming respiratory disease
types which may be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein. The limit of
                                               Page 116

detection (LOD) is indicated for each respiratory disease in the right-most column of the
figure; LODs were either 10 copies per microliter (c/uL) or 100 c/uL.
    [003831      Fig. 24B shows inflection times for upper and lower respiratory tract disease
types which may be identified by the methods and devices discussed herein. Target
respiratory disease nucleic acids indicative of the named respiratory diseases were tested at
 100 copies per microliter, and the time (from initiation of the nucleic acid detection assay) in
minutes until detection is displayed (as detected by the inflection of the RFU output as
shown, e.g., in previous figures).
    [00384]      Fig. 25A shows various hospital acquired infectious diseases (indicated by the
acronym "HAI") naming diseases which may be identified by the methods and devices
discussed herein. The limit of detection (LOD) is indicated for each HAI disease in the right
most column of the figure; all LODs were 10 copies per microliter (c/uL).
    [00385]      Fig. 2513 shows inflection times for various hospital acquired infectious
disease panels naming respiratory disease types which may be identified by the methods and
devices discussed herein. Target nucleic acids indicative of the named HAI diseases were
tested at 100 copies per microliter, and the time (from initiation of the nucleic acid detection
assay) in minutes until detection is displayed (as detected by the inflection of the R FU
output).
    [00386]      Fig. 26 shows results of a nucleic acid assay as described herein (see also the
descriptions of these methods, e.g., in U.S. Patent Applications 61/800,606; 61/908,027;
62,001,050; and 14/214,850) for influenza A matrix protein that is designed to be inclusive
for all Influenza A subtypes. The results are specific. Note that the inflection times for the
"no template control" (NTC) as well as for the influenza B targets were significantly greater
than (and readily distinguishable from) the inflection times for the influenza A targets.
    [003871      Fig. 27 shows that the nucleic acid assays described herein (see also the
descriptions of these methods, e.g. in U.S. Patent Applications 61/800606; 61
62,001,050; and 14/214,850) are specific for the target H2N2 influenza type. The results are
specific. Note that the inflection times for the H3N2 influenza A targets A/Aichi/2/68,
A/Victoria/3/75, and L 881 were significantly shorter than (and readily distinguishable from)
the inflection times for the non-H3N2 influenzas.
    [00388]      Fig. 28 shows that the nucleic acid assays as described herein (see also the
descriptions of these methods, e.g., in U.S. Patent Applications 61/800,606; 61/908,027;
62,001,050; and 14/214,850) are specific for the target H1INI seasonal influenza type. Note
that the inflection times for the HINI (seasonal) influenza A targets were significantly
                                               Page 117

shorter than (and readily distinguishable front) the inflection times for the other influenzas
and for the no template control (NTC).
    [003891      Fig. 29 shows potential interfering substances for the nucleic acid assays as
applied to the sexually transmitted disease (STD) panel, and concentrations which these
interfering substances were tested for interference with the assays. None of the indicated
concentrations of the potentially interfering substances interfered with the nucleic acid
assays.
    [00390]      Fig. 30 shows potential interfering substances for the nucleic acid assays as
applied to the sexually transmitted disease (STD) urine panel, and concentrations which these
interfering substances were tested for interference with the assays. None of the indicated
concentrations of the potentially interfering substances interfered with the nucleic acid
assays.
    [00391]      Fig. 31 shows potential interfering substances for the nucleic acid assays as
applied to the blood panel, and concentrations which these interfering substances were tested
for interference with the assays. None of the indicated concentrations of the potentially
interfering substances interfered with the nucleic acid assays.
    [003921      While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment as
described herein, it is possible to use various alternatives, modifications and equivalents.
Therefore, the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the
above description but should, instead, be determined with reference to the appended claims,
along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature, whether preferred or not, may be
combined with any other feature, whether preferred or not. The appended claims are not to
be interpreted as including means-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is
explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase "means for."' It should be understood that
as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "a,"
"an," and "the" includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also,
as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of 'in"
includes "in" and "on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Finally, as used in the
description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meanings of "and" and "or"
include both the coniunctive and disjunctive and may be used interchangeably unless the
context expressly dictates otherwise. Thus, in contexts where the terms "and" or "or" are
used, usage of such conjunctions do not exclude an "and/or" meaning unless the context
expressly dictates otherwise.
                                               Page 118

    [00393]     This document contains material subject to copyright protection. The
copyright owner (Applicant herein) has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone
of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as they appear in the US Patent and
Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights
whatsoever. The following notice shall apply: Copyright 2013-2014 Theranos, Inc.
                                             Page 119

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1  1. A system for detecting the presence of one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of
 2 an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical sample, comprising:
 3          a) a sample handling system;
 4          b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
 5          c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
 6          d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
 7 assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent comprising an antibody, the second
 8 unit comprises a second reagent comprising an oligonucleotide, and the third unit comprises a
 9 third reagent comprising a chronogen, dye, or other label; and
10          e) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively
11 coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station;
12          wherein the system is configured to perform assays with any one or more of the first,
13 second, and third assay units; wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a
14 protocol comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a
15 portion of the clinical sample to the first assay unit for performance of an immunoassay, the
16 second assay unit for performance of a nucleic acid assay, and the third assay unit for
17 performance of a general chemistry assay comprising a chromogen, dye, or other label; and
18 ii) directing the sample handling system to transfer the first unit, the second unit, and the third
19 assay unit to the detection station.
 1 2. A system for detecting the presence of one or more of a plurality of markers indicative of
 2          an infectious disease in a small-volume clinical sample, comprising:
 3          a) a sample handling system;
 4          b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
 5          c) a fluid handling system configured to transport fluids between components of said
 6 system., wherein said transport of fluids comprises transport of isolated aliquots of fluid;
 7          d) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
 8          e) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
 9 assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises a first reagent comprising an antibody, the second
                                                   Page 120

10 unit comprises a second reagent comprising a nucleic acid, and the third unit comprises a
11 third reagent comprising a chromogen, dye, or other label; and
12         f) a controller, wherein the controller comprises a local memory and is operatively
13 coupled to the sample handling system and the detection station;
14         wherein the system is configured to perform assays with any one or more of the first,
15 second, and third assay units: wherein the local memory of the controller comprises a
16 protocol comprising instructions for: i) directing the sample handling system to transfer a
17 portion of the clinical sample to the first assay unit for performance of an immunoassay,, the
18 second assay unit for performance of a nucleic acid assay. and the third assay unit for the
19 performance of a general chemistry assay; and ii) directing the sample handling system to
20 transfer the first unit,the second unit, and the third assay unit to the detection station.
 1 3. A clinical sample processing device, comprising:
 2         a) a sample handling system;
 3         b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
 4         c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
 5         d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
 6 assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises an antibody, the second unit comprises an
 7 oligonucleotide, and the third unit comprises a chromogen, dye or other label; and
 8         e) a controller, wherein the controller is operatively coupled to the sample handling
 9 system, wherein the sample handling system is configured to transfer a portion of the clinical
10 sample from the sample collection unit to each of the first assay unit, the second assay unit,
11 and the third assay unit, and the device is configured to perform ani immunoassay, a nucleic
12 acid assay, and a general chemistry assay comprising a chromogen, dye, or other label.
 1 4. The system of any of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the system comprises a point-of service
 2 system.
 1 5. The system of any of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the system is located at a point-of-service
 2 location, and is configured for use in analyzing a sample at said point-of-service location.
                                                   Page 121

 1 6. The system of any of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the system is a point-of service system
 2 configured to perform a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on aliquots
 3 thereof.
 1 7. The point-of-service (POS) system of claim 6, wherein a small volume comprises a volume
 2 selected from volumes less than about 500 paL, less than about 250 pL, less than 150 pL, less
 3 than about 100 pL, less than about 50 pL, less than about 25 pL, less than about 10 pL, less
 4 than about 5 pL, and less than about I p1L
 1 8. The point-of-service (POS) system of any of claims 4 to 7, wherein the POS location is
 2 selected from a retail pharmacy, a supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
 1 9. The system of any of claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein the system is contained within a housing.
 1  10. The system of claim 9, wherein the fluid handling system is configured to transport fluid
 2 within said housing.
 1  11. A clinical sample processing device, comprising:
 2         a) a sample handling system;
 3         b) a detection station comprising an optical sensor;
 4         c) a fluidically isolated sample collection unit configured to retain a clinical sample;
 5         d) an assay station comprising at least a first, second, and third fluidically isolated
 6 assay unit, wherein the first unit comprises an antibody, the second unit comprises an
 7 oligonucleotide, and the third unit comprises a chromogen or a dye or other label; and
 8         e) a controller, wherein the controller is operatively coupled to the sample handling
 9 system, wherein the sample handling system is configured to transfer a portion of the clinical
10 sample from the sample collection unit to each of the first assay unit, the second assay unit,
11 and the third assay unit, and the device is configured to perform an immunoassay, a nucleic
12 acid assay, and a general chemistry assay comprising a chromogen, dye, or other label.
 1  12. The device of claim 11, wherein the device comprises a point-of service device.
 1  13. The device of claim l1, wherein the device is located at a point-of-service location, and
 2 is configured for use in analyzing a sample at said point-of-service location.
                                                  Page 122

 1  14. The device of claim 11, wherein the device is a point-of service device configured to
 2 perform a plurality of assays on a single small volume sample, or on aliquots thereof.
 1  15. The point-of-service (POS) device of claim 14, wherein a small volume comprises a
 2 volume selected from volumes less than about 500 pL, less than about 250 PL, less than 150
 3 pL, less than about 100 pL, less than about 50 iL, less than about 25 pL, less than about 10
 4 p,   less than about 5 pL, and less than about 1 pL.
 1  16. The point-of-service (POS) device of any of claims 12 to 15, wherein the POS location is
 2 selected front a retail pharmacy, a supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
 1  17. The device of claim 11, wherein the device comprises a housing.
 1  18. The device of claim 17, wherein the fluid handling system is configured to transport fluid
 2 within said housing.
 1  19. A method of testing for the presence of a plurality of different disease markers in a small
 2 volume clinical sample, comprising:
 3          a) introducing a clinical sample having a volume of no greater than 500       microliters
 4 into a sample processing device, wherein the device comprises:
 5                   i) a sample handling system;
 6                  ii) a detection station;
 7                  iii) a cytomnetry station comprising an imaging device and a stage for receiving
 8 a microscopy cuvette; and
 9                   iv) an assay station comprising at least a first, a second, a third, and a fourth
10 independently movable assay unit;
11          b) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring a portion of the clinical
12 sample to each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay units, wherein an assay for the
13 detection of a first, second, third, and fourth disease marker is performed in each of the first,
14 second, third, and fourth assay units:
15          c)with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring the first, second, third, and
16 fourth assay units to the detection station or cytometry station, wherein assay units
                                                   Page 123

17 comprising inmunoassays or general chemistry assays are transferred to the detection station
18 and assay units comprising cytometric assays are transferred to the cytotnetry station; and
19          d) with the aid of the detection station or cytometry station, obtaining data
20 measurements of the assay performed in each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay
21 units.
 1 20. A method of detecting the presence of at least one disease marker that is one of a plurality
 2 of different disease markers tested in a small-volume clinical sample, comprising:
 3          a) introducing a clinical sample having a volume of no greater than 500 microliters
 4 into a sample processing device, wherein the device comprises:
 5                   i) a sample handling system;
 6                  ii) a detection station;
 7                  iii) a cytotnetry station comprising an imaging device and a stage for receiving
 8 a microscopy cuvette; and
 9                   iv) an assay station comprising at least a first, a second, a third, and a fourth
10 independently movable assay unit;
11         b) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring a portion of the clinical
12 sample to each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay units, wherein an assay for the
13 detection of a first, second, third, and fourth disease marker is performed in each of the first,
14 second, third, and fourth assay units:
15         c) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring the first, second, third, and
16 fourth assay units to the detection station or cytometry station, wherein assay units
17 comprising immunoassays or general chemistry assays are transferred to the detection station
18 and assay units comprising cytometric assays are transferred to the cytometry station;
19          d) with the aid of the detection station or cytometry station, obtaining data
20 measurements of the assay performed in each of the first, second, third, and fourth assay
21 units, and
22          e) detecting the presence of a disease marker.
 1 2 1. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location.
                                                    Page 124

1 22. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, the method is a point-of service method performed
2 at a point-of-service location, and wherein the clinical sample is obtained at the point of
3 service location.
1 23. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, the method is a point-of service method performed
2 at a point-of- service location, and wherein the methods are used in analyzing a clinical
3 sample at said point-of-service location.
1 24. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, comprising point-of service methods performed at a
2 point-of-service location, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality of assays on a
3 single small volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof.
1 25. The method of claim 19 or claim '20, comprising point-of service methods performed at a
2 point-of-service location, wherein the methods may be performed in a short period of tine.
1  26. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, comprising point-of service methods performed at a
2 point-of-service location, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality of assays on a
3 single small volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof, and may be performed in a short
4 period of time.
1 27. The method of any of claims 19 to 26, wherein the methods are performed on a small
2 volume clinical sample, wherein said small volume comprises a volume selected from
3 volumes less than about 500 pL, less than about 250 PL, less than 150 pL, less than about
4  100 pL, less than about 50 uL, less than about 25 L, less than about 10 pL, less than about 5
5 pL, and less than about 1 pL,
1 28. The method of any of claims 19 to 27, wherein the methods are perfonned in a short
2 period of time, wherein a short time period comprises a period of time of less than about three
3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about 50 minutes, or
4 less than about 45 minutes, or less than about 40 minutes, or less than about 30 minutes, or
s less than about 20 minutes, or less than about 15 minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or
6 less than about 5 minutes, or less than about 4 minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less
7 than about 2 minutes, or less than about I minute.
                                                 Page 125

1 29. The method of any of claims 19 to 28, wherein the method is performed at a point-of
2 service (POS) location, wherein a POS location is selected from a retail pharmacy, a
3 supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
1 30. The method of any of claims 19 to 29, wherein the method comprises an automatic
2 method.
I 31. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, comprising testing for, or detecting, a disease
2 marker, wherein the disease marker is selected from a nucleic disease marker, a protein
3 disease marker, a saccharide, a prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker
4 for inflammation.
1 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the disease marker is a marker for inflanmation
2 selected from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-u), interleukin-1 (IL-1),
3 interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin- 12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin,
4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
6 other cells.
1 33. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, is caused by a disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing
3 organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other
4 micro-organisms.
1 34. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a respiratory disease selected from upper respiratory diseases and lower
3 respiratory diseases.
1 35. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a disease selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually
3 transmitted disease, and other infectious diseases.
1 36. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises an influenza selected from HINI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2,
3 H7N9, and H5N 1.
                                                 Page 126

1 37. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a respiratory disease selected from a disease caused by adenovirus B,
3 adenovirus C. adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
5 streptococcus, and Group B streptococcus.
1 38. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a sexually transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes
3 simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency vrus (HV), streptococcus B, and treponema
4 pallidum.
1 39. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the method is performed at a point-of
2 service (POS) location, wherein a POS location is selected from a retail pharmacy, a
3 supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
1 40. A method for providing a prescription for treatment of an infectious disease in a subject,
2 comprising:
3                  Providing a clinical sample obtained from a subject;
4                  Analyzing said clinical sample at a point--of-service (POS) location, wherein
5 analyzing comprises testing for, or detecting the presence of, a plurality of disease markers,
6 in the clinical sample;
7                  Determining a suitable treatment for a disease indicated by the presence of a
8 marker detected by said analysis; and
9                  Providing a prescription for said suitable treatment.
1 41. The method of claim 40, wherein said clinical sample is obtained from said subject at said
2 point-of-service (POS) location.
1 42. The method of claim 40 or claim 41, wherein said point-of-service (POS) location is
2 selected from a retail pharmacy, a supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
1 43. The method of any of claims 40 to 42, wherein said method is an automatic method.
1 44. The method of any of claims 40 to 43, wherein said prescription is filled at the point-of
2 service (POS) location.
                                                 Page 127

 1 45. The method of any of claims 40 to 44, wherein a bill for said analysis performed at the
 2 point-of-service (POS) location is issued at the POS location.
 1 46. The method of any of claims 40 to 44, wherein a bill for said prescription is issued at the
 2 point-of-service (POS) location.
 1 47. The method of claims 45 or claim 46, wherein said bill is issued automatically.
 1 48. The method of any of claims 45 to 48, wherein the subject carries insurance, and a bill for
 2 said testing or for said prescription is issued to the subject's insurance carrier.
 1 49. The method of claim 48, wherein said bill is issued to the subject's insurance carrier
 2 automatically.
 1 50. The method of any of claims 45 to 49, wherein an automatic payment is made for a bill
 2 for said testing or for said prescription.
 1 51. The method of claim 50, wherein said bill for said testing or for said prescription is an
 2 automatic bill.
 1 52. A method for determining the stage of an infection in a subject suffering from ati
 2 infection, comprising:
 3          Subjecting a sample from said subject to a test for the presence of a nucleic acid
 4 indicative of the infection, and to a test for the presence of an antibody indicative of the
 5 infection, and
 6         Determining whether the relative amounts of the results of the nucleic acid test and
 7 the antibody test indicate that the infection is a recent infection, or not, wherein a) a greater
 8 relative amounts of the results of the nucleic acid test as compared to the relative amounts of
 9 the antibody test indicate the infection is a recent infection, and b) significant amounts of
10 antibody to the infectious agent in the antibody test indicate the infection is not a recent
11 infection.
 1 53. The method of claim 52, wherein said sample is selected from a sample taken from a
 2 throat swab, a cheek swab, saliva, blood, or other sample.
 1 54. The method of clahri 52, wherein said sample is divided into at least two portions.
                                                    Page 128

1 55. The method of claim 52, wherein significant amounts of antibody to the infectious agent
2 are detected, and further wherein nucleic acid markers indicative of the infectious agent are
3 relatively sparse, wherein the infection is in a late stage.
1 56. The method of claim 55, wherein the infection is waning.
1 57. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein the analysis of the sample comprises
2 analysis to determine whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection, a viral infection,
3 a yeast infection, a mycoplasma infection, a fungal infection, other infection, or combination
4 thereof
1 58. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein the analysis of the sample comprises
2 analysis to determine whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral
3 infection.
1 59. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises prescription of an antibiotic when the analysis of the sample determines
3 that the subject suffers from a bacterial infection.
1 60.The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-mycoplasmal drug when the analysis of the
3 sample determines that the subject suffers from a mycoplasmal infection.
1 61. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-viral drug when the analysis of the sample
3 determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1 62. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, when the analysis of the
3 sample determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1 63. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and providing the prescription
3 of an anti-viral drug, when the analysis of the sample determines that the subject suffers from
4 a viral infection.
                                                 Page 129

1 64. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug when the analysis of the sample
3 determines that the subject suffers from a fungal infection.
1 65. The method of any of claims 40 to 51, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug when the analysis of the sample
3 determines that the subject suffers from a yeast infection.
1 66. The method of any of claims 19 to 30, wherein the disease detected is caused by a
2 disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a
3 virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms, and further
4 comprising providing a prescription for the suitable treatment of said virus, bacterium,
5 mycoplasm, fungus, yeast, or other micro-organism.
1 67. The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
2 comprises prescription of an antibiotic when the analysis of the sample determines that the
3 subject suffers from a bacterial infection.
1 68The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
2 comprises the prescription of an anti-mycoplasmal drug when the analysis of the sample
3 determines that the subject suffers from a mycoplasmal infection.
1 69. The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
2 comprises the prescription of an anti-viral drug when the analysis of the sample determines
3 that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1 70. The method of claim 66 wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
2 comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic when the analysis of the sample
3 determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1 71. The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
2 comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and providing the prescription of an anti
3 viral drug, when the analysis of the sample determines that the subject suffers from a viral
4 infection.
                                                  Page 130

 1 72. The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
 2 comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug when the analysis of the sample determines
 3 that the subject suffers from a fungal infection.
 1 73. The method of claim 66, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable treatment
 2 comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug when the analysis of the sample determines
 3 that the subject suffers from a yeast infection.
 1 74. A method of determining the state of response to a disease in a subject, comprising:
 2          a) introducing a clinical sample into a sample processing device, said sample having
 3 been obtained from a subject suspected of suffering from a disease caused by a disease
 4 causing organism, said clinical sample having a volume of no greater than 500 microliters,
 s wherein the device comprises:
 6                   i) a sample handling system;
 7                  ii) a detection station; and
 8                  iii) an assay station comprising at least a first and a second independently
 9 movable assay unit;
10         b) with the aid of the sample handling system, transferring a portion of the clinical
11 sample to each of the first and second assay units, wherein an assay for the detection of a
12 nucleic acid indicative of the disease-causing organism is performed in said first assay unit,
13 and an assay for the detection of antibodies to the disease-causing organism is performed in
14 the second assay unit;
15         c) transferring the first and second assay units to the detection station with the aid of
16 the sample handling system;
17          d) obtaining data measurements with the aid of the detection station, said data
18 measurements comprising determining the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease
19 organism in the sample, and determining the level of antibodies directed to that disease
20 organism in the sample; and
21          e)i) determining that the infection is a recent infection, and in an early stage of the
22 disease, where the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism is high and the level
23 of antibodies directed to that disease organism is low or normal; ii) determining that the
                                                   Page 131

24 infection is not a recent infection, and not in an early stage of the disease, where the level of
25 nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism is high and the level of antibodies directed to
26 that disease organism is high; and iii) determining that the infection is a waning infection, and
27 in a late stage of the disease, where the level of nucleic acid indicative of a disease organism
28 is low or normal, and the level of antibodies directed to that disease organism is high,
29          where a normal level of a marker is the level of that marker determined in a healthy
30 population of normal subjects, where a high level is one that significantly exceeds a normal
31 level as determined in a healthy population of normal subjects, and a low level is one that is
32 below the normal level as determined in a healthy population of normal subjects.
 1 75. The method of determining the state of response to a disease in a subject of claim 74,
 2 further comprising detecting the level of inflammatory cytokines.
 3 76. The method of determining the state of response to a disease in a subject of claim 74
 4 wherein said device further comprises a cytomnetry station comprising an imaging device and
 5 a stage for receiving a microscopy cuvette, the method further comprising imaging a white
 6 blood cell in a blood sample obtained from the subject.
 1 77. The method of claim 76, wherein imaging a white blood cell in a blood sample obtained
 2 from the subject comprises detecting the level of a white blood cell type in a blood sample
 3 obtained from the subject, and determining whether said detected level of said type of white
 4 blood cell is above, at, or below a normal level for that type of blood cell, wherein the normal
 5 level for that type of white blood cell is determined by the level of that type of white blood
 6 cell in blood samples from a healthy population.
 1 78. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location.
 1 79. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location, and wherein the clinical sample is obtained at the
 3 point of service location.
 1 80. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location, and wherein the methods are used in analyzing a
 3 clinical sample at said point-of-service location.
                                                   Page 132

1 81. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, comprising point-of service methods performed at
2 a point-of-service location, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality of assays on a
3 single small volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof
1 82. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, comprising point-of service methods performed at
2 a point-of-service location, wherein the methods may be performed in a short period of time.
1  83. The method of any of claims 74 to 77, comprising point-of service methods performed at
2 a point-of-service location, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality of assays on a
3 single small volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof, and may be performed in a short
4 period of time.
1 84. The method of any of claims 74 to 83, wherein the methods are performed on a small
2 volume clinical sample, wherein said small volume comprises a volurie selected from
3 volumes less than about 500 pLI, less than about 250 pL, less than 150 pLi, less than about
4  100 pL, less than about 50 pL, less than about 25 pL, less than about 10 pL, less than about 5
5 pL, and less than about I pL.
1 85. The method of any of claims 74 to 84, wherein the methods are performed in a short
2 period of time, wherein a short time period comprises a period of timne of less than about three
3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about 50 minutes, or
4 less than about 45 minutes, or less than about 40 minutes, or less than about 30 minutes, or
5 less than about 20 minutes, or less than about 15 minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or
6 less than about 5 minutes, or less than about 4 minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less
7 than about 2 minutes, or less than about I minute.
1 86. The method of any of claims 74 to 85, wherein the method is performed at a point-of
2 service (POS) location, wherein a POS location is selected from a retail pharmacy, a
3 supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
1 87. The method of any of claims 74 to 86, wherein the method comprises an automatic
2 method.
1 88. The method of any of claims 74 to 87, comprising testing for, or detecting, a disease
2 marker selected from a saccharide, a prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a
3 marker for inflammation.
                                                 Page 133

1 89. The method of claim 88, wherein the disease marker is a marker for inflannation
2 selected from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin-1 (IL-1),
3 interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin,
4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
6 other cells.
1 90. The method of any of claims 74 to 89, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, is caused by a disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing
3 organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other
4 micro-organisms.
1 91. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a respiratory disease selected from upper respiratory diseases and lower
3 respiratory diseases.
1 92. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a disease selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually
3 transmitted disease, and other infectious diseases.
1 93. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises an influenza selected from HINI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2,
3 H7N9, and H5N 1.
1 94. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a respiratory disease selected from a disease caused by adenovirus B,
3 adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
5 streptococcus, and Group B streptococcus.
1 95. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the disease tested for, or the disease
2 detected, comprises a sexually transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes
3 simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), streptococcus B, and treponemna
4 pallidum.
                                                Page 134

 1 96. The method of any of claims 74 to 90, wherein the method is performed at a point-of
 2 service (POS) location, wherein a POS location is selected from a retail pharmacy, a
 3 supermarket, a clinic, a hospital, and a doctor's office.
 1         97.     A method of detecting at least one nucleic acid disease marker in a clinical
 2 sample, comprising:
 3         a) introducing a sample into an automatic sample processing device configured for
 4 performing immunoassays and nucleic acid amplification assays, wherein said automatic
 5 sample processing device comprises:
 6                 i) a sample handling system configured to transport at least a portion of a
 7 sample;
 8                 ii) a reagent for use in a nucleic acid amplification assay that does not require
 9 thermal cycling; and
10                 iii) a detector;
11         b) performing a nucleic acid amplification reaction for the detection of a nucleic acid
12 disease marker in said sample, or an aliquot thereof, wherein said performing comprises
13 contacting at least a portion of said sample, or aliquot thereof, with a nucleic acid
14 amplification reagent and amplifying said nucleic acid disease marker without thermal
15 cycling, wherein said nucleic acid disease marker comprises a template region, and wherein
16 said nucleic acid amplification reagent comprises a nucleic acid polymerase, a first primer
17 and a second primer, said primers having template-binding regions and having tail regions,
18 wherein said primer template-binding regions are complementary to at least a portion of said
19 template region of the nucleic acid disease marker, and wherein said tail region of said first
20 primer is complementary to said tail region of said second primer;
21         c) obtaining data measurements with the aid of said detection station; and
22         e) detecting at least one nucleic acid disease marker.
 1         98.     The method of claim 97, comprising detecting two or more nucleic acid
 2 disease markers in said sample, or inone or more aliquots thereof, wherein said detecting
 3 comprises amplification of two or more nucleic acid disease markers without thermal cycling.
 1         99,     The method of claim 97, further comprising performing an immunoassay for
 2 the detection of a further disease marker in said sample, or in one or more aliquots thereof,
                                                   Page 135

3 wherein said further disease marker is other than a nucleic acid disease marker.
1          100.  The method of claim 97, wherein said measurements are obtained over a
2 period of time, and wherein these measurements are indicative of the progress of the nucleic
3 acid amplification reaction over said period of time.
1          101.  The method of claim 97, wherein said nucleic acid amplification is performed
2 within a moveable assay unit.
1          102.  The method of claim 99, wherein said immunoassay is performed within a
2 moveable assay unit.
1          103.  The method of claim 99, wherein both said nucleic acid assay and said
2 immunoassay are performed within a moveable assay unit.
1          104.  The method of claim 97, wherein said sample handling system is configured to
2 transport a moveable assay unit.
1          105.  The method of claim 97, wherein said clinical sample is a small-volume
2 clinical sample having a volume of less than about 500 microliters.
1          106.  The method of claim 97, wherein the method is a point-of service (POS)
2 method performed at a POS location.
1          107,  The method of claim 106, comprising point-of-service (POS) methods
2 performed at a POS location, wherein the detection of the disease marker is performed in less
3 than about 40 minutes.
1          108.  The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 nucleic acid marker selected from the group consisting of an inflammatory marker for
3 infectious disease, an influenza marker, a marker for an upper respiratory disease, a marker
4 for a lower respiratory disease, and a marker for a sexually transmitted disease.
1          109.  The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 nucleic acid marker for a respiratory disease selected from the group consisting of adenovirus
3 B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
5 streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes,
6 Haem ophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneum o Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza
7 Virus 1, Parainfluetiza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus
8 NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia
                                                Page 136

9 phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
1          110.   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 nucleic acid marker for a disease caused by a disease-causing agent selected from adenovirus
3 B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
5 streptococcus, and Group B streptococcus.
I          11L.   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises an
2 influenza marker.
1          112.   The method of claim 111, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises
2 an influenza marker selected from a marker for HINI (seasonal) influenza, HINI (novel)
3 influenza, a marker for H3N2 influenza, a marker for H7N9 influenza, a marker for H5NI
4 influenza, and a nucleic acid sequence encoding an influenza matrix protein or portion
5 thereof.
1          113,   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 marker for a sexually transmitted disease.
1          114.   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 marker for a sexually transmitted disease, wherein the disease is caused by an agent selected
3 from the group consisting of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2,
4 Group B, HIV-I Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV),
5 streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
1          115.   The method of claim 9 7, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 marker for a disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing agents
3 consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, and a yeast.
1          116.   The method of claim 99, comprising detecting two or more markers for
2 disease-causing agents, wherein said markers are indicative of two or more disease-causing
3 agents selected from a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasmn, a fungus, and a yeast.
1          117.   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) marker.
1          118.   The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
2 marker for a Staphylococcus bacterium.
1           119.  The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
                                               Page 137

 2 marker for a Staphylococcus bacterium selected from a Staphylococcus aureus and
 3 Methycillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
 1         120,    The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
 2 marker for a Streptococcus bacterium.
 1         121.    The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
 2 marker for a Corona virus.
 1         122.    The method of claim 99, comprising detecting two or more markers for
 2 Corona viruses.
 1         123.    The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
 2 nucleic acid disease marker for a disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of
 3 West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium,     Trypanosotna cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
 1         124.    The method of claim 99, comprising detecting two or more markers for
 2 disease-causing agents selected from the group consisting of West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr
 3 Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
 1         125.    The method of claim 97, wherein the nucleic acid disease marker comprises a
 2 nucleic acid disease marker for a disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of
 3 Influenza A Matrix protein, Influenza H3N2, Influenza H IN I seasonal, Influenza H1 IN 1
 4 novel,   Influenza B, Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis,
 5 Staphylococcus aureus (MR), Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping
 6 cough), Streptococcus agalactiae (B), Influenza H5Nl, Influenza H7N9, Adenovirus B,
 7 Adenovirus C, Adenovirus E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c, Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidum,
 8 HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1, HIV-2,        Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West
 9 Nile Virus, Trypanosoma cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp),
10 Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus,
11 Parainfluenza virus (1),   Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus
12 (4a), Parainfluenza virus (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial
13 virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus HKUl, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus
14 NL63, Novel Coronavirus, Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus (HMPV), Streptococcus
15 pneumoniae (penic R), Streptococcus pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia
16 pneumoniae, Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influenza (amnpic R), Haemophilus
17 influenzae (ampic S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), Haemnophilus
18 parainfluenzae, Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes
                                                 Page 138

19 (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter
20 baumanii, Legionella spp, Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia trachomatis, Human
21 Papillona Virus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, plasmodium,       and Trichomonas (vagin).
 1          126.   The method of claim 99, comprising detecting two or more markers for
 2 disease-causing agents, wherein the two or more disease markers are selected from the group
 3 of markers for disease-causing agents consisting of Influenza A Matrix protein, Influenza
 4 1-13N2, Influenza H INNI seasonal, Influenza 1-11N1 novel,    Influenza B, Streptococcus
 5 pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR), Staphylococcus
 6 aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough). Streptococcus agalactiae (B), Influenza
 7 H5N1, Influenza H7N9, Adenovirus B, A denovirus C, Adenovirus E,           -epatitis b, Hepatitis
 S c, Hepatitis deha, Treponema pallidurn, HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1, HIV-2,          Dengue 1, Dengue
 9 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella
10 pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein
11 Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (1), Parainfluenza virus (2),
12 Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus (4b), Respiratory
13 syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus 229E,
14 Coronavirus HKL 1, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus, Bocavirus,
15 human metapneumovirus (HMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R), Streptococcus
16 pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Bordetella parpertussis,
17 Haemophilus influenza (anpic R), Haemophilus influenzae (ampic S), Moraxella
18 catarrhais, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Enterobacter
19 cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogeties (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Serratia
20 marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp, Escherichia
21 coli, Candida, Chlamydia trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
22 plasmodium, and Trichomotias (vagin).
 1          127.   A method of detecting a disease marker, comprising:
 2                 a) introducing a cartridge into an automatic sample processing device, said
 3 cartridge comprising a sample and a swab, wherein said automatic sample processing device
 4 comprises:
 5                         i) a sample handling system configured to transport said sample and
 6 for use with one or more independently movable assay units; and
 7                         ii) an optical detector;
                                                    Page 139

 8                 b) transferring said sample, or an aliquot thereof, to an assay unit for the
 9  performance of an assay for the detection of a disease marker, said transferring being
.10 performed with the aid of said sample handling system;
11                 c) transferring said assay unit to a position suitable for detection of an optical
12  signal from the assay unit by said optical detector;
13                 d) performing an assay for the detection of a disease marker; and
14                  e) detecting the presence of a disease marker.
  1          128.  The method of claim 127, comprising performing two or more assays for the
 2  detection of disease markers, and detecting two or more disease markers in said sample, or in
 3  one or more aliquots thereof.
  1          129.  The method of claim 127, wherein said sample has a volume of less than about
 2  500 microliters.
  1          130.  The method of claim 127, wherein said sample was obtained using said swab.
  1          131.  The method of claim 130, wherein said sample comprises a sample obtained
 2  from the throat or mouth of a subject.
  1          132.  The method of claim 130, wherein said sample comprises a sample obtained
 2  from a nasal passage of a subject.
  1          133.  The method of claim 127, wherein said sample comprises a blood sample.
  1          134.  The method of claim 128, comprising detecting the presence of a nucleic acid
 2  disease marker and a protein disease marker.
  1          135,  The method of claim 127, comprising a first sample and a second sample,
 2  wherein said first sample comprises a sample obtained using said swab, and said second
 3  sample comprises a blood sample.
  1          136.  The method of claim 135, comprising performing two or more assays, and
 2  detecting the presence of a nucleic acid disease marker and a protein disease marker.
  1          137.  The method of claim 127, wherein detecting the presence of a disease marker
 2  comprises detecting a disease marker selected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein
 3  disease marker, a saccharide, a prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker
 4  for inflammation.
                                                   Page 140

 1           138.    The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for
 2 inflammation selected from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin
 3  1 (IL-1), interleukin-8 (11-8), interleukin- 12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-v) bradykinin,
 4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
 5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
 6 other cells.
 1           139.    The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a
 3 virus, a bacterium, a nmycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms.
 1           140.    The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of Influenza A Matrix protein,
 3 Influenza H3N2, Influenza HINI seasonal, Influenza HIN 1 novel, Influenza B,
 4 Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR),
 5 Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), Streptococcus
 6 agalactiae (B), Influenza H5N1, Influenza H7N9, Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus
 7 E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c, Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidum, HSV- 1, HSV-2, HIV- 1,
 S HIV-2, Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma
 9 cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae
10 carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus (nono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (1),
11 Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Paraiflueiza virus
12 (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus
13 229E, Coronavirus HKU 1,Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus,
14 Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus (HMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R),
15 Streptococcus pieumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlainydia pneumoniae,
16 Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influenzae (ampic R), Haemophilus influenza (ampic
17 S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), Haenmophilus parainfluenzae,
18 Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes (Enmerobacteriaceae
19 spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumiianii, Legionella spp,
20 Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria
21 gonorrhocae, plasmodium, and Trichomonas vagina) .
 1           141.    The method of claim 128, comprising detecting two or more disease markers,
 2 wherein one of said disease markers is a marker for inflammation, and one of said disease
 3 markers a marker for a disease-causing agent.
                                                    Page 141

1          142.   The method of claim 141, wherein said disease marker for inflammation is
2 selected from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-aG), interleukin-I (IL-1),
3 interleukin-S (IL-8) interleukin- 12 (IL1-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin,
4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
6 other cells, and said disease marker for a disease-causing agent is selected from the group of
7 disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasma, a fungus, a yeast,
8 and other micro-organisms.
1          143.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a disease
2 selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another
3 infectious disease.
1          144.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for an
2 influenza selected from H INI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2, -17N9, and 115N1.
1          145.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
2 respiratory disease selected from an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
1          146.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a respiratory disease
2 marker for a disease-causing organisn selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B,
3 adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
5 streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes,
6 Haem ophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneum o Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza
7 Virus 1, Paraiifluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus
8 NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU1, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia
9 phoE, Klebsielia pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
1          147.   The method of claim 128, comprising detecting two or more disease markers
2 indicative of respiratory diseases, wherein said disease markers are markers for disease
3 causing organisms selected from two or more of the group consisting of adenovirus B,
4 adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB),
5 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
6 streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxeila catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes,
7 Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneumo Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza
8 Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus
                                                 Page 142

 9 NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKtI, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia
10 phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1          148.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 sexually transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes simplex virus (iSV),
 3 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- I Group M,
 4 Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema
 5 pallidum.
 1          149.   The method of claim 128, comprising detecting two or more disease markers
 2 indicative of sexually transmitted diseases caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
 3 immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- 1 Group M, Hepatitis
 4 B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
 1          150.   The method of claim 127, wherein the disease marker is a marker for an
 2 infectious disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of West Nile Virus,
 3 Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
 1          151,   The method of claim 127, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location.
 1          152.   The method of claim 127, wherein the method may be performed in less than
 2 about 40 minutes.
 1          153.   The method of claim 135, wherein the method may be performed in less than
 2 about 40 minutes.
 1          154.   The method of claim 128, comprising performing a plurality of assays on a
 2 single small-volume sample, or on aliquots thereof, in less than about 40 minutes.
 1          155.   The method of claim 127, wherein detecting the presence of a disease marker
 2 comprises amplification of a nucleic acid disease marker without thermal cycling.
 1          156.   The method of claim 135, wherein detecting the presence of a disease marker
 2 comprises amplification of a nucleic acid disease marker without thermal cycling in said first
 3 sample, or in said second sample, or in both said first and said second sample.
 1          157.   A method of detecting the presence of at least one disease marker in a sample,
 2 or an aliquot thereof, comprising:
 3                 a) introducing a sample into an automatic sample processing device, wherein
 4 said automatic sample processing device is configured to perform nucleic acid assays,
                                                 Page 143

 5 immunoassays, general chemistry assays, and cytometric assays, wherein said automatic
 6 sample processing device comprises:
 7                          i) a sample handling system;
 8                         ii) at least one detector; and
 9                         ii) a cvtometrv station comprising an imaging device and a stage for
10 receiving a microscopy cuvette;
11                 b) transferring a portion of the sample to each of a plurality of assay units with
12 the aid of the sample handling system;
13                 c) performing an assay for the detection of at least one disease markers in the
14 sample, or an aliquot thereof,
15                 d) detecting a signal from at least one assay selected from a nucleic acid assay,
16 an immunoassay, and a general chemistry assay, said assay being performed on the sample,
17 or on an aliquot thereof;
18                 e) obtaining an image of the sample, or an aliquot thereof, with said
19 cytonetric station; and
20                 f) detecting the presence of at least one disease marker in the sample, or in an
21 aliquot thereof.
 1         158,    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of at least two
 2 disease markers in the sample, or in an aliquot or aliquots thereof.
 1         159.    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of at least three
 2 disease markers in the sample, or in an aliquot or aliquots thereof,
 1         160.    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of at least two
 2 disease markers in the sample, or in an aliquot or aliquots thereof, wherein said detecting
 3 comprises detecting at least one disease marker using the cytometry station, and detecting at
 4 least one disease marker using a detector.
 1         161.    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of at least three
 2 disease markers in the sample, or an aliquot or aliquots thereof, wherein said detecting
 3 comprises detecting at least one disease marker using a cytometry station, and detecting at
 4 least two disease markers using a detector.
 1         162.    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of a nucleic acid
 2 disease marker, a protein disease marker, and a cell morphology disease marker in the
 3 sample, or in an aliquot or aliquots thereof
                                                    Page 144

1          163.    The method of claim 157, wherein detecting the presence of a disease marker
2 comprises detecting a disease marker selected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein
3 disease marker, a saccharide, a prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker
4 for inflammation.
1          164.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for
2 inflammation selected from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a),
3 interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y),
4 bradykinin, a complement system molecule, a blood--clotting factor, C-reactive protein,
5 erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and a morphological change in
6 a blood or other cell.
1          165.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for
2 inflammation selected from a lymphokine, a cheinokine, an interleukin, and an interferon.
1          166.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
2 disease-causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a
3 virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms.
1          167.    The method of claim 157, comprising detecting two or more disease markers,
2 wherein one of said disease markers is a marker for inflammation, and one of said disease
3 markers a marker for a disease-causing agent.
1          168.    The method of claim 167, wherein said disease marker for inflammation is
2 selected from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), an interleukin, an
3 interferon, bradykinin, a lymphokine, a chemokine, a complement system molecule, a blood
4 clotting factor, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell
5 count, and a morphological change in a blood or other cell; and said disease marker for a
6 disease-causing agent is selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a
7 virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms.
1          169,    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a disease
2 selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another
3 infectious disease.
1          170.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for an
2 influenza selected from H INI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2, H17N9, and 115N1.
1          171.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
                                                 Page 145

 2  respiratory disease selected from an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
 1           172.   The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2  respiratory disease selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C,
 3  adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus
 4  aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group
 5  B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae,
 6  Metapneuno Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
 7  Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63. Coronavirus MERS,
 S  Coronavirus HKU 1, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia
 9  KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1           173.   The method of claim 158, comprising detecting two or more disease markers
 2  indicative of respiratory diseases, wherein said disease markers are selected from two or more
 3  of the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis,
 4  mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
 5  Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella
 6  catarrhais, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneumo Virus,
 7  Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus     1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus
 8  3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKUI,
 9  Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiela pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type
10  2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1           164.   The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2  sexually transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV),
 3  human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV-I Group M,
 4  Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema
 5  pallidum.
 1           165.   The method of claim 158, comprising detecting two or more disease markers
 2  indicative of sexually transmitted diseases caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
 3  immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- 1 Group M, Hepatitis
 4  B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
 .1          166.   The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2  disease-causing agent selected from Influenza A Matrix protein, Influenza 113N2, Influenza
 3  H11    seasonal, Influenza H1I novel,      Influenza B, Streptococcus pyogenes (A),
                                                  Page 146

 4 Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR), Staphylococcus aureus (RS),
 5 Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), Streptococcus agalactiae (B), Influenza H5N1,
 6 Influenza H7N9, Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c,
 7 Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidum, HSV-1, HSV-2, HiV-1, HIV-2,         Dengue 1, Dengue 2,
 8 Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella
 9 pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein
10 Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (1), Parainfluenza virus (2),
11 Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus (4b), Respiratory
12 syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus 229E,
13 Coronavirus HKU 1, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus, Bocavirus,
14 human metapneumovirus (HMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R), Streptococcus
15 pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chiamydia pneumoniae, Bordetella parpertussis,
16 Haemophilus influenzae (ampic R), Haemophilus influenzae (ampic S), Moraxella
17 catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Enterobacter
18 cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Serratia
19 marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp, Escherichia
20 coli, Candida, Chlainydia trachonatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
21 plasmodium, and Trichomonas (vagin).
 1         177.    The method of claim 157, wherein the method is a point-of service (POS)
 2 method performed at a POS location.
 1         178.    The method of claim 158, comprising performing a plurality of assays on a
 2 single sample, or on an aliquot or aliquots thereof, wherein said assays are performed in less
 3 than about 40 minutes.
 1         179.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a tuberculosis
 2 (Mycobacteriun tuberculosis) marker.
 1         180.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 Staphylococcus bacterium.
 1         181.    The method of claim 180, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 Staphylococcus bacterium selected from a Staphylococcus aureus and Methycillin-resistant
 3 Staphylococcus aureus.
 1         182.    The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 Streptococcus bacterium.
                                                 Page 147

 1          183.   The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a Corona
 2 virus.
 1          184,   The method of claim 183, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a Coronla
 2 virus selected from Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus HKUi, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus
 3 NL63, and Coronavirus OC43.
 1          185.   The method of claim 157, wherein the disease marker is selected from the
 2 group of disease markers for disease-causing organisms consisting of West Nile Virus,
 3 Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
 1          186.   The method of claim 157, comprising detecting the presence of two disease
 2 markers elected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein disease marker, a saccharide, a
 3 prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker for inflammation.
 1          187.   A method for determining the stage of an infection in a subject suffering from
 2 an infection, comprising:
 3                 Testing at least one sample, or an aliquot or aliquots thereof, obtained from
 4 said subject 1) for the presence of a nucleic acid indicative of the infection, and 2) for the
 5 presence of an antibody indicative of the infection, and
 6                 Determining whether the relative amounts of the results of the nucleic acid test
 7 and the antibody test indicate that the infection is a recent infection, or not, wherein a) a
 8 greater relative amount of the results of the nucleic acid test as compared to the relative
 9 amount of the antibody test indicate that the infection is a recent infection, and b) a
10 significant amount of antibody to the infectious agent in the antibody test indicate the
11 infection is not a recent infection.
 1          188.   The method of claim 187, wherein the at least one sample is selected from a
 2 throat swab sample, a cheek swab sample, nasal swab sample, a saliva sample, and a blood
 3 sample.
 1          189.    The method of claim 187, wherein a sample is divided into at least two
 2 portions.
 1          190.   The method of claim 187, wherein a significant amount of antibody to the
 2 infectious agent is detected, and further wherein nucleic acid markers indicative of the
 3 infectious agent are relatively sparse, wherein the infection is in a late stage.
 1          191.   The method of claim 190, wherein the infection is waning.
                                                  Page 148

1             192.   The method of claim 187, comprising testing said sample for a marker for
2    inflammation.
1             193,   The method of claim 192, wherein the marker for inflammation is selected
2    from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin- I (IL-1), interleukin-8
3    (IL-8), interleukin- 12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin, a complement system
4    molecule, a blood-clotting factor, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
5    white blood cell count, and a morphological change in a blood or other cell.
1             194.   The method of claim 192, wherein the marker for inflammation is a cytokine
2    selected from a lymphokine, a chemokine, an interleukin, and an interferon.
1             195.   The method of claim 187, wherein said testing comprises testing to determine
2    whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection, a viral infection, a yeast infection, a
3    mycoplasma infection, a fungal infection, other infection, or combination thereof.
1             196.   The method of claim 187, wherein said testing comprises analysis to
2    detennine whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral infection.
1             197.   The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2    treatment comprises prescription of an antibiotic when the testing determines that the subject
3    suffers from a bacterial infection.
1             198.   The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2    treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-mycoplasmal drug when the testing
3    determines that the subject suffers from a mycoplasmal infection.
1             199.   The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2    treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-viral drug when the testing determines that the
3    subject suffers from a viral infection.
 S200,               The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2    treatment comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, when the testing determines
3    that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1            201.    The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2    treatment comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and providing the prescription
3    of an anti-viral drug, when the testing determines that the subject suffers from a viral
4    infection.
1            202.    The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
                                                    Page 149

2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug when the testing determines that
3 the subject suffers from a fungal infection.
1           03,   The method of claim 187, wherein providing a prescription for said suitable
2 treatment comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug when the testing determines that
3 the subject suffers from a yeast infection.
1         204.    The method of claim 187, wherein the disease detected is caused by a disease
2 causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a
3 bacterium a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms, and further
4 comprising providing a prescription for the suitable treatment of said virus, bacterium,
5 mycoplasm, fungus, yeast, or other micro-organism.
1         205.    The method of claim 187, wherein the method is a point-of service method
2 performed at a point-of-service location.
1          206.   The method of claim 205, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality
2 of assays on a single small-volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof, and may be
3 performed in less than about 40 minutes.
1         207.    The method of claim 187, wherein the infection is caused by a disease selected
2 from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another infectious
3 disease.
1          208,   The method of claim 207, wherein the infection comprises influenza, wherein
2 said influenza is selected from H11: (seasonal), HiNi (novel),      32, H47N9, and H5N1.
1         209.    The method of claim 207, wherein the infection comprises a respiratory
2 disease selected from an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
1         210.    The method of claim 209, wherein the respiratory disease is selected from the
2 group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis,
3 mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
4 Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella
5 catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneumo Virus,
6 Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus
7 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU1,
8 Coronavirus 229E., Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type
9 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
                                                Page 150

 1         21   -  The method of claim 207, wherein the infection comprises a sexually
 2 transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
 3 inmunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- I Group M, Hepatitis
 4 B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (iSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
 1         212.    The method of claim 187, wherein the infection comprises a disease caused by
 2 an infectious disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of Influenza A Matrix
 3 protein, Influenza 1-13N2, Influenza H1INi seasonal, Influenza H11     novel,   Influenza B,
 4 Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR),
 5 Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), Streptococcus
 6 agalactiae (B), Influenza H5NI, Influenza 1-17N9, Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus
 7 E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c, Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidun, HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1,
 8 HIV-2, Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma
 9 cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae
10 carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (I),
11 Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus
12 (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus
13 229E, Coronavirus iKUii 1, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus,
14 Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus (-IMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R),
15 Streptococcus pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae,
16 Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influenza (ampic R), Haemophilus influenzae (ampic
17 S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), iaemophilus parainfluenzae,
18 Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae
19 spp), Seratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp,
20 Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria
21 gonorrhoeae, plasmodium, and Trichomonas (vagin).
 1         213.    The method of claim 197, wherein the bacterial infection comprises an
 2 infection caused by bacteria selected from the group consisting of Bordetella pertussis,
 3 mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
 4 Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella
 5 catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumonia,
 6 Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, and treponema pallidum.
 1         214.    The method of claim 199, wherein the viral infection comprises an infection
 2 caused by a virus selected from the group consisting of an influenza virus, herpes simplex
                                                 Page 151

 3 virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV
 4  1 Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), West Nile Virus,
 5 Epstein-Barr Virus, a Dengue Virus, adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Metapneumo
 6 Virus, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus
 7 OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU, Coronavirus 229E,
 8 Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1         215.    The method of claim 214, wherein the viral infection comprises influenza,
 2 wherein said influenza is selected from HINI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2. H7N9, and
 3 H5N1.
 1         216.    The method of claim 214, wherein the viral infection comprises a Dengue
 2 virus, wherein said Dengue virus is selected from Dengue virus type 1, Dengue virus type 2,
 3 Dengue virus type 3, and Dengue virus type 4.
 1         217.    A method of detecting a disease marker, comprising:
 2                 a) introducing a cartridge comprising one or more samples into an automatic
 3 sample processing device, said cartridge being configured to hold at least one sample and
 4 being configured to hold a swab, wherein said automatic sample processing device
 5 comprises:
 6                         i) a sample handling system configured to transport at least a portion of
 7 a sample and being configured to transport an independently movable assay unit; and
 8                         ii) an optical detector;
 9                 b) contacting a sample, or a portion thereof, with a movable assay unit, or a
10 reagent, or both, for the performance of an assay for the detection of a disease marker, said
11 contacting comprising transporting, with the aid of said sample handling system, at least a
12 portion of said sample, or a movable assay unit, or a reagent, or combinations thereof;
13                 c) positioning said sample, or portion thereof, at a location suitable for
14 detection of an optical signal from the sample or portion thereof by said optical detector; and
15                 d) detecting the presence of a disease marker.
 1         218.    The method of claim 217, comprising performing two or more assays for the
 2 detection of disease markers, and detecting two or more disease markers in said one or more
 3 samples, or in one or more portions thereof.
 1         219.    The method of claim 217, wherein said one or more samples comprises a
 2 blood sample.
 1         220.    The method of claim 217, wherein said one or more samples comprises a
                                                    Page 152

2 sample obtained using said swab.
1          221.     The method of claim 220, wherein said sample obtained using said swab was
2 obtained by swabbing a mouth, a throat, a nasal passage, a vaginal area, or other body cavity
3 of a subject.
1          222.     The method of claim 2 17, comprising a first sample and a second sample,
2 wherein said first sample comprises a sample obtained using said swab, and said second
3 sample comprises a blood sample.
1          223.     The method of claim 217, comprising detecting the presence of a nucleic acid
2 disease marker and a protein disease marker.
1          224      The method of claim 217, wherein said sample has a volume of less than about
2 500 microliters.
1          225.     The method of claim 222, comprising performing two or more assays for the
2 detection of disease markers, and detecting two or more disease markers in said samples, or
3 in one or more portions thereof.
1          226.     The method of claim 225, comprising detecting the presence of a nucleic acid
2 disease marker and a protein disease marker.
1          2)7      The method of claim 217, wherein said disease marker is selected from a
2 nucleic acid disease marker, a protein disease marker, a saccharide, a prostaglandin, a
3 cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker for inflammation.
1          228.     The method of claim 225, wherein said two or more disease markers are
2 selected from a nucleic acid disease marker, a protein disease marker, a saccharide, a
3 prostaglandin, a cytokine, histamine, a steroid, and a marker for inflammation.
1          229.     The method of claim 217, wherein said disease marker is a marker for
2 inflammation selected from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin
3  1 (IL-I), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin- 12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-7), bradykinin,
4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
6 other cells.
1          230.     The method of claim 217, wherein said disease marker is a marker for a
2 disease-causing agent, wherein said disease-causing agen is selected from the group of
3 disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast,
4 and other micro-organisms.
1          231.     The method of claim 2 17, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
2 disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of Influenza A Matrix protein,
                                                   Page 153

 3 Influenza 13N2, Influenza H IN I seasonal, Influenza 1-11N1 novel, Influenza B,
 4 Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR),
 5 Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), Streptococcus
 6 agalactiae (B), Influenza H5NI, Influenza 1-17N9, Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus
 7 E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c, Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidum, HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1,
 8 HIV-2, Dengue 1, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus., Trypanosoma
 9 cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceac spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae
10 carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (I),
11 Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainflucnza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus
12 (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus
13 229E, Coronavirus iKU 1, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus,
14 Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus (-IMPV), Streptococcus pneutnoniae (penic R),
15 Streptococcus pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasna pneumoniae, Chlanydia pneumoniae,
16 Bordetella parpertussis, Haeinophilus influenzae (ampic R), Hacinophilus influenzae (ampic
17 S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), iaemophilus parainfluenzae,
18 Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae
19 spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp,
20 Escherichia coli, Candida, Chlamydia trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria
21 gonorrhoeae, plasmodium, and Trichomonas (vagin).
 1         232.    The method of claim 225, comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood
 2 sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein one of said
 3 disease markers is a marker for inflanmation, and one of said disease markers a marker for a
 4 disease-causing agent.
 1         233.    The method of claim 232, wherein said disease marker for inflammation is
 2 selected from prostaglandins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), interleukin-I (IL-1),
 3  iterleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interferon gamma (IF-y), bradykinin,
 4 complement system molecules, blood-clotting factors, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
 5 sedimentation rate (ESR), white blood cell count, and morphological changes in blood and
 6 other cells, and said disease marker for a disease-causing agent is selected from the group of
 7 disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a bacterium, a mycoplastn, a fungus, a yeast,
 8 and other micro-organisms.
 1         234     The method of claim 227, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a disease
 2 selected from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another
 3 infectious disease.
                                                  Page 154

 1         235.    The method of claim 217, wherein the disease marker is a marker for an
 2 influenza selected from HINI (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and H5NI.
 1         2.36.   The method of claim 217, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 respiratory disease selected from an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
 1         237.    The method of claim 2 17, wherein the disease marker is a respiratory disease
 2 marker for a disease-causing organism selected from the group consisting of adenovirus B,
 3 adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB).
 4 Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A
 5 streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes,
 6 Haenophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneum o Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza
 7 Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus
 S NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU1l, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia
 9 phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1         238.    The method of claim 225, comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood
 2 sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one
 3 of said disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing organism indicative of a respiratory
 4 disease selected front the group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E,
 5 Bordetella pertussis, mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus,
 6 Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B
 7 streptococcus, Moraxella catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae,
 8 Metapneuno Virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
 9 Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS,
10 Coronavirus HKIJi, Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia
11 KPC, Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1         239,    The method of claim 217, wherein the disease marker is a marker for a
 2 disease-causing organism indicative of a sexually transmitted disease selected from herpes
 3 simplex virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group
 4 B, HIV-I Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus
 5 B, and treponema pallidum.
 1         240.    The method of claim 225, comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood
 2 sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one
 3 of said disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing organism indicative of a sexually
 4 transmitted disease selected from herpes simplex virus (IHSV), human immunodeficiency
 5 virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- 1 Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta,
                                                 Page 155

 6 herpes simplex virus (I-ISV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
 1         241.    The method of claim 217, wherein the disease marker is a marker for an
 2 infectious disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of West Nile Virus,
 3 Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodium, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a Dengue Virus.
 1         242.    The method of claim 225, comprising detecting a disease marker in a blood
 2 sample and detecting a disease marker in a sample obtained from a swab, wherein at least one
 3 of said disease markers is a marker for a disease-causing agent selected from the group
 4 consisting of West Nile Virus, Epstein-Barr Virus, plasmodiwn, Trypanosoma cruzi, and a
 5 Dengue Virus.
 1         2.43.   The method of claim 217, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location.
 1         244.    The method of claim 222, wherein the method is a point-of service method
 2 performed at a point-of-service location.
 1         245.    The method of claim 217, wherein the method may be performed in less than
 2 about 40 minutes.
 1         246.    The method of claim 222, wherein the method may be performed in less than
 2 about 40 minutes.
 1         247,    A method of determining the stage of an infection in a subject suffering from
 2 an infection, comprising:
 3                 Testing at least one sample, or an aliquot or aliquots thereof, obtained from
 4 said subject 1) for the presence of a nucleic acid indicative of the infection, and 2) for the
 5 presence of an antibody indicative of the infection, and
 6                 Determining whether the relative amounts of a) nucleic acids indicative of the
 7  ifection and b) antibodies indicative of the infection indicate that the infection is a recent
 8 infection, wherein i) a greater relative amount of the nucleic acids indicative of the infection
 9 as compared to the relative amount of the antibodies indicative of the infection indicate that
10 the infection is a recent infection, and ii) a significant amount of antibodies to the infectious
11 agent indicate the infection is not a recent infection.
 1         2.48.   The method of claim 247, wherein the at least one sample comprises a blood
 2 sample.
 1         249.     The method of claim 247, wherein the at least one sample comprises a sample
 2 selected front a throat swab sample, a cheek swab sample, nasal swab sample, a saliva
                                                    Page 156

3 sample, and a blood sample.
1          2.50.  The method of claim 247, wherein a significant amount of antibody to the
2 infectious agent is detected, and further wherein nucleic acid markers indicative of the
3 infectious agent are relatively sparse, wherein the infection is in a late stage.
1         251.    The method of claim 247, comprising testing said sample for a marker for
2 inflannation.
1          252.   The method of claim 251, wherein the marker for inflammation is selected
2 from a prostaglandin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-o), interleukin- (IL-I), interleukin- 8
3 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interferon gannna (IF-'y), bradykinin, a complement system
4 molecule, a blood-clotting factor, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
5 white blood cell count, and a morphological change in a blood or other cell.
1         253.    The method of claim 251, wherein the marker for inflanmnation is a cytokine
2 selected from a lymphokine, a chemokine, an interleukin, and an interferon.
1          254.   The method of claim 247, wherein said testing comprises testing to determine
2 whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection, a viral infection, a yeast infection, a
3 mycoplasma infection, a fiungal infection, other infection, or combination thereof.
1         255.    The method of claim 247, wherein said testing comprises determining whether
2 markers indicative of viral infection or markers indicative of bacterial infection are detected,
3 effective to determine whether the subject suffers from a bacterial infection or a viral
4 infection.
1         256.    The method of claim 247, further comprising providing a prescription suitable
2 for treatment of said infection.
1         257.    The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises prescription of an antibiotic when the testing determines
3 that the subject suffers from a bacterial infection.
1         258.    The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-mycoplasmal drug when the
3 testing determines that the subject suffers from a mnycoplasmal infection.
1          259,   The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-viral drug when the testing
3 determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
                                                 Page 157

1         260.    The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, when the
3 testing determines that the subject suffers from a viral infection.
1          261.   The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises avoiding the prescription of an antibiotic, and providing
3 the prescription of an anti-viral drug, when the testing determines that the subject suffers
4 from a viral infection.
1          2.62.  The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-fungal drug when the testing
3 determines that the subject suffers from a fungal infection.
1         263.    The method of claim 256, wherein providing a prescription suitable for
2 treatment of said infection comprises the prescription of an anti-yeast drug when the testing
3 determines that the subject suffers from a yeast infection.
1          264,   The method of claim 247, wherein the disease detected is caused by a disease
2 causing agent selected from the group of disease-causing organisms consisting of a virus, a
3 bacterium, a mycoplasm, a fungus, a yeast, and other micro-organisms, and further
4 comprising providing a prescription for the suitable treatment of said virus, bacterium,
5 mycoplasm, fungus, yeast, or other micro-organism.
1          265    The method of claim 247, wherein the method is a point-of service method
2 performed at a point-of-service location.
1         266.    The method of claim 265, wherein the methods are for performing a plurality
2 of assays on a single small-volume clinical sample, or on aliquots thereof, and may be
3 performed in less than about 40 minutes.
1          267.   The method of claim 247, wherein the infection is caused by a disease selected
2 from influenza, a respiratory disease, a sexually transmitted disease, and another infectious
3 disease.
1         268.    The method of claim 267, wherein the infection comprises influenza, wherein
2 said influenza is selected from HilNi (seasonal), HINI (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and H5N1.
1         269.    The method of claim 267, wherein the infection comprises a respiratory
2 disease selected front an upper respiratory disease and a lower respiratory disease.
1         270.    The method of claim 269, wherein the respiratory disease is selected from the
                                                 Page I58

 2 group consisting of adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Bordetella pertussis,
 3 mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
 4 Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella
 5 catarrhalis, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haem ophilus parainfluenzae, Metapneum o Virus,
 6 Streptococcus pneumonia, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus
 7 3, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKUI,
 8 Coronavirus 229E, Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, Bocavirus type
 9 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1         2.71.   The method of claim 267, wherein the infection comprises a sexually
 2 transmitted disease selected from a disease caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV), human
 3 immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV- 1 Group M, Hepatitis
 4 B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), streptococcus B, and treponema pallidum.
 1         272.    The method of claim 247, wherein the infection comprises a disease caused by
 2 an infectious disease-causing agent selected from the group consisting of Influenza A Matrix
 3 protein, Influenza H3N2, Influenza HINI seasonal, Influenza H INI novel,         influenza B,
 4 Streptococcus pyogenes (A), Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Staphylococcus aureus (MR),
 5 Staphylococcus aureus (RS), Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough), Streptococcus
 6 agalactiae (B), Influenza H5N 1, Influenza H7N9, Adenovirus B, Adenovirus C, Adenovirus
 7 E, Hepatitis b, Hepatitis c, Hepatitis delta, Treponema pallidun, HSV-1, HSV-2, HIV-1,
 8 HIV-2, Dengue I, Dengue 2, Dengue 3, Dengue 4, Malaria, West Nile Virus, Trypanosoma
 9 cruzi (Chagas), Klebsiella pneumoniae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Klebsiella pneumoniae
10 carbapenemase (KPC), Epstein Barr Virus (mono), Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus (J),
11 Parainfluenza virus (2), Parainfluenza virus (3), Parainfluenza virus (4a), Parainfluenza virus
12 (4b), Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) A, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) B, Coronavirus
13 229E, Coronavirus HKUI, Coronavirus OC43, Coronavirus NL63, Novel Coronavirus,
14 Bocavirus, human metapneumovirus (HMPV), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penic R),
15 Streptococcus pneumoniae (S), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae,
16 Bordetella parpertussis, Haemophilus influcnzae (ampic R), Haemophilus influenzae (ampic
17 S), Moraxella catarrhalis, Pseudomonas spp (aeruginosa), Haemophilus parainfluenzae,
18 Enterobacter cloacae (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Enterobacter aerogenes (Enterobacteriaceae
19 spp), Serratia marcescens (Enterobacteriaceae spp), Acinetobacter baumanii, Legionella spp,
20 Escherichia coli, Candida, Chilanydia trachomatis, Human Papilloma Virus, Neisseria
21 gonorrhoeae, plasmodium, and Trichomonas (vagin).
                                                 Page 159

 1         273.   The method of claim 257, wherein the bacterial infection comprises an
 2 infection caused by bacteria selected from the group consisting of Bordetella pertussis,
 3 mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), Staphylococcus aureus, Methicillin-Resistant
 4 Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Group A streptococcus, Group B streptococcus, Moraxella
 5 catarrhais, Enterobacter aerogenes, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumonia,
 6 Klibsiella pneumonia phoE, Klebsiella pneumonia KPC, and treponema pallidum.
 7         274.   The method of claim 259, wherein the viral infection comprises an infection
 8 caused by a virus selected from the group consisting of an influenza virus, herpes simplex
 9 virus (HSV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HIV-2 Group A, HIV-2 Group B, HIV
10 1 Group M, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis Delta, herpes simplex virus (HSV), West Nile Virus,
11 Epstein-Barr Virus, a Dengue Virus, adenovirus B, adenovirus C, adenovirus E, Metapneumo
12 Virus, Parainfluenza Virus 1. Parainfluenza Virus 2, Parainfluenza Virus 3, Coronavirus
13 OC43, Coronavirus NL,63, Coronavirus MERS, Coronavirus HKU 1, Coronavirus 229E,
14 Bocavirus type 2,4, and Bocavirus type 1,3.
 1         275.   The method of claim 274, wherein the viral infection comprises influenza,
 2 wherein said influenza is selected from H1INI (seasonal), H INI (novel), H3N2, H7N9, and
 3 H5N1.
 1         276.   The method of claim 274, wherein the viral infection comprises a Dengue
 2 virus, wherein said Dengue virus is selected from Dengue virus type 1, Dengue virus type 2,
 3 Dengue virus type 3, and Dengue virus type 4.
                                        Theranos, Inc.
                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                Page 160

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
