                                ABSTRACT
    The invention discloses a quick tensioning mechanism used in a
woodworking band sawing machine and a woodworking band sawing
machine using thereof, wherein the quick tensioning mechanism
comprises a tensioning bracket,       a tensioning assembly, a cam
assembly, a guiding element and an upper shaft assembly. The
tensioning bracket is fixed to a body of the woodworking band sawing
machine; the tensioning assembly is capable of passing through the
tensioning bracket and is capable of moving upwardly or downwardly
relative to the tensioning bracket; the cam assembly is connected to
the tensioning assembly, when said cam assembly is driven, the
tensioning assembly may be lifted or be released; the guiding element
is connected to the tensioning assembly and is capable of moving
synchronously with the tensioning assembly, and the guiding element
is connected to the tensioning bracket and is capable of moving
upwardly or downwardly relative to the tensioning bracket; the upper
shaft assembly is connected to the guiding element and is capable of
swinging around an axis of the guiding element, wherein the upper
shaft   assembly   is connected    to  an   upper   saw  wheel   of the
woodworking band sawing machine, thereby the upper saw wheel of
the band sawing machine could be driven to move synchronously with
the upper shaft assembly, as the upper shaft assembly is driven. The
advantages    of  the   present  invention   include that:   this quick
tensioning mechanism is adapted to the operation of a small-sized
band sawing machine and could be used for saving the space occupied
by the band sawing machine.         Meanwhile,    this quick tensioning
mechanism could realize independent swing and could improve the
accuracy of the swing.
                                    1

DRAW NGS
 161
  FIG. 1
  FIG. 2

   A QUI CK TENSIONING MECHANI SM AND A
   WOODWORKING BAND SAWING MACHI NE
                        USING THEREOF
Technical Field
    The    present   invention  belongs  to  the  technical  field  of
woodworking machines, and in particular relates to a quick tensioning
mechanism used in a woodworking band sawing machine and the
woodworking band sawing machine using thereof.
Background Art
    Woodworking band sawing machine includes a band saw blade,
which has a ring shape without end, wherein the band saw blade is
winded on two saw wheels, for implementing a linear motion in single
direction, as so to cut woods. The woodworking band sawing machine
mainly includes an upper saw wheel, a lower saw wheel, a driving
device, an operating platform, a saw blade, a tensioning mechanism
and a body. Generally, with regard to an upright saw, the lower saw
wheel is configured as a driving wheel, and the upper saw wheel is
configured as a driven wheel, and the saw blade is provided around
the periphery of the upper saw wheel and the periphery of the lower
saw wheel. By this way, the lower saw wheel could be driven by the
driving device, thus the driving force could be transmitted to the
upper saw wheel.       Moreover, the tension   of the saw    blade   is
implemented by the tensioning mechanism, which is connected to the
upper saw wheel.
    In this woodworking       band sawing   machine,  the tensioning
mechanism is one of the important parts. By means of a tensioning
force caused by an elastic body in this tensioning mechanism, the
                                    1

tensioning mechanism could press the saw blade against the surfaces
of the saw wheels, thus the woods could be cut by this way. Nowadays,
the tensioning mechanism could be clarified into many types, which
include   quick tensioning     mechanism    and   non-quick tensioning
mechanism.      Meanwhile, the quick tension mechanism       could be
further clarified into a peripheral cam type tensioning mechanism and
an end cam type tensioning mechanism.          However, the non-quick
tensioning mechanism cannot be implemented rapidly, in which, the
saw blade is required to be adjusted after being released or replaced.
On    another    hand,   the  peripheral  cam   type  quick tensioning
mechanism has poor stability and is liable to cause shake. The end
cam type tensioning mechanism could implement a quick tension,
thus this kind of tensioning mechanism          is widely used in the
woodworking band sawing machine.
     As for the woodworking band sawing machine in the art (e.g., a
band sawing machine disclosed by a Chinese patent CN201736289U),
please refer to in Fig.1 which is a structural diagram of this quick
tensioning mechanism, wherein a hand wheel is disposed underneath
and a slider which is connected to an upper saw wheel is disposed on
an upper position, thus the spacing between the upper saw wheel and
the lower saw wheel is relatively big. In this case, the woodworking
band sawing machine needs a sufficient installing space used for
mounting saw wheels having large sizes. Meanwhile, the space for the
swinging parts of the quick tensioning mechanism is set as the gap
between a threaded union and a double-headed screw. In this
configuration, because the double-headed screws is connected with a
sliding rob, the swinging parts (excepted for the threaded union)
might swung as an integrated part and there may be a lot of swinging
parts in the mechanism, thus the precision of the swing is relatively
                                     2

low.
Summary of the Invention
    The invention provides a quick tensioning mechanism        and a
woodworking     band   sawing   machine  provided  with   said  quick
tensioning mechanism. This quick tensioning mechanism is adapted
to the operation of a small-sized band sawing machine for saving the
space occupied by a band sawing machine. Meanwhile, this quick
tensioning mechanism could realize independent swings and could
improve the accuracy of the swings.
    The   quick tensioning    mechanism   provided  by  the   present
invention comprises:
    a tensioning bracket fixed to a body of the woodworking band
sawing machine;
    a tensioning assembly provided on the tensioning bracket and
being capable of moving upwardly or downwardly relative to the
tensioning bracket;
    a cam assembly connected to the tensioning assembly, where the
tensioning assembly could be lifted or be released, when the cam
assembly is driven;
    a guiding element, which is connect to the tensioning assembly
and is capable of moving synchronously with the tensioning assembly,
and the guiding element is also connected to the tensioning bracket
and capable of moving upwardly or downwardly relative to the
tensioning bracket; and
    an upper shaft assembly connected to the guiding element and
being capable of being swung around an axis of the guiding element,
wherein the upper shaft assembly is connected to an upper saw wheel
                                   3

of the woodworking band sawing machine, thereby the upper saw
wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine may be driven to
move synchronously together with the upper shaft assembly, once the
upper shaft assembly is driven.
    Furthermore, the guiding element connects to tensioning side
plates on both sides of the tensioning bracket, where each tensioning
side plate includes guiding slots used for guiding the up and down
movements of the guiding element, and two ends of the guiding
element   are respectively arranged       in the guiding   slots of two
tensioning side plates.
    Furthermore, the guiding element is connected to an upper shaft
connecting plate of the upper shaft assembly, thereby the upper shaft
connecting plate is capable of swinging around the axis of the guiding
element.
    Furthermore, the guiding element is connected to a tensioning
bottom assembly on the bottom of said tensioning assembly, the
tensioning   bottom   assembly   is arranged     inside said tensioning
bracket, and the tensioning bottom assembly is provided with a
mounting bracket which is capable of driving the guiding element.
    Furthermore,    the  mounting     bracket   has   a  half-surrounded
structure with an opening downwards, where the mounting bracket
includes   two   mounting   side   plates   arranged    oppositely,  each
mounting side plate is provided with a side plate through hole, both
ends of the guiding element are capable of being connected to the
side plate through holes of the two mounting side plates.
    Furthermore, the tensioning bottom assembly further includes a
threaded plate, which is arranged inside the mounting bracket, where
an elastic body is provided between the threaded plate and the
                                    4

mounting bracket, when the threaded plate moves upwardly, the
elastic body is compressed, thereby the mounting bracket could also
move upwardly; when forces exerted on the mounting bracket and
the elastic body are released, the threaded plate may fall back.
    Furthermore, the tensioning assembly includes a transmission
device been capable of passing though the cam            assembly, the
tensioning bracket and the tensioning bottom assembly successively,
wherein the transmission device and the tensioning bottom assembly
are connected to each other through threaded connection and are
capable of interacting with each other, and wherein the transmission
device is provided with a constraining step configured to constrain up
upward movement of the cam assembly.
    Furthermore, the cam assembly includes an upper cam assembly
and a lower cam assembly, where both of the upper cam assembly
and the lower cam assembly have end cam structures which are
disposed symmetrically, wherein the upper cam assembly is capable
of being connected to the tensioning bracket by a positioning bolt,
when the lower cam assembly is driven, the upper cam assembly may
be capable of moving upwardly or downwardly along the positioning
bolts.
    Furthermore,    the upper shaft    assembly further    includes an
adjusting and locking element, where the adjusting and locking
element includes an adjusting handle and a wing nut, wherein the
adjusting handle is capable of being matched to said tensioning
bracket by threaded connection, wherein the upper shaft connecting
plate of the upper shaft assembly is capable of swinging around the
axis of the guiding element as the adjusting handle is turned; the wing
nut is configured to locking the adjusting handle and the body of the
woodworking band sawing machine.
                                   5

     The present invention further provides a band sawing machine
comprising:    the quick tensioning   mechanism     mentioned    above,
wherein the quick tensioning mechanism is connected with an upper
saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine through an
upper shaft of the upper shaft assembly.
     Compared with the prior art, the present invention has the
following beneficial effects:
     1) Unlike the existing quick tensioning mechanism in which the
hand wheel is disposed underneath, the quick tensioning mechanism
according the present invention, in which the hand wheel is disposed
on the top of the tensioning assembly and the upper shaft assembly is
disposed underneath, the distance between the lower saw wheel and
the upper saw wheel is reduced, thus the height in the cutting process
could be increased, the inner space occupied by the woodworking
band    sawing   machine   could  be saved.   Accordingly,   the quick
tensioning mechanism according the present invention is facilitated to
the operation and is suitable for a small-sized band sawing machine.
     2)  Unlike the existing quick tightening mechanism,      the quick
tightening mechanism according to the present invention merely
allows the upper axle assembly to swing around the axis of the guide
element, thus the number of the swinging parts could be reduced and
the swinging accuracy could be improved;
     3) The tensioning frame     and the upper cam       assembly are
connected to each other through the locating blot, which is used for
ensuring that the upper cam assembly can only perform up and down
movement under the force, so as to prevent the upper cam assembly
from rotating;
     4) The cam assembly is provided with a pair of end cam structures
                                   6

arranged symmetrically, the cam assembly comprised an upper cam
assembly and a lower cam assembly, and the mating surfaces of
these cam assemblies could be realized the switch between higher
surface-higher mating      surface and higher surface-lower surface
mating surface , so as to realize the quick tensioning process and the
quick releasing process for the saw blade;
    5) The bottom assembly is provided with a threaded plate, the
threaded plate is a rectangular threaded plate, the tensioning rod is
capable of driving the threaded plate to move upwardly, the elastic
body is compressed by the upward movement of the threaded plate,
at the same time, the mounting bracket is driven to move upwardly;
when the elastic force of the elastic body is released, the tensioning
rod may fall back under the force of the gravity of tension bottom
member; during the process mentioned above, the threaded plate is
a rectangular threaded plate, the rotating of tensioning rod could be
prevented during this process, so as to improve the efficiencies of
releasing step and tensioning process; 6) A thrust bearing is provide
between the cam assembly and the tensioning cover plate, and the
thrust bearing is in close contact with the bottom of the cam assembly
and the tensioning cover plate; as the cam assembly is driven, the
thrust bearing could be capable of not only making the rotation of the
cam assembly smoothly, but also assisting the tensioning rod in rising,
as the cam assembly is pushed;7) The quick tensioning mechanism
provided by the present invention further comprises an adjusting and
locking element to maintain the upper saw wheel and the lower saw
wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine locating in a same
vertical plane constantly, thus the saw blade is capable of running at
high speed along the peripheries of the upper/ lower saw wheels
without deviations.
                                    7

Brief Description of the Drawings
    Fig. 1 is a structural schematic diagram of a quick tensioning
mechanism in the art.
    Fig. 2 is a structural schematic diagram of a quick tensioning
mechanism according to the present invention.
    Fig.3 is a structural schematic diagram of the tensioning bracket
according to the present invention.
    Fig.4 is a exploded view of the quick tensioning mechanism
according to the present invention.
    Fig.5 is a structural schematic diagram of the tensioning rod
according to the present invention.
    Fig.6 is a structural schematic diagram of the mounting bracket
according to the present invention.
    Fig.7 is a structural schematic diagram of the upper saw wheel
according to the present invention.
    Fig.8 is a structural schematic diagram of the lower saw wheel
according to the present invention.
    Fig.9 is a structural schematic diagram of the connecting plate of
the upper shaft assembly according to the present invention.
    Fig.10 is the first structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism       in the tensioning state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.11 is the second structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism       in the tensioning state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.12 is the third structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism       in the tensioning state according to the
present invention.
                                   8

    Fig.13 is the fourth structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism       in the tensioning state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.14 is the first structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism in the quick releasing state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.15 is the second structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism in the quick releasing state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.16 is the third structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism in the quick releasing state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.17 is the fourth structural schematic diagram of the quick
tensioning mechanism in the quick releasing state according to the
present invention.
    Fig.18 is a structural schematic diagram of the woodworking band
sawing machine according to the present invention.
    Wherein,
    1. tensioning bracket; 2. tensioning assembly; 3. cam assembly;
4. guiding element; 5. upper shaft assembly; 6. adjusting and locking
element; 7. quick tensioning mechanism; 8. upper saw wheel; 9.
lower saw wheel; 10. saw blade; 16. operating platform; 17. body;
    11.  tensioning cover plate;      12.  tensioning fixing plate;  13.
tensioning side plate; 14. locking plate; 15. first mounting space;
    111. cover plate bolt hole; 112. cover plate axle hole;
    131. first tensioning side plate; 132. second tensioning side plate;
133. guiding slot
    21. tensioning hand wheel; 22. tensioning transmission device; 23.
tensioning bottom assembly;
                                     9

    211. column pin
    221. tensioning rod; 222. thrust bearing; 223. constraining step;
224. groove;
    231. mounting bracket; 232. elastic body; 233. threaded plate;
    2311. mounting top plate; 2312. mounting side plate; 2313. top
plate axle hole; 2314. side plate through hole;
    31. upper cam assembly; 32. lower cam assembly; 33. positioning
bolt; 34. handle rod; 35. higher surface; 36. inclined surface; 37.
lower surface;
    311. upper cam plate; 312. upper cam axle hole; 313. cam bolt
holes;
    321. handle ball
    41. guiding shaft; 42. shaft retainer ring;
    51. upper shaft; 52. upper shaft connecting plate; 53. hexagonal
bolt;
    521. connecting faceplate; 522. connecting side plate; 523. notch
    61. adjusting handle; 62. wing nut
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
    For clarifying the objects, the techniques and the advantages of
the present invention,     hereinafter, embodiments of the present
invention will be clearly and completely described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings.
    Referring   to Fig.2,  the present    invention discloses a quick
tensioning mechanism used in a woodworking band sawing machine,
this quick    tensioning  mechanism     is  capable  of  performing a
preliminary tensioning operation, a quick releasing operation and a
quick tensioning operation for a saw blade of the woodworking band
sawing machine. This quick tensioning mechanism includes:
    a tensioning bracket     1, which is fixed to the body of the
                                    10

woodworking band sawing machine;
    a tensioning assembly 2, which is capable of passing through the
tensioning   bracket   1 and     is capable   of   moving    upwardly    or
downwardly relative to the tensioning bracket 1;
    a cam assembly 3, which is connected to the tensioning assembly
2, when a lower cam assembly 32 of the cam assembly 3 is driven, a
upper cam assembly 31 and the tensioning assembly 2 could be lifted
or be released to fall back;
    a guiding element 4, which is connect to the tensioning assembly
2 and is capable of moving          synchronously with the tensioning
assembly 2, the guiding element 4is also connected to the tensioning
bracket 1 and is capable of moving upwardly or downwardly relative
to the tensioning bracket 1; and
    an upper shaft assembly 5, which is connected to the guiding
element 4 and is capable of swinging around the axis of the guiding
element 4, and the upper shaft assembly 5 is also connected to the
upper saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine, thus the
upper saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine is driven
to move synchronously with the upper shaft assembly 5 as the upper
shaft assembly 5 is driven.
    As shown in Fig.3, the tensioning bracket 1 is a fixed frame
connected to the body of the woodworking band sawing machine.
According one embodiment of the present invention, the tensioning
bracket 1 of the quick tension mechanism has an integrated welded
structure. The tensioning bracket 1 comprises a tensioning cover
plate 11, a pair of tensioning fixing plates 12, a pair of tensioning side
plates 13 and a locking plate 14. The tensioning cover plate 11 is
provided above the tensioning fixing plates 12 and is perpendicular to
the tensioning fixing plate 12. The tensioning side plate 13 is provided
on inside of the corresponding tensioning fixing plate 12 and is
                                     11

perpendicular to it. The locking plate 14 is provided between the two
tensioning side plates 13. Moreover, the locking plate 14 and the
tensioning fixing plate 12 are arranged on the same vertical plane.
Wherein,    the tensioning bracket 1 is fixed to the body of the
woodworking band sawing machine by the tensioning fixing plate 12.
For ensuring the liability of such fixation to the body, a plurality of bolt
locating sets are provided on the tensioning fixing plate 12, thus the
tensioning fixing plate 12 and the body could be fixed together by a
plurality of bolts. By the tensioning cover plate 11, the tensioning
bracket 1 is capable of being connected to the tensioning assembly 2
and the cam assembly 3. For implementing the connections to the
those two assemblies, several bolt holes 111 and an axle hole 112 are
provided on the tensioning cover plate 11, wherein the axle hole 112
is arranged at the central portion of the tensioning cover plate 11, the
number of the bolt holes 111 is two, and the two bolt holes 111 are
arranged on both sides of the axle hole 112. In other words, the
tensioning bracket 1 is capable of being connected to the cam
assembly 3 by the bolt holes 111 and is capable of being connected to
the tensioning assembly 2 by the axle hole 112.
     Please be noted that, the tensioning fixing plate 12 and the
tensioning side plate 13 could have a split structure     or an integrated
structure. As the two assemblies have a split structure, the tensioning
fixing plate 12 and the tensioning side plate 13 are welded together
and are perpendicular to each other. As the two assemblies have an
integrated structure, the integration of the tensioning fixing plate 12
and the tensioning side plate 13 is a L-shape plate, i.e., this L-shape
plate includes the tensioning fixing plate 12 and the tensioning side
plates 13 which are perpendicular to each other.
     The tensioning bracket 1 is connected to the locking plate 14 by
the tensioning side plates 13. Wherein, the tensioning side plates 13
                                      12

include a first tensioning side plate 131 and a second tensioning side
plate 132, the two tensioning side plates 131, 132 have the same
structure and are arranged face-to-face. Both tensioning side plates
131, 132 are perpendicular to the tensioning cover plate 11 and the
tensioning fixing plate 12. Meanwhile, the tensioning side plates 13,
the tensioning cover plate 11, the tensioning fixing plate 12 and the
locking plate 14 are used to define a first mounting space 15, this first
mounting space 15 is capable of accommodating a tensioning bottom
assembly of the tensioning assembly 2, the upper shaft assembly 5
and the guiding element 4. Guiding slots 133 are provided on the
tensioning side plates 13, which are used for guiding the up and down
movements of the guiding element 4. The two ends of the guiding
element 4 are respectively arranged at the guiding slots 133 of the
two tensioning side plates 13 and are capable of moving along the
guiding slots 133. When the tensioning assembly 2 is driven, the
guiding element 4 lifts or falls along the guiding slots 133 together
with the tensioning assembly 2, meanwhile, the two ends of the
guiding slot 133 are used for limiting the up and down movements of
the guiding element 4.
    Referring to Fig.1 and Fig.4, the tensioning assembly 2 is capable
of implementing      the tensioning processes of the quick tension
mechanism. According to one embodiment of the present invention,
the tensioning assembly 2 comprises a tensioning hand wheel 21, a
tensioning transmission device 22 and a tensioning bottom assembly
23. Wherein, one side of the tensioning transmission device 22 is
connected to the tensioning hand wheel 21, and the other side of the
tensioning transmission device 22 passes through the tensioning
bracket 1 and the tensioning bottom assembly 23 in sequence.
Meanwhile, the tensioning transmission device 22 and the tensioning
bottom assembly 23 are connected to each other through threaded
                                    13

connection and are capable of interacting with each other. In other
words, the tensioning bottom assembly 23 is capable of moving
synchronously with the tensioning transmission device 22, and the
transmission device 22 will fall back together with the tensioning
bottom assembly 23, once the force exerted on the bottom assembly
23 is released.
     Unlike the quick tension mechanism in the art, according to the
embodiments of the present invention, the tensioning hand wheel is
provided    on the top of the tensioning assembly 2.        Thus, the
tensioning bottom assembly 23 is capable of moving synchronously
with the tensioning transmission device 22, when the hand wheel 21
is turned.
     One side of the tensioning transmission device 22 is connected to
the tensioning hand wheel 21, thus a movement of the tensioning
transmission device 22 might be caused by the hand wheel 21. The
other side of the transmission device 22 and the tensioning bottom
assembly     23  are   connected   to  each other   through   threaded
connection and interact with each other. For implementing the
functions mentioned above, according one embodiment of the present
invention, the tensioning transmission device 22 includes a tensioning
rod 221 and a thrust bearing 222, wherein one side of the tensioning
rod 221 is connected to the hand wheel 21, and the other side of the
tensioning rod 221 passes through the cam assembly 3, the thrust
bearing 222, the tensioning cover plate 11 of the tensioning bracket 1
and the tensioning bottom assembly 23 in sequence.
    As shown in Fig.4-5, the tensioning rod 221 is configured as a rod
provided with screw structure, in which the upper end is thicker than
the lower end. This tensioning rod 221 comprises a upper tensioning
rod and a lower tensioning rod, wherein the outer diameter of the
upper tensioning rod is greater than the outer diameter of the lower
                                    14

tensioning rod, and wherein the junction of the upper tensioning rod
and the lower tensioning rod is a constraining step 223, which is used
for constraining the upward movement of the cam assembly 3. The
tensioning hand wheel 21 is connected to the upper end of the upper
tensioning rod, wherein the tensioning hand wheel 21 comprises a
column pin 211 which is capable of being inserted into grooves 224
opened on the upper end of the upper tensioning rod, thus the
tensioning rod 221 is capable of rotating together with the hand wheel
21.  Moreover, the cam assembly 3, the thrust bearing 222, the
tensioning cover plate 11      of the tensioning bracket    1 and the
tensioning bottom assembly 23 are connected to the lower tensioning
rod in sequence. The thrust bearing 222 is disposed between the cam
assembly 3 and the tensioning cover plate 11, and thus the thrust
bearing 222 is in close contact with the bottom end surface of the cam
assembly 3 and the tensioning cover plate 11.          When the cam
assembly 3 is driven, the thrust bearing     222 is capable of not only
making the rotation of the cam assembly 3 smooth, but also assisting
the tensioning rod 221 in rising, as the cam assembly 3 is pushed.
    The tensioning bottom assembly 23 is arranged inside the first
mounting space 15 of the tensioning bracket 1. And the tensioning
bottom assembly 23 is connected with the tensioning rod 221 and the
guiding element 4 at the same time. Thus, when the tensioning
bottom assembly 23 is moved under the action of a force, the upper
shaft assembly 5 could move simultaneously. For implementing the
function   mentioned    above,   the   tensioning  base  assembly    23
comprises a mounting      bracket 231,    an elastic body 232 and a
threaded plate 233. The mounting bracket 231 has a half-surrounded
structure with an opening downwards. The elastic bodies 232 are
located within the mounting bracket 231, and the threaded plate 233
is located below the elastic body 232. Before the lower end of the
                                    15

tensioning rod 221 connected to the threaded plate 233, the lower
end of it passes through the mounting bracket 231, the elastic body
232 in sequence. Thus, the threaded plate 233 is driven to move
upwardly by the tensioning rod 221. By this way, the elastic body 232
is compressed by the upward movement of the threaded plate 233, at
the same time, the mounting bracket 231 is driven to move upwardly.
However, when the elastic force of the elastic body 232 is released,
the tensioning rod 221 will be fallen back together with the tension
base assembly 23 under the effect of the gravity exerted on the
tension bottom member 23.
    Referring to Figs. 4 and 6, according to preferable embodiment,
the mounting bracket 231 is formed of a U-shaped plate, whose
opening   is downward.      The   mounting    bracket  231   comprises a
mounting top plate 2311 and mounting side plates 2312 provided on
two opposite sides of the mounting top plate 2311. To facilitate the
connection with the tensioning rod 221, a top plate axle hole 2313 is
provided on the mounting top plate 2311, and the bottom end of the
tensioning rod 221 is capable of passing through the top plate axle
hole 2313. To facilitate the connection with the guide member 4, side
plate through holes 2314 are provide on both mounting side plates
2312, and both ends of the guide member 4 are capable of passing
through the corresponding side plate through holes. Meanwhile, in
order to realize the initial tensioning state of the tensioning assembly
2, the tensioning bottom assembly 23 further comprises an elastic
body 232 having elasticity, thus the tensioning state of the quick
tensioning mechanism could be maintained by the elasticity of the
elastic  body   232.   Preferably,   the   elastic body   232   could be
implemented by a belleville spring. Thus, after the bottom end of the
tensioning rod 221 passes through the center of the elastic body, this
tensioning rod 221 could be connected with the threaded plate 233
                                     16

through threaded connection. Meanwhile, to facilitate the loading and
unloading of the saw blade, the stroke of the cam assembly 3 is
greater than the stroke of the elastic body 232 when the elastic body
232 is released.    Preferably, the threaded plate 233 could be a
rectangular threaded plate, the rectangular threaded plate is disposed
in the U-shaped plate, and thus the movement of the rectangular
threaded plate is limited by the U-shaped plate, thereby a relative
rotation could be prevented during the upward movement of the
rectangular threaded plate.
     Referring to Figs.3-6, as described above, the tensioning bottom
assem bly 23 is located in the first mounting space 15 of the tensioning
bracket 1. In other words, the mounting bracket 231 is located in the
first mounting space 15 of the tensioning bracket 1, wherein the
relationships between the plates of the mounting bracket 231 and the
plates of the tensioning bracket 1 will be described hereafter: the
mounting top plate 2311 is located below the tensioning cover plate
11; the mounting side plate 2312 is located inside the corresponding
tensioning side plate 13; a mounting bracket activity space is formed
between the mounting top plate 2311 and the tensioning cover plate
11; and an upper shaft assembly mounting space is formed between
the outside of the mounting side plate 2312 and the corresponding
tensioning side plate 13. Please be noted that, during the process of
assembling the mounting bracket 231 and the tensioning bracket         1,
the guiding element 4 is capable of passing through the guiding slot
133 and the side plate through holes 2314 in sequence from the
outside to the inside. Thus, the movement path of the mounting
bracket 231 is limited by the guiding slots 133.
     The movements of the tensioning assembly 2 will be described
hereafter: before the saw blade is not tightened, when the tensioning
hand wheel 21 is turned, the tensioning rod 221 is driven to rotate
                                     17

synchronously. At this moment, the lower end of the tensioning rod
221 is screwed into the threaded plate 233 which may drive the
threaded plate 233 to move upwardly. When the threaded plate 233
moves upwardly, the elastic plate 232 will be compressed and the
mounting bracket 231 will move upward synchronously, at this
moment, the guiding element 4 passing through the mounting side
plates 2312 will lift along the guiding slots 133. When the saw blade
begins to been tighten, the mounting bracket 231 will be in a fine
adjustment state. And then, during the hand wheel 21 is turned
continuously, the threaded plate 233 may continue moving upwardly
to compress the elastic body 232, until the saw blade is tensioned in
an operating state. Thereby, a tensioning and lifting process of the
tensioning assembly 2 is implemented.
    Referring to Figs.4, 7 and 8, the cam assembly 3 comprises an
upper cam assembly 31 and a lower cam assembly 32. Both of the
upper cam assembly 31 and the lower cam assembly 32 have end cam
structures which are disposed symmetrically. The mating surfaces of
the two assemblies include a higher surface 35, a lower surface 37
and an inclined surface 36, wherein the inclined surface 36 provides a
smooth transition between the high surface 35 and the low surface 37,
so as to provide a smooth switching between the end surfaces of the
two cam assemblies. According to the present invention, the lower
cam assembly 32 is a driving member, and the upper cam assembly
31 is a driven member. When the lower cam assembly 32 is driven,
the mating surfaces of the two assemblies could realize the contact
between two higher surfaces 35 or realize the contact between the
higher surface 35 and the lower surface 37. At the same time, the
mating surfaces of the upper cam assembly 31 and the lower cam
assembly 32 further include locking surfaces which are disposed on
the side of the upper surface 35 and are disposed on the side of the
                                    18

lower surface 37. The locking surfaces are used for locking the cam
assembly 3 on current mating surfaces. By this way, a continuous
rotation of the cam assembly 3 could be prevented, meanwhile, the
reliability both in the tension state and in the release state could be
ensured.
    Referring   to Fig.4   and Fig.7,  the upper    cam   assembly 31
comprises an upper cam plate 311 which is located below the upper
tensioning rod 221.      By the constraining step 223 of the upper
tensioning rod 221, the upward movement of the upper cam plate 311
could be constrained. The upper cam plate 311 is provided with an
upper cam axle hole 312 and cam bolt holes 313 distributed on two
sides of the upper cam axle hole 312. The upper cam plate 311 is
connected to the tensioning assembly 2 by the upper cam axle hole
312 and is connected to the tensioning bracket 1 by the cam bolt holes
313. Here, it should be noted that, during the process of connecting
the upper cam plate 311 to the tensioning bracket 1, the positions of
the two cam bolt holes 313 are corresponding to the positions of the
two bolt holes 111 of the tensioning cover plate 11, meanwhile, the
two cam bolt holes 313 are connected to the two bolt holes 111 by the
positioning bolts 33. When the upper cam assembly is under stress,
the positioning bolts 33 are used for ensuring the up and down
movement of the upper cam assembly 31 and for preventing it from
rotating.
    Similarly, as shown in Figs. 4 and 8, the lower cam assembly 32 is
provided with a lower cam axle hole, the upper cam axle hole 312 and
the lower cam axle hole are located on the axis of the tensioning rod
221. That is, the tensioning rod 221 is capable of passing through the
upper cam axle hole 312 and the lower cam axle hole at the same time.
To facilitate driving the lower cam assembly 32, one side of the lower
cam assembly 32 is connected to a handle ball 321 through a handle
                                    19

rod 34. That is, by means of the handle ball 321, the lower cam
assembly 32 is driven to rotate relative to the upper cam assembly 31,
so as to implement a replacement of the mating surfaces of two cam
assem blies.
    The movements of the cam assembly 3 will be described hereafter:
when the higher surface of the upper cam assem bly 31 contacts to the
higher surface of the lower cam assembly 32 by operating the handle
ball 321, the upper cam assembly 31 may be lifted along the direction
of the positioning bolts 33, and the lifting height of upper cam
assembly 31 is constrained by the constraining step 223 formed
between the upper tensioning rod 221 and the lower tensioning rod
221. At this time, the hand wheel 21 could be operated to realize the
tensioning of the tensioning assembly 2. When the lower surface of
the upper cam assembly 31 contacts to the higher surface the lower
cam assembly 32 by operating the handle 321 continuously, the
tensioning assembly 2 may fall back under the action of the resilience
of the elastic body 232 and under the force of the gravity of the upper
saw wheel, and the upper cam assembly 31 may be forced to fall back
along the direction of the positioning bolts 33.
    Referring to Fig.4, the guiding member 4 is a guiding shaft 41. The
guiding   shaft 41   passes through    the guiding slots 133 of the
tensioning side plates 13 and the side plate through holes 2314 of the
mounting side plates 2312, to realize a synchronous movement
together with the tensioning bottom end assembly 23. The range of
this synchronous movement is further limited by the guide slots 133.
The guiding shaft 41 is provided with shaft retainer rings 42, which
are located at both ends of the guiding shaft 41 and are used for fixing
the guiding shaft 41 to the tensioning side plate 13 of the tensioning
frame 1, to preventing the guiding shaft 41 from a axial movement
with respect to the tensioning bracket 1. Here, it should be noted that,
                                    20

the guiding shaft 41 may or may not rotate relative to the tensioning
side plates 13 and the mounting side plates 2312, which is not defined
by the present invention. Meanwhile, the guiding shaft 41 is capable
of being connected to the upper shaft assembly 5 and is capable of
driving the upper shaft assembly 5 to move upwardly or downwardly.
    The movements of the guiding element 4 will be described
hereafter:
    when the tensioning member 2 is tensioned and lifted, the guiding
member 4 may be lifted together with the tensioning member 2
simultaneously; however when the guiding member 4 falls back, the
tensioning member 2 may fall back synchronously.
    Referring to Fig.2, Fig.4 and Fig.9, relative to the tensioning
bracket 1, the upper shaft assembly 5 is designed as a separate
element. As described above, the tensioning frame 1 and the body of
the woodworking band sawing machine are fixed and remain a stable
status in any process. In this case, an axial swing around the guiding
shaft 41 required by the operation of the band sawing machine is
merely realized by the upper shaft assembly 5. The upper shaft
assembly 5 comprises an        upper shaft 51     and an  upper shaft
connecting plate 52. One side of the upper shaft 51 is fixed to the
upper shaft connecting plate 52 by a hexagonal bolt 53; meanwhile,
the other side of the upper shaft 51 is connected to the saw wheel of
the woodworking band sawing machine. The upper shaft connecting
plate 52 comprises a connecting faceplate 521 and connecting side
plates 522. The connecting faceplate 521 is provided with a hole for
the upper shaft 51. The upper shaft 51 is configured to pass through
the hole for the upper shaft 51 and then is fixed to the connecting
faceplate 521. The connecting side plates 522 are located on both
sides of the connecting faceplate 521. The connecting plates 522 are
provided with notches 523 and are hung on the guiding shaft 41
                                   21

through the notches 523. It should be noted that, as mentioned above,
an upper shaft assembly mounting space is provided between the
outside of the mounting side plates 2312 and the inside of the
tensioning side plates 13. The notches 523 of the connecting plate
side plate 522 are located in the mounting space of the upper shaft
assembly 5. In other words, from the outside to the inside, the
positional relationships among the mounting side plate 2312, the
tensioning side plate 13 and the connecting plate side plate 522are:
the tensioning side plate 13 -> the connecting plate side plate 522 ->
the mounting side plate 2312. A swinging space for the upper shaft
connecting plate is positioned between the inside of the tensioning
side plate 13 and the outside of the connecting plate side plate 522. In
other words, during the operation process of the band sawing
machine, only the upper shaft assembly 5 may swing within the
remaining horizontal swinging space for the upper shaft connecting
plate. Compared     with the existing overall swinging       mode, the
swinging process is only implemented by partial assembly, thereby
the precision of the swinging could be improved.
    Meanwhile, as an embodiment of the quick tensioning mechanism
according to the present invention, in order to maintain the upper saw
wheel and the lower saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing
machine locating in a same vertical plane constantly, and to make
sure that the saw blade is capable of running at high speed along the
peripheries of the upper/ lower saw wheels without deviations, the
quick tensioning mechanism        according to the present invention
further comprises an adjusting and locking element 6, the adjusting
and locking element 6 comprises an adjusting handle 61 and a wing
nut 62, wherein the adjusting handle 61 is capable of passing through
the locking plate 14 of the tensioning bracket 1 vertically and is
capable contacting with the inner surface of the connecting faceplate
                                    22

521, and wherein the adjusting handle 61 is matched to the locking
plate 14 by threaded connections. After the saw blade has been
tightened, a threaded end of the adjusting handle 61 presses against
the inner surface of the connecting faceplate 521. The wing nut 62 is
disposed at the junction of the locking plate 14 and the adjusting
handle 61 to lock the adjusting handle 61.
    The movements of the upper shaft assembly 5 will be described
hereafter:
    when the guiding member 4 lifts together with the tension
member 2 in a synchronous manner, the upper saw wheel may be
driven to move upwardly by the upper wheel shaft assembly 5. When
the upper shaft assem bly 5 is fallen back under the force of the gravity,
the guiding member 4 and the tensioning member 2 may fall back
synchronously. When the vertical plane where the saw wheel located
needs to be adjusted, the upper shaft connecting plate 52 may swing
around the axis of the guide shaft 41        by means of turning the
adjusting handle 61, by this way, the position of the upper saw wheel
of the band sawing machine could be adjusted to make it located in a
vertical plane in which the lower saw wheel of it locates.
    Different from the structure of the upper wheel shaft assembly 5
of the existing quick tensioning mechanisms, according to the present
invention,   the upper wheel axle assembly 5           in present   quick
tensioning mechanism is disposed underneath. That is, in the case
that the lower saw wheel is in an unchangeable position, the distance
between the lower saw wheel and the upper saw wheel is reduced to
facilitate the operation of a small-sized band sawing machine and to
save the space occupied by the band sawing machine. Meanwhile,
comparing with the technologies in the art, as the upper wheel axle
assembly 5 and the upper saw wheel are disposed underneath, the
elastic return stroke of the elastic body and the fall back of the upper
                                    23

saw wheel under the force of the gravity accelerate the releasing step
of the saw blade.
     According to the present invention, the work process implemented
by the tensioning mechanism includes a preliminary tensioning step,
a quick releasing step and a quick tensioning step. Wherein, the
preliminary tensioning step is a process of adjusting the tightness of
the saw blade before using the woodworking band sawing machine
and the aims of this preliminary tensioning step is to make the saw
blade reach a preliminary tension state. During the process of
operating the woodworking band sawing machine, the saw blade
should be maintained in such preliminary tension state. When the saw
blade needs to be replaced, i.e., when the woodworking band sawing
machine is in an off-working state, the quick releasing process could
release the saw blade quickly and the quick tensioning process could
tension the saw blade quickly, and the saw blade could be in a
releasing state or in a tensioning state through such quick releasing
process or such quick tensioning process respectively. Accordingly, it
is unnecessary to readjust the tightness of the saw blade, i.e., the
initial tightness in the preliminary tensioning state could be achieved.
Thus, the saw blade could be in the workable preliminary tensioning
state rapidly.
Initial tensioning process
     Before the woodworking       band   sawing machine performs      its
normal operations, the tightness of the saw blade of the band sawing
machine needs to be adjusted. Firstly, the handle ball 321 is operated
to make the higher surfaces 35 of the upper cam assembly 31 and the
lower cam assembly 32 contact with each other, the upper cam
assembly 31 is lifted to the constraining step 223 of the tensioning rod
221 along the direction of the positioning bolts 33. Secondly, the hand
wheel 21 is operated, to lift the tensioning the tensioning assembly 2;
                                     24

when the tensioning the tensioning assembly 2 lifts, the guiding
element 4 is lifted synchronously along with the guiding slots 133,
simultaneously, the upper shaft assembly 5 and the upper saw wheel
are lifted. In the case that the lower saw wheel is static, the saw blade
hung between the two saw wheels is tensioned gradually, until it
reaches    the   initial tensioning  state. Figs.10-13    are   schematic
diagrams of a quick tensioning mechanism in a tensioning state.
Quick releasing step
    Here, the handle ball 321 is operated continuously, when the
lower surface 37 of the upper cam assembly 31 contacts with the
higher surface 35 of the lower cam assembly 32, the upper cam
assembly 31 falls back along the direction of the positioning bolts 33.
At this time, the upper cam assembly 31 is separated from the
constraining step 223 of the tensioning rod 221. In this case, the
tensioning assembly 2 can no longer be used for constraining, thus
the tensioning assembly 2 falls back under the elastic force and under
the force of the gravity of the upper saw wheel, meanwhile, the upper
shaft assembly 5 and the upper saw wheel also fall back. In the case
that the lower saw wheel is static, the saw blade hung between the
upper saw wheel and the lower saw wheel is released rapidly, until it
reaches the released state, in which the saw blade could by operated
by corresponding operations. Figs. 14-17 are schematic diagrams of
the quick tensioning mechanism in such quick releasing state.
Quick tensioning step
    When the handle ball 321 is operated continuously to make the
higher surface 35 of the upper cam assembly 31 contact with the
higher surface 35 of the lower assembly 32 again, the upper cam
assembly 31 is capable of being lifted again along the direction of the
positioning bolts 33. At this time, as the tensioning hand wheel 21 is
not operated, the relative position between the tensioning hand wheel
                                    25

21 and the threaded plate 233 is hold. When the upper cam assembly
31 is lifted again along the direction of the positioning bolts 33, the
elastic force of the elastic body 232 in the tensioning assembly 2 could
be remained. By this way, the tensioning assembly 2 could be lifted to
the initial tensioning position rapidly.      In such initial tensioning
position, the saw blade could tension rapidly and achieve the quick
tensioning   state. Accordingly,    it is unnecessary to readjust the
tensioning hand wheel 21, and the quick tensioning state could be
achieved    quickly. The     quick tensioning   mechanism    in  a rapid
tensioning state is shown as Figs.10-13.
    Referring to FIG.      18, the present invention also provides a
woodworking band sawing machine. The woodworking band sawing
machine includes the quick tensioning mechanism 7, the upper saw
wheel 8, the lower saw wheel 9, the saw blade 10, an operating
platform 16, a motor and the body 17. The upper saw wheel 8 and the
lower saw wheel 9 are respectively mounted on the upper part and the
lower part of the body 17. The quick tensioning mechanism 7 is
connected with the upper saw wheel 8 through the upper shaft 51.
The saw blade 10 is arranged around the periphery of the upper saw
wheel 8 and the lower saw wheel 9. The operating platform 16 is fixed
to the body 17. The motor is used for driving the lower saw wheel 9.
When the woodworking band sawing machine is in operation, the
motor pulley drives the lower saw wheel 9 to rotate through the
multi-ribbed belt, thus the rotating force is transmitted to the upper
saw wheel 8 through the saw blade 10. When the upper saw wheel 8,
the lower saw wheel 9 and the saw blade 10 rotate in a stable state,
the saw blade 10 is capable of cutting the wood located on the
operating platform 16.
     Please be noted that: what is described above is not a limitation to
the present invention. It should be understood that for those skilled in
                                     26

the art, under the premise of not departing from the substantial scope
of the present invention, various changes, modifications, additions or
replacements can also be made, and these improvements and
modifications should also be regarded as falling into the protection
scope of the present invention.
                                   27

                                 CLAI MS
1. A quick tensioning mechanism used in a woodworking band sawing
   machine, wherein the quick tensioning mechanism comprises:
        a tensioning bracket (1) fixed to a body of the woodworking
   band sawing machine;
        a tensioning assembly (2) provided on the tensioning bracket
   (1) and being capable of moving upwardly or downwardly relative
   to the tensioning bracket (1);
        a cam assembly (3) connected to the tensioning assembly (2),
   where the tensioning assembly (2) could be lifted or be released,
   when the cam assembly (3) is driven;
        a guiding element (4), which is connected to the tensioning
   assembly (2)    and is capable of moving synchronously with the
   tensioning assembly (2), the guiding element (4) is also connected
   to the tensioning bracket (1) and is capable of moving upwardly or
   downwardly relative to said tensioning bracket (1); and
        an upper shaft assembly (5) connected to the guiding element
   (4) and being capable of being swung around an axis of the guiding
   element (4), where the upper shaft assembly (5) is connected to
   an upper saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing machine,
   thereby the upper saw wheel of the woodworking band sawing
   machine may be driven to move synchronously together with the
   upper shaft assembly (5), once the upper shaft assembly (5)       is
   driven.
2. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 1, wherein the guiding
   element (4) connects to tensioning side plates (13) on both sides
   of the tensioning bracket (1), where each tensioning side plate (13)
   includes guiding slot (133)    used for guiding the up and down
                                    1

   movements of the guiding element (4),          and two ends of the
   guiding element (4)     are respectively arranged in the guiding
   slots(133) of two tensioning side plates (13).
3. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 1, wherein the guiding
   element (4) is connected to an upper shaft connecting plate (52) of
   the upper shaft assembly (5), thereby the upper shaft connecting
   plate (52) is capable of swinging around the axis of the guiding
   element (4).
4. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 3, wherein the guiding
   element (4) is connected to a tensioning bottom assembly (23) on
   the bottom of the tensioning assembly (2), the tensioning bottom
   assembly (23) is arranged inside the tensioning bracket (1), the
   tensioning bottom assembly (23) is provided with a mounting
   bracket (231) which is capable of driving the guiding element (4).
5. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 4, wherein the mounting
   bracket (231)    has a half-surrounded structure with an opening
   downwards,     where the mounting bracket (231)         includes two
   mounting side plates (2312) arranged oppositely, each mounting
   side plate (2312) is provided with a side plate through hole (2314),
   both ends of the guiding element         (4)   are capable of being
   connected to the side plate through holes (2314)          of the two
   mounting side plates (2312).
6. The   quick   tensioning   mechanism    of   claim   4, wherein   the
   tensioning bottom assembly (23) further includes a threaded plate
   (233), which is arranged inside the mounting bracket (231), where
   an elastic body (232) is provided between the threaded plate (233)
   and the mounting bracket (231), when the threaded plate (233)
   moves upwardly, the elastic body (232)         could be compressed,
                                    2

   thereby the mounting bracket (231)      could also move upwardly;
   when forces exerted on the mounting bracket (231) and the elastic
   body (232) are released, the threaded plate (233) may fall back.
7. The   quick   tensioning    mechanism   of  claim  6, wherein   the
   tensioning assembly (2) includes a transmission device (22) been
   capable of passing though the cam assembly (3), the tensioning
   bracket (1) and the tensioning bottom assembly (23) successively,
   where the transmission device (22)      and the tensioning bottom
   assembly (23) are connected to each other through threaded
   connection and are capable of interacting with each other, and
   where the transmission device (22) is provided with a constraining
   step (223) configured to constrain an upward movement of the
   cam assembly (3).
8. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 1, wherein the cam
   assembly (3) includes an upper cam assembly (31)       and a lower
   cam assembly (32), where both of the upper cam assembly (31)
   and the lower cam assembly (32) have end cam structures which
   are disposed symmetrically, wherein the upper cam assembly (31)
   is capable of being connected to the tensioning bracket (1) by
   positioning bolts (33), when the lower cam assembly (32) is driven,
   the upper cam assembly (31) may be capable of moving upwardly
   or downwardly along the positioning bolts (33).
9. The quick tensioning mechanism of claim 1, wherein the upper
   shaft assembly (5)      further includes an adjusting and locking
   element (6), where the adjusting and locking element (6) includes
   an adjusting handle (61)       and a wing nut (62),   wherein the
   adjusting   handle   (61)   is capable of being   matched   to the
   tensioning   bracket   (1)   by thread,  wherein  the upper   shaft
   connecting plate (52) of the upper shaft assembly (5) is capable of
                                     3

   swinging around the axis of the guiding element (4)          as the
   adjusting handle (61) is turned;, the wing nut (62) is configured to
   lock the adjusting    handle (61)    and  the body     (17)  of the
   woodworking band sawing machine.
10.A woodworking band sawing machine, the woodworking band
   sawing machine comprising:       the quick tensioning mechanism
   according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein the quick tensioning
   mechanism (7) is connected with an upper saw wheel (8) of the
   woodworking band sawing machine through the upper shaft (51)
   of the upper shaft assembly (5).
                                   4

<removed-date>
              D RAW I N GS
<removed-apn>
                 FI G. 1
                 FI G. 2
                    1

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2
    FI G. 3

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3
    FI G. 4

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 5
              FI G. 6
              FI G. 7
                 4

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 8
              FI G. 9
              FI G. 10
                 5

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 11
              FI G. 12
              FI G. 13
                 6

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 14
              FI G. 15
              FI G. 16
                 7

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
8
    FI G. 18   FI G. 17

