Abstract
The present invention provides a protective coat 20 applied to the external surface of the
connection portions 12 of a marine anode. In one embodiment shown, the protective coat 20
is applied to the external surface of the thinner side portions 15. The protective coat in the
preferred embodiment is a thin layer of antifouling paint which is allowable for use in marine
areas around the world. The protective coat 20 prevents premature corrosion of the anode
10a at the coated parts of the connection portion 12.     The protective coat 20 on the coated
surfaces prevents or impedes corrosion at these surfaces for three to ten months. This delays
the corrosion of the thinner side portions 15 of the connection portions 12. After this corrosion
delay period, the protective coat 20 ceases to have effect and the process of anode corrosion
at these portions occurs equally to the rest of the anode.

              1/3
                                    10a
 11
                                 14
       12        20   115
           FIGURE 1
                                       10b
                                12
12
                             20
    20
    15
          15      20\     12
           FIGURE 2

                 2/3
                                     1Oc
                              12
12
    20
                           20
          15       20  15
              FIGURE 3
       30                 30     1Od
   12                             12
           15
              FIGURE 4
                 12
              FIGURE 5

                                                1
IMPROVED SACRIFICIAL ANODE
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to an improved sacrificial anode, particularly for marine
applications.
Background of the Invention
[2]      When two different metals are connected by seawater such as in marine applications,
electrical current flows between the metals essentially turning them into a battery. For the
current to exist, one of the metals has to physically give up pieces of itself (metal ions) to
create the electrons and feed the current. This process of metal deterioration through electrical
activity is known as galvanic corrosion.
[3]      In marine applications, metal parts such as propellers (bronze or aluminium), propeller
shafts, rudders, outboard and sterndrives are subject to galvanic corrosion which can cause
major and expensive damage if not controlled. Most boat insurance policies do not cover
failure caused by marine corrosion.
[4]      To stop galvanic corrosion from destroying underwater metal parts, the process of the
metals sacrificing themselves to the electrical current needs to be disrupted. The solution is to
add a third metal into the process, the third metal being a sacrificial galvanic anode that
sacrifices itself to protect the precious underwater metal parts. Sacrificial anodes are metals
that are quicker to give up pieces of themselves than the other metal parts in order to prevent
the underwater metal parts from corroding.
[5]      Sacrificial anodes are most commonly made from Zinc, as it is the best alloy for
protecting boats in seawater - hence, boaters refer to sacrificial anodes as Zincs. Sacrificial
anodes are thus installed at the key metal protected parts such as the propellers, propeller
shafts, rudders, outboard and sterndrives. The sacrificial anode for each of these parts is
shaped for connection to such parts and includes connection portions such as bolt holes.
[6]      The problem with sacrificial anodes is that sometime they fall off from the protected
part due to having thin sections at the connection portions. Figure 7 shows an example of a
sacrificial anode 100 comprising anode ring halves 110 connected to each other to extend
around a shaft 130. The anode halves 110 comprise connection portions 112 connected by
bolts 118. If the connection portions 112 corrode faster than the rest of the anode body 114,
the anode 100 can fall off the shaft 130 which will remove the corrosion protection of the shaft
130.

                                                   2
[7]     The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[8]     It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[9]     According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a sacrificial anode
comprising a body having connection portions for attachment to a structure, the connection
portions having an external protective coat to reduce the rate of galvanic corrosion at the
connection portions.
[10]    In one embodiment, the connection portions comprise bolt holes which extend through
the body adjacent side edges thereof, wherein the external protective coat is applied to side
portions of the body at the connection portions.
[11]    In another embodiment, the external protective coat is a layer of antifouling paint.
[12]    In another embodiment, the external protective coat is adapted to be effective for a
predetermined period.
[13]    In another embodiment, the predetermined period is 3 to 12 months.
[14]    In another embodiment, after the effectiveness of the external protective coat wears
out, the entire surface of the anode body corrodes uniformly.
[15]    In another embodiment, the anode is a propeller anode having three spaced bolt
connection portions, wherein the external sections of the connection portions includes an
external protective coat
[16]    In another embodiment, the anode is a propeller anode having five spaced bolt
connection portions around its periphery, wherein external sections of the connection portions
includes an external protective coat.
[17]    In another embodiment, the anode is a shaft anode comprising ring halves, the ring
halves comprising bolt connection portions for connecting to each other in use to extend
around a shaft, wherein external sections of the bolt connection portions includes an external
protective coat.
[18]    In another embodiment, the anode comprises a bolt connection portion at a mid-portion
thereof, the connection portion including a protective coat around the bolt hole.

                                                 3
[19]     In another embodiment, the area of the external protective coat on the anode does not
exceed 10% of the surface area of the body.
[20]     In another embodiment, the external protective coat does not interfere with the galvanic
corrosion of the rest of the body.
[21]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[22]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[23]     Figure 1 shows a shaft anode in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
present invention;
[24]     Figure 2 shows a propeller anode in accordance with another preferred embodiment
of the present invention;
[25]     Figure 3 shows another propeller anode in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the present invention;
[26]     Figure 4 shows a shaft anode in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the
present invention;
[27]     Figure 5 shows another shaft anode in accordance with another preferred embodiment
of the present invention;
[28]     Figure 6 shows a trim tab anode in accordance with another preferred embodiment of
the present invention;
[29]     Figure 7 shows a prior art shaft anode mounted to a propeller shaft.
Description of Embodiments
[30]     It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[31]     Figure 1 shows a shaft anode 10a in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
present invention. The shaft anode 1Oa comprises a hemispherical body 11 having connection
portions 12 at opposing sides thereof. The connection portions 12 comprise bolt holes 14
which extend through the body 11 adjacent opposing side edges thereof. In use, connection
bolts extend through the bolt holes 14 to connect the anode 10a to the shaft.
[32]     The formation of the bolt holes 14 leaves thinner side portions 15 of the body 11 at the
connection portions 12.      If the thinner side portions 15 corrode first, the connection bolts

                                                4
extending through the bolt holes 14 will be exposed which can lead to the anode 10a falling
off the shaft.
[33]    The present invention provides a protective coat 20 applied to the external surface of
the connection portions 12. In the embodiment shown, the protective coat 20 is applied to the
external surface of the thinner side portions 15.       The protective coat in the preferred
embodiment is a thin layer of antifouling paint which is allowable for use in marine areas
around the world.
[34]    The protective coat 20 prevents premature corrosion of the anode 10a at the coated
parts of the connection portion 12.    The protective coat 20 on the coated surfaces prevents
or impedes corrosion at these surfaces for three to ten months. This delays the corrosion of
the thinner side portions 15 of the connection portions 12.   After this corrosion delay period,
the protective coat 20 ceases to have effect and the process of anode corrosion at these
portions occurs equally to the rest of the anode.
[35]     Figure 2 shows a propeller anode 10b in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the present invention. The anode 1Ob comprises three spaced bolt connection
portions 12.    In accordance with the invention, the thinner external sections 15 of the
connection portions 12 includes a protective coat 20 at its external surface.
[36]     Figure 3 shows a propeller anode 10c in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the present invention. The anode 1Oc comprises five spaced bolt connection
portions 12 around its periphery.      In accordance with the invention, the thinner external
sections 15 of the connection portions 12 includes a protective coat 20 at its external surface.
[37]     Figure 4 shows a shaft anode 10d in accordance with another preferred embodiment
of the present invention. The anode 1Od comprises anode ring halves 30 connected to each
other in use to extend around a shaft. The anode halves 30 comprise bolt connection portions
12. In accordance with the invention, the thinner external sections 15 of the connection
portions 12 includes a protective coat 20 at its external surface. The coated surface protects
the shaft anode 10d from galvanic corrosion and prevents its halves 30 from getting loose
from the shaft.
[38]     Figure 5 shows another shaft anode 10e in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the present invention. This shaft anode is shaped for a specific engine model
and comprises a bolt connection portion 12 at a mid-portion thereof. In accordance with the
invention, the connection portion 12 includes a protective coat 20 around its external surface,
being around the bolt hole.

                                                5
[39]     Figure 6 shows a trim tab anode 1Of in accordance with another preferred embodiment
of the present invention. The anode 1Of is shaped as a disc having a bolt connection portion
12 at a mid-portion thereof. In accordance with the invention, the connection portion 12
includes a protective coat 20 around its external surface, being around the bolt hole.
[40]     The amount of surface area of an anode to which the protective coat 20 is applied will
depend on the anode location or application. For example, if the anode is located on a fast
moving part such as the shaft or the screw, abrasion of the protective coat 20 will be faster
than if the anode is located on the trim tab. A larger surface area of the anode for the moving
parts will thus be provided with the protective coat 20 on its connection portions 12.
[41]     The area of the protective coat 20 on any type of the anode will not exceed 10% of the
surface area and will not interfere with the corrosion of the rest of the anode surface. After
protection of the protective coat 20 wears, the entire surface of the anode corrodes uniformly.
[42]     The present invention thus provides a sacrificial anode cathodic protection system
adapted to impede corrosion on boats. The present invention prolongs durability of sacrificial
anodes thereby improving protection from galvanic corrosion. The present invention provides
a sacrificial anode comprising a body having connection portions for attachment to a structure,
the connection portions having an external protective coat to reduce the rate of galvanic
corrosion at the connection portions relative to the rate of galvanic corrosion of the portions of
the body without the external protective coat.
[43]     Whilst preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be
apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiments described.

                                                 6
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A sacrificial anode comprising a body having connection portions for attachment to a
        structure, the connection portions having an external protective coat to reduce the rate
        of galvanic corrosion at the connection portions.
   2. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the connection portions comprise bolt holes
        which extend through the body adjacent side edges thereof, wherein the external
        protective coat is applied to side portions of the body at the connection portions.
   3. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the external protective coat is a layer of
        antifouling paint.
   4. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the external protective coat is adapted to be
        effective for a predetermined period.
   5. The sacrificial anode of claim 5 wherein the predetermined period is 3 to 12 months.
   6. The sacrificial anode of claim 4 wherein after the effectiveness of the external
        protective coat wears out, the entire surface of the anode body corrodes uniformly.
   7. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the anode is a propeller anode having three
        spaced bolt connection portions, wherein the external sections of the connection
        portions includes an external protective coat
   8. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the anode is a propeller anode having five
        spaced bolt connection portions around its periphery, wherein external sections of the
        connection portions includes an external protective coat.
   9. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the anode is a shaft anode comprising ring
        halves, the ring halves comprising bolt connection portions for connecting to each other
        in use to extend around a shaft, wherein external sections of the bolt connection
        portions includes an external protective coat.
    10. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the anode comprises a bolt connection portion
        at a mid-portion thereof, the connection portion including a protective coat around the
        bolt hole.
    11. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the area of the external protective coat on the
        anode does not exceed 10% of the surface area of the body.
    12. The sacrificial anode of claim 1 wherein the external protective coat does not interfere
        with the galvanic corrosion of the rest of the body.

                                   1/3
<removed-date>
                                                                  10a
               11
<removed-apn>
                                                             14
                         12          20
                                              15
                                                                    10b
                                                         12
              12
                                                        20
                    20
                    15
                                                   12
                              15         20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
