          NOVEL SULFONYLAMINOBENZAMIDE COMPOUNDS AS
                                  ANTHELMINTICS
                                        Abstract
                           A                   NR-Y        (I)
                                            NR - S(0 2) -T
          The present invention relates to a new compound of formula (I) wherein the
variables have the meaning as indicated in the claims; or an enantiomer or salt
thereof.   The compounds of formula (I) are useful in the control of parasites, in
particular endoparasites, in and on vertebrates.

                                              1
               NOVEL SULFONYLAMINOBENZAMIDE COMPOUNDS AS
                                       ANTHELMINTICS
             The present application is a divisional of 2015308828, which was the national
   phase entry of PCT/US2015/047214, the entire specifications of which are incorporated
 5 herein by cross-reference.
             The present invention relates to novel sulfonylaminobenzamide compounds and
   their use in the control of endoparasites, for example heartworms, in warm-blooded
   animals.
             Heartworm (Dirofilariaimmitis) is a parasitic roundworm that is spread from host
10 to host through the bites of mosquitoes. The definite host is the dog but it can also infect
   cats and other warm-blooded animals. Although commonly being called "heartworm" the
   adult worms actually reside in the pulmonary arterial system (lung arteries) for the most
   part, and the primary effect on the health of the animal is damage to the lung vessels and
   tissue. Occasionally, adult heartworms migrate to the right heart and even the great veins
is in heavy infections. Heartworm infection may result in serious disease for the host.
             Heartworm infections may be combatted with arsenic-based compounds; the
   treatment is time-consuming, cumbersome and often only partly successful. Accordingly,
   the main focus is on the prevention of heartworm infections. Heartworm prevention is
   currently performed exclusively by year round periodical administration of a macrocyclic
20 lactone such as ivermectin, moxidectin or milbemycin oxime to the dog, cat or else
   warmblooded animal. Unfortunately, upcoming resistancy of Dirofilaria immitis against
   macrocyclic lactones has been observed in certain parts of the USA. Accordingly, there is
   a strong need for finding new classes of compounds which are effectively controlling
   heartworm infections either by way of prophylaxis or by direct killing of the different stages
25 of heartworms.      It now     has been     found   surprisingly  that  a  group    of novel
   sulfonylaminobenzamide        compounds     effectively  controls   endoparasites   including
   heartworms effectively on warm-blooded animals.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention therefore according to one embodiment concerns a
30 compound of formula

                                                  2
                                                  0
                               (0)"
                             A                        NR'-Y
                                                  NR 2 -S(O2)-T
            or a salt or an enantiomer thereof, wherein
            n is 0 or 1;
 5          A is Ci-C6 -alkyl; C 1 -C6-haloalkyl; C 3-C6-cycloalkyl; C3 -C6-halocycloalkyl; 5- or
   6-membered heterocycloalkyl having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected
   from the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted
   by halogen, Ci-C 4 -alkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy ; or is phenyl which is unsubstituted or
   substituted by halogen, C 1 -C 6-alkyl, Ci-C 6-haloalkyl, C 3 -C 6-cycloalkyl, C3 -C 6
10 halocycloalkyl, Ci-C 6-alkoxy, C1-C 6-haloalkoxy, Ci-C-alkylthio, Ci-C 6-haloalkylthio,
   C1-C-alkyl-sulfinyl, C 1-C 6-haloalkylsulfinyl, C1 -C6-alkylsulfonyl, CI-C 6
   haloalkylsulfonyl, SF 5 ; amino, N-mono- or NN-di-C 1 -C 6 -alkylamino,      tri-C 1 -C 4
   alkylsilyl, C1-C 6-alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, N-mono- or N,N-di-C1-C           6
   alkylaminocarbonyl, aminosulfonyl, N-mono- or N,N-di-C1-C 6-alkylaminosulfonyl, C1
15 C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino, N-C 1 -C 4-alkyl-N-Ci-C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino, cyano, nitro, or
   unsubstituted or halogen-, Ci-C 4-alkyl-, Ci-C 4 -haloalkyl-, CI-C 4-alkoxy-, C 1 -C 4
   haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro-substituted C 3-C 6-heterocyclyl; or is cinnamyl,
   which is unsubstituted or substituted in the phenyl moiety by halogen, CI-C 4-alkyl or C1
   C 4 -alkoxy; or is a heteroaromatic radical, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by
20 halogen, cyano, CI-C 4-alkyl, C 1-C 4-haloalkyl, Ci-C 4-alkoxy, Ci-C 4 -haloalkoxy, C 2 -C4
   alkanoyl, 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl-Ci-C 2-alkyl or unsubstituted or halogen-,
   CI-C 4-alkyl- or Ci-C 4-alkoxy-substituted phenyl; or is a hetero-bicyclic ring radical
   comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from which I to 5, preferably 1 or 2,
   members are same or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of B, N, 0
25 and S, and from which 0 to 2 members are a group C(O)-, which bicyclic ring radical is
   further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl, Ci-C 4-alkyl or C 1 -C 4
   haloalkyl;
            R 2 is H or S(O2)-T;

                                                  3
            T is CI-C 6 -alkyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, trimethylsilyl,
   C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, carboxyl or Ci-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl; C 3-C 6 -cycloalkyl; C6 -C1 2
   bicarbocyclyl ; phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, C1
   C 4-alkyl, Ci-C 4-haloalkyl or Ci-C 4-alkoxy; a 5- or 6 membered heteroaromatic radical,
 5 which is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4 -alkyl, C 1-C 4
   haloalkyl or Ci-C 4-alkoxy; 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl having from I to 3 same
   or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N, 0, S and S(02), which is
   further unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl or
                                           0
                                     -CH   2 N       N-R
   benzyloxycarbonyl ; a group                             ; amino; or N-mono- or N,N-di- C1
10 C 4-alkylamino;
            R3 is Ci-C 4-alkyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, Ci-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4-haloalkyl
   substituted phenyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, Ci-C 4-alkyl- or Ci-C 4-haloalkyl-substituted
   pyridyl, C 1-C 4 -alkoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yl-carbonylmethyl;
            R0 is H or hydroxy; and
15          Y is
            (i) phenyl or a phenylamino, which is substituted by one or more same or different
   radicals selected from the group consisting of halogen; Ci-C 6-alkyl; Ci-C 6 -haloalkyl; C3
   C 6-cycloalkyl; C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; hydroxyl; C1 -C 6-alkoxy; Ci-C 6-haloalkoxy; C1 -C 6
   alkylthio; C1-C 6-haloalkylthio; Ci-C 6-alkyl-sulfinyl; C1 -C6-haloalkylsulfinyl; CI-C 6
20 alkylsulfonyl; C1-C 6-haloalkylsulfonyl; SF 5 ; amino; N-mono- or N,N-di-Ci-C      6
   alkylamino; tri-Ci-C 4-alkylsilyl; Ci-C 6-alkoxycarbonyl; aminocarbonyl; N-mono- or
   N,N-di-C1-C 6 -alkylaminocarbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N-mono- or NN-di-C 1 -C6
   alkylaminosulfonyl; N-C 1 -C 6-alkylsulfonylamino; C 1 -C 6 -alkoxycarbonylamino; N-CI-C 4
   alkyl-N-C 1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; and unsubstituted or halogen-, C 1 -C 4
25 alkyl-, C 1 -C 4-haloalkyl-, Ci-C 4-alkoxy-, Ci-C 4-haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro
   substituted C 3-C 6-heterocyclyl; or is
            (ii) 5- or 6 membered heteroaryl or heteroarylamino, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, Ci-C 4-haloalkyl, Ci
   C 4-alkoxy, C1-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, C 2 -C4 -alkanoyl, or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is
30 each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro methyl or methoxy; or is

                                                   4
            (iii) benzoyl or 5- or 6 membered heteroarylcarbonyl, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, Ci-C 4-haloalkyl, C1
   C 4-alkoxy, C 1-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, C 2-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl; or is
            (iv) a C 6-C 12 -bicarbocyclic radical; or is a
 5          (v) a hetero-bicyclic ring radical comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from
   which 1 to 5, preferably 1 or 2, members are same or different heteroatoms selected from
   the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from which 0 to 2 members are a group
   C(O)-, which bicyclic ring radical is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen,
   cyano, hydroxyl, C1-C 4-alkoxy, Ci-C 4 -alkyl or Ci-C 4-haloalkyl; or is
10         (vi) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-R 4 , wherein R4 is C1-C 4-haloalkyl, C2 -C3 -alkynyl or
   cyano-Ci-C 4-alkyl; or
            R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached, form a piperidinyl
   or piperazinyl radical which is substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, Ci-C 4-alkoxy, unsubstituted or
   halogen-, C1 -C4-alkyl-, C1 -C4-haloalkyl-, amino- and/or C1-C 4 -alkoxy-substituted phenyl
15 or benzoylamino, or unsubstituted or C 1 -C 4 -alkyl-, C1-C 4-haloalkyl-, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl- or
   halogen-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl;
   subject to the provisos that
            (i) at least one of A and Y must not be a phenyl radical if T is CH 3; and
            (ii) T is C1-C 6-alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted as mentioned above if A
20 is Ci-C6 -alkyl or C1-C 6-haloalkyl.
           The invention also provides a composition comprising a compound of formula ([),
   or a salt or enantiomer thereof, and at least one carrier, for example a surfactant, a solid
   diluent and/or a liquid diluent.
            In one embodiment, this invention also provides a composition for controlling
25 parasites, in particular endoparasites, comprising a biologically effective amount of a
   compound of formula (I), or a salt thereof, and at least one additional component selected
   from the group consisting of a surfactant, a solid diluent and a liquid diluent, said
   composition optionally further comprising a biologically effective amount of at least one
   additional pharmaceutically or veterinary active compound or agent.
30         This invention also provides a method for controlling parasites comprising
   contacting the parasites or their environment with a pharmaceutically or veterinary
   effective amount of a compound of formula (I), an enantiomer or a salt thereof, (e.g., as a

                                                  5
   composition described herein). This invention also relates to such method wherein the
   parasites or their environment are contacted with a composition comprising a
   pharmaceutically or veterinary effective amount of a compound of formula (I), an
   enantiomer or a salt thereof, and at least one additional component selected from the
 5 group consisting of a surfactant, a solid diluent and a liquid diluent, said composition
   optionally further comprising a pharmaceutically or veterinary effective amount of at
   least one additional pharmaceutically or veterinary active compound or agent.
           This invention also provides a method for protecting an animal from a parasitic
   pest comprising administering to the animal a parasiticidally effective amount of a
10 compound of formula (I), an enantiomer or a salt thereof.
                                  DETAILS OF THE INVENTION
           In the above recitations, the term "alkyl", used either alone or in compound words
15 such as "alkylthio", "haloalkylthio", "haloalkyl", "N-alkylamino", "NN-di-alkyamino"
   and the like includes straight-chain or branched alkyl, such as, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, i
   propyl, n-, iso-, sec.- or tert.-butyl or the different pentyl or hexyl isomers.
           The term "alkoxy" used either alone or in compound words such as "haloalkoxy",
   "alkoxycarbonyl" includes, for example, methoxy, ethoxy, n-propyloxy, isopropyloxy
20 and the different butoxy, pentoxy and hexyloxy isomers. "Alkylthio" includes branched
   or straight-chain alkylthio moieties such as methylthio, ethylthio, and the different
   propylthio, butylthio, pentylthio and hexylthio isomers.
           "Alkylsulfinyl" includes both enantiomers of an alkylsulfinyl group. Examples of
   "alkylsulfinyl" include CH 3 S(O)-, CH 3 CH2 S(O)-, CH3CH2CH 2S(O)-, (CH 3) 2CHS(O)
25 and the different butylsulfinyl, pentylsulfinyl and hexylsulfinyl isomers.
           "Alkylcarbonyl" denotes a straight-chain or branched alkyl moieties bonded to a
   C(=0) moiety. Examples of "alkylcarbonyl" include CH 3C(=O)-, CH 3CH 2 CH 2 C(=O)
   and (CH 3)2CHC(=O)-. Examples of "alkoxycarbonyl" include CH 30C(=O)-,
   CH 3CH2 0C(=O), CH3CH 2CH20C(=0)-, (CH 3) 2CHOC(=O)- and the different butoxy- or
30 pentoxycarbonyl isomers, for example tert.-butoxycarbonyl (Boc). Examples of
   "alkoxycarbonylamino" include tert.-butoxycarbonylamino, examples of "N
   alkoxycarbonyl" include N-tert.-butoxycarbonyl and examples of "N-alkylamino"

                                                    6
   include N-methylamino. Examples of "N-mono- or NN-di-alkylaminocarbonyl" include
   N-methylaminocarbonyl, N-ethylaminocarbonyl, N-methyl-N-ethylaminocarbonyl, NN
   di-methylaminocarbonyl or NN-di-ethylaminocarbonyl. Examples of "alkyl
   carbonylamino" include methylcarbonylamino or ethylcarbonylamino.
 5         Examples of "alkylsulfonyl" include CH 3 S(O) 2 -, CH 3CH 2 S(O) 2 -,
   CH 3CH 2 CH 2 S(O) 2 -, (CH 3) 2 CHS(O) 2 -, and the different butylsulfonyl, pentylsulfonyl and
   hexylsulfonyl isomers. Examples of "N-mono- or NN-di-alkylaminosulfonyl" include N
   methylaminosulfonyl, N-ethylaminosulfonyl, N-methyl-N-ethylaminosulfonyl, N,N-di
   methylaminosulfonyl or N,N-di-ethylaminosulfonyl. Examples of "alkylsulfonylamino"
10 include methylsulfonylamino or ethylsulfonylamino.
           "Cycloalkyl" includes, for example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and
   cyclohexyl. The term "alkylcycloalkyl" denotes alkyl substitution on a cycloalkyl moiety
   and includes, for example, ethylcyclopropyl, i-propylcyclobutyl, 3-methylcyclopentyl and
   4-methycyclohexyl.
15         Examples of C 6-C12-bicarbocyclyl are the radical of (+)- or (-)-campher (1,7,7
                                                                               HC    CH,
   trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-one),        a radical          , a radical      CHor   indanyl.
           The term "halogen", either alone or in compound words such as "haloalkyl",
   includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine. Further, when used in compound words
   such as "haloalkyl", said alkyl may be partially or fully substituted with halogen atoms
20 which may be the same or different. Examples of "haloalkyl" include F 3C-, ClCH 2 -,
   CF 3CH 2 - and CF 3CCl2 -. The terms "halocycloalkyl", "haloalkoxy", "haloalkylthio", and
   the like, are defined analogously to the term "haloalkyl". Examples of "haloalkoxy"
   include CF 30-, CF3CF 2 -0-, CF 3CH 2 0-, CCl3CH 2 0-, CF3CHFCF20- and
   HCF 2CH 2CH20-. Examples of "haloalkylthio" include CCl3S-, CF 3S-, CCl 3CH 2 S- and
25 ClCH 2CH 2CH 2S-. Examples of "haloalkylsulfinyl" include CF 3 S(O)-, CCl 3 S(O)-,
   CF 3CH 2 S(O)- and CF 3CF2 S(O)-. Examples of "haloalkylsulfonyl" include CF 3S(O) 2 -,
   CCl 3 S(O) 2-, CF3CH2 S(O) 2- and CF 3CF 2S(O) 2-.
           The total number of carbon atoms in a substituent group is indicated by the "C
   Cj" prefix where i and j are integers. For example, CI-C 4 alkylsulfonyl designates
30 methylsulfonyl through butylsulfonyl.

                                                    7
            When a compound is substituted with a substituent bearing a subscript that
   indicates the number of said substituents can exceed 1, said substituents (when they
   exceed 1) are independently selected from the group of defined substituents, e.g., (R 2)n, n
   is 1 or 2.
 5          "Aromatic" indicates that each of the ring atoms is essentially in the same plane
   and has ap-orbital perpendicular to the ring plane, and in which (4n + 2)          7c electrons,
   where n is a positive integer, are associated with the ring to comply with Hckel's rule.
            The terms "heterocyclyl", "heterocyclic ring" or "heterocycle" denote a ring in
   which at least one atom forming the ring backbone is not carbon, e.g., nitrogen, oxygen
10 sulfur or a group S(O) or S(0     2 ). Typically a heterocyclic ring contains no more than 4
   nitrogens, no more than 2 oxygens and no more than 2 sulfurs. In addition, the
   heterocyclic ring may contain a group -C(O)-, -S(O)- or -S(0           2 )-. Unless otherwise
   indicated, a heterocyclic ring can be a saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
   ring. When a fully unsaturated heterocyclic ring satisfies Hckel's rule, then said ring is
15 also called a "heteroaromatic ring" or "heteroaryl" substituent. Unless otherwise
   indicated, heterocyclic rings and ring systems can be attached through any available
   carbon or nitrogen by replacement of a hydrogen on said carbon or nitrogen.
            The term heterocyclyl, either alone or in compound words such as
   heterocyclyloxy may be, for example a 5- or 6-membered heterocyclic radical having
20 from 1 to 4, preferably from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected from the group
   consisting of B, N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted. Examples of
   suitable substituents of the heterocyclyl are halogen, CI-C 6 -alkyl, C1-C 6 -haloalkyl, C 3-C6
   cycloalkyl, C 3 -C 6-halocycloalkyl, hydroxy, C1-C 6 -alkoxy, C 1 -C 6 -haloalkoxy, C1 -C 6
   alkylthio, C1 -C6-haloalkylthio, C1 -C6-alkylsulfinyl, C1-C 6 -haloalkylsulfinyl, C1 -C6
25 alkylsulfonyl, C1-C 6-haloalkylsulfonyl, cyano, nitro, amino, N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C 4
   alkylamino, C 1 -C 6 -alkoxycarbonyl, sulfonamido, N-mono- or NN, di-C 1 -C 4
   alkylsulfonamido, C 1 -C 6-alkylcarbonylamino, N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C6
   alkylaminocarbonyl, C 2-C 6-alkanoyl, or phenyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by
   halogen, C 1 -C 6-alkyl, C1-C 6 -haloalkyl, C 1 -C 6-alkoxy, C 1 -C 6-haloalkoxy, cyano or nitro.
30
            The term heterocyclyl may denote, for example, a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl
   radical having from 1 to 4, preferably from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected

                                                 8
   from the group consisting of N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by
   one or more substituents as defined above for heterocyclyl. The heteroaryl radical is
   preferably substituted by 0 to 3, in particular 0, 1 or 2 substituents from the group as
   defined above.
 5         The term 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl, either alone or in terms such as
   heteroarylamino or heteroarylcarbonyl, may include, for example, a thienyl, pyrryl,
   pyrazolyl, furyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl or
   thiazinyl radical which is each unsubstituted or substituted, for example, by halogen,
   cyano, nitro, CI-C 2 -alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, CI-C 4 -alkoxy, C 2 -C 4
10 alkanoyl, CI-C 4 -alkoxycarbonyl or unsubstituted or substituted phenyl.
           The term heterocyclyl may further denote a 3 to 6-membered heterocycloalkyl
   radical having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected from the group
   consisting of B, N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by one or more
   substituents as defined above for heterocyclyl. The heterocycloalkylene radical is
15 preferably substituted by 0 to 3, in particular 0, 1 or 2 substituents from the group as
   defined above. Examples are tetrahydrofuranyl, pyrrolidinyl, morpholinyl, piperidinyl,
   piperazinyl or dioxoborolanyl which is each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, C1
   C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl or CI-C 2-alkoxy.
           Examples of heterocyclyloxy are 2-, 3-or 4-pyridyloxy or pyrimidin-4-yloxy,
20 which is each unsustituted or substituted by by halogen, CI-C 2 -alkyl, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl,
   CI-C 2-haloalkyl or CI-C 2-alkoxy.
           Examples of heterobicyclic ring radicals are benzoxazolyl, benzothiazolyl,
   tetrahydro-benzothiazolyl, indolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzopyrazolyl, 5,6-dihydro-4H
   cyclopenta[b]thiophen-2-yl, methylenedioxoyphenyl, benzooxaboronyl, chinolinyl,
25 triazolopyrimidinonyl, for example 1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidin-7-one-5-yl, or
   phthalhydrazidyl, which may each be unsubstituted or substituted, for example, by
   halogen, cyano, C 1 -C 4-alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, hydroxy or C 1 -C2-alkoxy.
           Concerning the variables contained in the compounds of formula (I), the following
   meanings and preferences apply.
30
           The variable n is preferably 1 if A is a phenyl radical. The variable n is preferably
   0 if A is different from a phenyl radical, e.g. if A is CI-C 6 -alkyl, CI-C 6 -haloalkyl, C3 -C6 -

                                                  9
   cycloalkyl; C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; a 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl radical, a
   heteroaromatic radical, or a hetero-bicyclic ring radical.
           Preferred substituents of the phenyl radical A are halogen; CI-C 4-alkyl; C 1 -C4
   haloalkyl; amino; C1 -C 4-alkoxy; C1-C 4-haloalkoxy; C 1 -C 4-haloalkylthio; C 1 -C 4
 5 alkylsulfonyl; C 1 -C4-haloalkylsulfonyl; tri-C 1 -C2-alkylsilyl; C1-C4-alkoxycarbonyl; N
   mono- or NN-di-C1 -C 4-alkylaminocarbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N-mono- or N,N-di-C 1 -C 4
   alkylaminosulfonyl; N-C1 -C2 -alkyl-N-C1-C 4-alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; or 5- or
   6-membered heterocycloalkyl comprising 1 or 2 same or different heteroatoms selected
   from 0, S and N, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2
10 haloalkyl or CI-C 2-alkoxy.
           More preferred substituents of the phenyl radical A are halogen; CI-C 2 -alkyl; C1
   C 4-haloalkyl; amino; C1 -C 4-alkoxy; C 1 -C 4-haloalkoxy; C 1 -C 4-alkylsulfonyl; C 1 -C 4
   haloalkylsulfonyl; trimethylsilyl; C 1 -C4 -alkoxycarbonyl; N,N-di-C1 -C2 -alkylamino
   carbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N,N-di-C1-C 2-alkylaminosulfonyl; N-CI-C 2-alkyl-N-CI-C 4
15 alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; or a heterocycloalkyl radical selected from the group
   consisting of tetrahydrofuranyl, pyrrolidinyl, morpholinyl and piperidinyl.
           Especially preferred substituents of the phenyl radical A are halogen, CI-C 2-alkyl,
   CI-C 2-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxy, CI-C 2-haloalkoxy or cyano, and especially chlorine,
   fluorine or CF 3.
20          Specific preferred phenyl radicals A are 2-, 3- or 4-Cl-phenyl, 4-CF 3-phenyl, 3,5
   di-Cl-phenyl, 3,5-di-CF 3-phenyl, 2,4,6-tri-Cl-phenyl, 3,4,5-tri-Cl-phenyl, 2-Cl-4-CF 3
   phenyl, 2-CF 3-4-Cl-phenyl or 2,6-di-Cl-4-CF 3-phenyl, in particular 4-Cl-phenyl.
           A as CI-C 6 -alkyl is preferably CI-C 4-alkyl. A as haloalkyl is preferably C1 -C 2
   haloalkyl, in particular CF 3.
25         A as 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl is preferably a pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl,
   morpholinyl or dioxaborolanyl, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl.
           A as a heteroaromatic radical is preferably pyrryl, pyrazolyl,triazolyl, thienyl,
   thiazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl or pyrimidinyl , which is each unsubstituted or substituted by
   halogen, cyano, C 1 -C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxy, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, acetyl, propionyl, phenyl or
30 morpholin-4-yl-methyl. Particularly preferred meanings of A as heteroaromatic radical
   are 2-, 3- or 4-pyridyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, C 1 -C 2
   alkoxy, acetyl or propionyl; pyrimidinyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen

                                                10
   or acetyl; 1,2,4-triazol-5-yl which is unsubstituted or substituted by phenyl;, thienyl
   which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, acetyl or morpholin-4-yl-methyl;
   pyrazol-1-yl or -5-yl which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl; or thiazin-4-yl.
           A as a hetero-bicyclic ring radical is preferably indolyl, benzopyrazolyl or
 5 benzothiazol, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl.
           According to a preferred embodiment of the invention A is CI-C 4 -alkyl; C1 -C 2
   haloalkyl; heterocycloalkyl selected from pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl and
   dioxaborolanyl, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl; a heteroaromatic
   radical selected from pyrryl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, thienyl, thiazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl and
10 pyrimidinyl, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, CI-C 2-alkyl,
   CI-C 2-alkoxy, CI-C 2 -haloalkyl, acetyl, propionyl, phenyl or morpholin-4-yl-methyl; or a
   hetero-bicyclic ring radical selected from indolyl, benzopyrazolyl and benzothiazol,
   which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl.
           The variable R2 is preferably H.
15         T as alkyl radical is preferably CI-C 4-alkyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted
   by halogen, cyclopropyl, cyclohexyl, trimethylsilyl, carboxy or CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl.
   Particularly preferred meanings of T as alkyl radical are CI-C 4-alkyl; C1-C 3-haloalkyl, in
   particular CF3, -CH 2-CF 3 or -CH 2-CH 2-CF 3 ; trimethylsilyl-Cl-C2-alkyl; CI-C 2
   alkoxycarbonylmethyl; carboxymethyl; or cyclohexylmethyl; especially methyl.
20         T as C 3-C6-cycloalkyl, in preferably cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl.
           T as bicarbocyclyl is, for example, a bicycloalkylene or bicycloalkylenone radical,
   for example 1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptyl or 1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
   one-yl ((+)- or (-)-camphor).
           T as phenyl radical is preferably phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by
25 fluorine, chlorine, methyl, methoxy, CF3 or nitro.
           T as heteroaromatic radical is preferably pyridyl, thienyl or pyrimidinyl.
           T as heterocycloalkyl is preferably piperidinyl, piperazinyl, tetrahydropyranyl,
   morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl or thiomorpholin-4-yl- 1,1-dioxide, which is each
   unsubstituted or substituted by methyl or benzyloxycarbonyl. Particularly preferred
30 heterocyclyl radicals T are 1-methylpiperazin-4-yl, 1-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-piperazin-4-yl,
   tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl or, thiomorpholin-4-yl-1,1-dioxide.

                                                     11
             R 3 is preferably methyl, halophenyl, trifluoromethylpyridyl, tert.
   butoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yloxycarbonylmethyl.
             T is preferably C1 -C 4-alkyl; C 1 -C 3-haloalkyl; trimethylsilyl-C1-C 2-alkyl; C1 -C 2
   alkoxycarbonylmethyl; carboxymethyl; cyclohexylmethyl; C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl; 1,7,7
 5 trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptyl or 1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-one-yl ((+)- or (
   camphor); phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by fluorine, chlorine, methyl,
   methoxy, CF3 or nitro; pyridyl, thienyl or pyrimidinyl; heterocycloalkyl selected from
   piperidinyl, piperazinyl, tetrahydropyranyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl or
   thiomorpholin-4-yl- 1,1-dioxide, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl or
                                                0
                                                                 3
                                              -C2N          N-R
10 benzyloxycarbonyl; or a group                2                  wherein R 3 is methyl, halophenyl,
   trifluoromethylpyridyl, tert.-butoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yloxycarbonylmethyl.
             R0 is preferably H.
             Preferred substituents of the phenyl or phenylamino radical Y are halogen; C 1 -C 4
   alkyl; C 1 -C4-haloalkyl; C 3 -C 6-cycloalkyl; C 1 -C4-alkoxy; C1-C 4-haloalkoxy; C 1 -C 4
15 haloalkylthio; SF 5 ; NN-di-C1 -C 4-alkylamino-C1-C 4-alkylaminocarbonyl; N-C1 -C 4
   alkylsulfonylamino; cyano; nitro; hydroxy; B(OH) 2 or methylsulfonylamino.
             More preferred substituents of the phenyl or phenylamino radical Y are halogen;
   C 1 -C 2-alkyl; C 1 -C 3-haloalkyl; C1-C 2 -alkoxy; C 1 -C 3-haloalkoxy; C 1 -C2 -haloalkylthio; SF 5 ;
   cyano; nitro; hydroxy; or methylsulfonylamino.
20           Particularly preferred substituents of the phenyl or phenylamino radical Y
   halogen, methyl, C1-C 3-haloalkyl, methoxy, C1-C 3-haloalkoxy, SCF 3, SF 5, cyano, nitro or
   hydroxy and especially halogen or CF 3.
             A specific preferred phenyl radical Y is 3,4,5-trichlorophenyl, 3,5-di
   trifluoromethyl-4-chlorophenyl and 3,5-di-trifluoromethylphenyl.
25           A specific preferred phenylamino radical Y is phenyl amino which is substituted
   by chlorine, bromine, methyl trifluoromethyl, methoxy, cyano or nitro.
             A heteroaryl radical Y is, for example, pyrryl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, thienyl,
   thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyridyl or pyrimidinyl, which is each unsubstituted or
30 substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C 1 -C 2-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxy, C1 -C 2 -

                                                12
   alkoxycarbonyl, or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is in turn each unsubstituted or
   substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro methyl or methoxy.
           A heteroaryl radical Y is preferably 2-, 3- or 4-pyridyl which is unsubstituted or
   substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or CI-C 2-alkoxy; 2-thienyl, which is unsubstituted or
 5 substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or C1-C2-alkoxycarbonyl; 2-thiazolyl, which is unsubstituted or
   substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl,
   or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is in turn each unsubstituted opr substituted by
   halogen, cyano, nitro or methyl; 5-isothiazoyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by
   halogen or methyl; 2-oxazolyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or C1
10 C 2-haloalkyl; or 1,3,4-thiadiazol-5-yl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by C1 -C2
   alkyl or CI-C 2 -haloalkyl.
           A heteroarylamino radical Y is preferably 2-, 3- or 4-pyridylamino, which is
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or CI-C 2-alkoxy.
           A benzoyl or heteroarylcarbonyl radical Y is preferably benzoyl, which is
15 unsubstituted or substituted by halogen; or 2-, 3- or 4-pyridylcarbonyl which is
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or CI-C 4-alkyl.
           A preferred bicarbocyclic radical Y is preferably a radical            , a radical
    HC    CH,
          CH, orindanyl.
           A preferred heterobicyclic ring radical Y is benzothiazolyl, indolyl, chinolinyl,
20 methylenedioxophenyl, benzooxaboronyl, triazolopyrimidinonyl or phthalhydrazidyl,
   which is each be unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 2 -haloalkyl,
   CI-C 4-alkoxy or hydroxy.
           The variable R4 is preferably propynyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl or cyanomethyl.
           A preferred radical Y is thus (i) phenyl or phenylamino which is substituted by
25 halogen, CI-C 2-alkyl, C1-C 3-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxy, C1-C 3-haloalkoxy, C 1 -C 2
   haloalkylthio, SF 5, cyano, nitro, hydroxy or methylsulfonylamino; (iia) heteroaryl
   selected from 2-, 3- or 4-pyridyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, C 1 -C 4
   alkyl or CI-C 2 -alkoxy, 2-thienyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or

                                                   13
   C1-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl, 2-thiazolyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen,
   cyano, nitro, CI-C 2 -alkyl, C1-C 2-haloalkyl, C1-C 2 -alkoxycarbonyl, or phenyl or
   phenylsulfonyl which is in turn each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro
   or methyl, 5-isothiazoyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or methyl, 2
 5 oxazolyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or C1-C 2-haloalkyl, or
   1,3,4-thiadiazol-5-yl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or C1 -C 2
   haloalkyl; (iib) heteroarylamino selected from 2-, 3- or 4-pyridylamino, which is
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, C1-C 4 -alkyl or C1-C 2-alkoxy; (iii) benzoyl, which
   is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, or 2-, 3- or 4-pyridylcarbonyl which is
10 unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or CI-C 4-alkyl; (iv) a bicarbocyclic radical
                                                    HC   CH3
   selected from a radical             , a radical       CH3 and indanyl; (v) a heterobicyclic ring
   radical selected from benzothiazolyl, indolyl, chinolinyl, methylenedioxophenyl,
   benzooxaboronyl, triazolopyrimidinonyl and phthalhydrazidyl, which is each be
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl, C1-C 2-haloalkyl, C1-C 4 -alkoxy or
15 hydroxy; or (vi) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-R 4 , wherein R 4 is propynyl, 2,2,2
   trifluoroethyl or cyanomethyl.
            If R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached, form a
   piperidinyl or piperazinyl radical, said piperidinyl or piperazinyl radical is preferably
   substituted by methyl; methoxy; halogen-, amino-, methoxy- or trifluoromethyl
20 substituted phenyl or benzoylamino; or halogen-, trifluoromethyl- and/or cyclopropyl
   substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
            One embodiment of the present invention concerns a compound of formula
                                                     0
                                                        N
                                                        H
                                                     NH-SO2CH3
                                                                                    (Ia),
   wherein n has the above-given meaning including the preferences, Y' is phenyl which is
25 substituted as mentioned above including the preferences; and A' is CI-C 6 -alkyl; C1 -C6
   haloalkyl; C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl; C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl
   having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of B,

                                                 14
   N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1
   C 4-alkoxy; a heteroaromatic radical, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by
   halogen, cyano, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4-haloalkyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy, C1-C 4 -haloalkoxy, C 1 -C 4
   alkanoyl, 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl-C1-C 2-alkyl or unsubstituted or halogen-,
 5 CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4 -alkoxy-substituted phenyl; or is a hetero-bicyclic ring radical
   comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from which 1 to 5, preferably 1 or 2,
   members are same or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of B, N, 0
   and S, and from which 0 to 2 members are a group -C(O)-, which bicyclic ring radical is
   further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy, C 1 -C 4
10 alkyl or C1-C 4 -haloalkyl.
           A compound of formula (Ia), wherein Y' is phenyl which is substituted by 2 or 3
   same or different radicals selected from halogen or CF 3; and A' is CI-C 4-alkyl; CF3 ;
   pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl or dioxaborolanyl, which is each unsubstituted or
   substituted by methyl; pyrryl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, thienyl, thiazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl or
15 pyrimidinyl , which is each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, CI-C 2-alkyl,
   CI-C 2-alkoxy, C1-C 2 -haloalkyl, acetyl, propionyl, phenyl or morpholin-4-yl-methyl; or
   indolyl, benzopyrazolyl or benzothiazolyl, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by
   methyl or methoxy; and n is 0 or 1, in particular 1; is especially preferred.
           A further preferred embodiment of the present invention concerns a compound of
20 formula
                                            0
                       A                       2H
                                             NR2-SO2-
                                                                   (Ib),
   wherein A is phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted as mentioned above including
   the preferences, Y is phenyl which is substituted as mentioned above including the
25 preferences, T is C 2 -C6 -alkyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen,
   trimethylsilyl, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, carboxy or C 1 -C4 -alkoxycarbonyl; C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl; C6
   C12-bicarbocyclyl ; phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro,
   CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 4-haloalkyl or CI-C 4 -alkoxy; a 5- or 6 membered heteroaromatic radical,
   which is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4-alkyl or CI-C 4 -alkoxy;

                                                  15
   amino; N-mono- or NN-di- CI-C 4-alkylamino; 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl
   having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N,
   0, S and S(02), which is further unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl; or a group
    -CH   2    N       N-R
          Chy\-ubstute      , and R3 is Ci-C 4-alkyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or
 5 C1-C4-haloalkyl-substituted phenyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4 -alkyl- or C 1 -C 4
   haloalkyl-substituted pyridyl, C 1 -C 4-alkoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yl
   carbonylmethyl.
            A preferred embodiment relates to a compound of formula (Ib), wherein A is
   phenyl which is unsubstituted or preferably mono-substituted by chlorine, fluorine or
10 CF 3, Y is phenyl which is substituted by 2 or 3 same or different radicals selected from
   halogen or CF 3, and T is C 2 -C 4 -alkyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen,
   cyclopropyl, cyclohexyl, trimethylsilyl, carboxy or CI-C 2 -alkoxycarbony; cyclopropyl or
   cyclohexyl; the radical of (+)- or (-)-camphor; phenyl which is unsubstituted or
   substituted by fluorine, chlorine, methyl, methoxy, CF3 or nitro; or pyridyl, thienyl or
15 pyrimidinyl; piperidinyl, piperazinyl, tetrahydropyranyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl or
   thiomorpholin-4-yl- 1,1-dioxide, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by methyl or
   benzyloxycarbonyl.
            A further preferred embodiment of the present invention concerns a compound of
   formula
                                              0
                            0                         Y"
                        A                        N    R0
                                 e.                   R
20                                            NH-S0 2-CH3                                  (Ic),
   wherein A is phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted as mentioned above including
   the preferences, R0 is H or hydroxyl; and Y" is
            (i) 5- or 6 membered heteroaryl or heteroarylamino, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1
25 C 4-alkoxy, CI-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, CI-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is
   each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro methyl or methoxy; or is

                                                  16
           (ii) benzoyl or 5- or 6 membered heteroarylcarbonyl, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1
   C 4-alkoxy, CI-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, CI-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl; or is
           (iii) a C 6-C 12-bicarbocyclic radical; or is a
 5         (iv) a hetero-bicyclic ring radical comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from
   which 1 to 5, preferably 1 or 2, are same or different heteroatoms selected from the group
   consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from which 0 to 2 are a group -C(O)-, which bicyclic
   ring radical is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl, C 1 -C 4
   alkyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy or C1-C 4-haloalkyl; or is
10         (v) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-R 4 , wherein R4 is C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C 2-C 3 -alkynyl or
   cyano-CI-C 4-alkyl; or R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached,
   form a piperidinyl or piperazinyl radical which is substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, C 1 -C 4
   alkoxy, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl-, halo- CI-C 4-alkyl-, amino- and/or C 1 -C 4
   alkoxy-substituted phenyl or benzoylamino, or unsubstituted or CI-C 4-alkyl-, C 1 -C 4
15 haloalkyl-, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl- or halogen-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
           Concerning a preferred embodiment of the compounds of formula (Ic), A is
   phenyl which is unsubstituted or preferably mono-substituted by chlorine, fluorine or
   CF 3; R is H, and Y" is
           (i) 2-, 3- or 4-pyridyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl
20 or CI-C 2-alkoxy; 2-thienyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl, C1 -C2
   alkoxycarbonyl; 2-thiazolyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano,
   nitro, CI-C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl, or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl
   which is in turn each unsubstituted opr substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro or methyl; 5
   isothiazoyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or methyl; 2-oxazolyl, which
25 is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or CI-C 2-haloalkyl; or 1,3,4-thiadiazol-5-yl,
   which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or CI-C 2 -haloalkyl; 2-, 3- or 4
   pyridylamino, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1 -C2
   alkoxy; or
           (ii) benzoyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or 2-, 3- or 4
30 pyridylcarbonyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or CI-C 4 -alkyl; or

                                                  17
                                                 HC   CH,
           (iii) a radical          , a radical       CHor   indanyl; or
           (iv) benzothiazolyl, indolyl, chinolinyl, methylenedioxophenyl, benzooxaboronyl,
   triazolopyrimidinonyl or phthalhydrazidyl, which is each be unsubstituted or substituted
   by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl or hydroxy; or
 5         (v) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-CH 2-C--CH, -H 2C-C(O)-NH-CH 2 -CN or -H 2 C
   C(O)-NH-CH 2-CF 3 ;or R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached,
   form a piperidinyl or piperazinyl radical, which is substituted by methyl; methoxy;
   halogen-, amino-, methoxy- or trifluoromethyl-substituted phenyl or benzoylamino; or
   halogen-, trifluoromethyl- and/or cyclopropyl-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
10         A salt of a compound or formula (I) may be produced in known manner. Acid
   addition salts, for example, are obtainable by treatment with a suitable acid or a suitable
   ion exchange reagent, and salts with bases are obtainable by treatment with a suitable
   base or a suitable ion exchange reagent.
           Salts of compounds of formula (I) can be converted into the free compounds by
15 the usual means, acid addition salts e.g. by treating with a suitable basic composition or
   with a suitable ion exchange reagent, and salts with bases e.g. by treating with a suitable
   acid or a suitable ion exchange reagent.
           Salts of compounds of formula (I) can be converted into other salts of compounds
   of the formula (I) in a known manner; acid addition salts can be converted for example
20 into other acid addition salts, e.g. by treating a salt of an inorganic acid, such as a
   hydrochloride, with a suitable metal salt, such as a sodium, barium, or silver salt, of an
   acid, e.g. with silver acetate, in a suitable solvent, in which a resulting inorganic salt, e.g.
   silver chloride, is insoluble and thus precipitates out from the reaction mixture.
           Depending on the method and/or reaction conditions, the compounds of formula
25 (I) with salt-forming characteristics can be obtained in free form or in the form of salts.
   Compounds of formula (I) can also be obtained in the form of their hydrates and/or also
   can include other solvents, used for example where necessary for the crystallisation of
   compounds present in solid form.
           As mentioned before, the compounds of formula (I) may be optionally present as
30 optical and/or geometric isomers or as a mixture thereof. The invention relates both to

                                               18
   the pure isomers and to all possible isomeric mixtures, and is hereinbefore and hereinafter
   understood as doing so, even if stereochemical details are not specifically mentioned in
   every case.
           Diastereoisomeric mixtures of compounds of formula (I), which are obtainable by
 5 the process or in another way, may be separated in known manner, on the basis of the
   physical-chemical differences in their components, into the pure diastereoisomers, for
   example by fractional crystallisation, distillation and/or chromatography.
           Splitting of mixtures of enantiomers, that are obtainable accordingly, into the pure
   isomers, may be achieved by known methods, for example by recrystallisation from an
10 optically active solvent, by chromatography on chiral adsorbents, e.g. high-pressure liquid
   chromatography (HPLC) on acetyl cellulose, with the assistance of appropriate micro
   organisms, by cleavage with specific immobilised enzymes, through the formation of
   inclusion compounds, e.g. using chiral crown ethers, whereby only one enantiomer is
   complexed.
15         The compounds of the formula (I), wherein n is 0, may be prepared, for example,
   by reaction of a compound of formula
                                      0
                       LG                    Y
                                           NRO
                                         2
                                      NR - S(0) 2- T              (11)
   wherein R0 , R 2, T and Y are each as defined above and LG is a leaving group, for
   example halogen such as bromine, with a compound of formula
20                          A    B(OH) 2                          (
   in the presence of a palladium catalyst, wherein A is defined above. The details of this
   palladium-catalyzed carbon-carbon bond forming reaction, called Suzuki reaction, are
   known from textbooks of organic chemistry.
25         The compounds of formula (II) are known or may be prepared according to
   known processes, for example by reacting a compound of formula

                                              19
                                           0
                           LG
                                               LG'
                                           NR- S(0) 2-T                               (IV)
   with a compound of formula
                                         Y
                                  NHR0
                                                                               (V),
   wherein LG' is a leaving group, for example halogen, CI-C 2-alkoxy or hydroxyl, and the
 5 further variables each have the above mentioned meaning. The amide formation from an
   carboxylic acid or an derivative thereof with an amine is known from textbooks of
   organic chemistry. The compounds of formula (IV) are known or may be prepared
   according to known processes, for example by reacting the corresponding amine with
   methane sulfonyl chloride in known manner. The componds of formula (III) and (V) are
10 known compounds which are commercially available.
           Certain compounds of the formula (I), wherein n is 0, may also be prepared, for
   example, by reaction of a compound of formula
                                      0
                      LG
                                         NR -Y
                                      NR2- S(0) 2- T
                                                                (Ila)
   wherein R0 , R 2, T and Y are each as defined above and LG is a leaving group, for
15 example halogen such as bromine or chlorine, with a compound of formula
                                  H
                                     A*,-"           H(lla),
   wherein A* is a heterocyclic radical A and the H-atom is attached to a heteroatom, for
   example N or 0, by way of an electrophilic substitution at the phenyl ring. The
20 compounds of formula (Ila) may be obtained in analogy to the compounds of formula of
   formula (II) above.
           The compounds of the formula (I), wherein n is 1, may be prepared, for example,
   by reaction of a compound of formula

                                                 20
                                              0
                             LG                       y
                                                   NR
                                              NO 2
                                                                (VI)
   with a compound of formula
                                             1-1OH
                                                 A OH           (VII),
   wherein the variables are as defined above, followed by the reduction of the nitro group
 5 and further reacting the resulting amine with methane sulfonyl chloride. The details of
   these reactions are known from textbooks of organic chemistry. The compounds of
   formula (VI) may be prepared in analogy to the compounds of formula (II). The
   compounds of formula (VII) are known per se and are commercially available.
           The compounds of the formula (I), wherein n is 1 may also be prepared by
10 reaction of a compound of formula
                                                   0
                             A                          LG'
                                                   NO 2         (VIII)
   with a compound of formula
                                                            Y
                                                     NHR 0
                                                                               (V,
15 wherein the variables each have the above given meaning, followed by the reduction of
   the nitro group and further reacting the resulting amine with methane sulfonyl chloride. In
   the alternative, the nitro group of the compound of formula (VIII) may first of all be
   reduced and the resulting amino group be reacted with methane sulfonyl chloride, before
   the reaction with the compound of formula (V) is performed.
20         The compounds of formula (VIII) may be prepared in a manner known per se, for
   example by reaction of a compound of formula

                                                21
                 0
    LG
                      LG'                                             H
                  NO2        (IX) with a compound of formula A          (VIIa).
           The Examples further illustrate the different synthesis methods.
 5         The compounds of formula (I) according to the invention are notable for their
   broad activity spectrum and are valuable active ingredients for use in pest control,
   including in particular the control of endoparasites, especially helminths, in and on warm
   blooded animals, especially productive livestock and pets, whilst being well-tolerated by
   warm-blooded animals and fish.
10         Productive livestock includes mammals such as, for example, cattle, horses,
   sheep, pigs, goats, donkeys, rabbits, deer, as well as birds, for example chickens, geese,
   turkeys, ducks and exotic birds.
           Pets include, for example, dogs, cats and hamsters, in particular dogs and cats.
   The compounds of formula (I) of the present invention are effective against helminths, in
15 which the endoparasitic nematodes and trematodes may be the cause of serious diseases
   of mammals and poultry. Typical nematodes of this indication are: Filariidae,Setariidae,
   Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus,Ostertagia,Nematodirus, Cooperia,Ascaris,
   Bunostonum, Oesophagostonum, Charbertia,Trichuris, Strongylus, Trichonema,
   Dictyocaulus, Capillaria,Heterakis, Toxocara,Ascaridia, Oxyuris, Ancylostoma,
20 Uncinaria,Toxascaris and Parascaris.The trematodes include, in particular, the family
   of Fasciolideae,especially Fasciolahepatica (liver fluke).
           It could also be shown surprisingly and unexpectedly that the compositions of the
   present invention have exceptionally high efficacy against nematodes that are resistant to
   many active substances. This can be demonstrated, for example in vitro by the LDA test.
25         Certain pests of the species Nematodirus, Cooperia and Oesophagostonum infest
   the intestinal tract of the host animal, while others of the species Haemonchus and
   Ostertagiaare parasitic in the stomach and those of the species Dictyocaulus are parasitic
   in the lung tissue. Parasites of the families and may be found in the internal cell tissue and
   in the organs, e.g. the heart, the blood vessels, the lymph vessels and the subcutaneous

                                                22
   tissue. A particularly notable parasite is the heartworm of the dog, Dirofilariaimmitis.
   The compounds of formula (I) according to the present invention are highly effective
   against these parasites.
           The pests which may be controlled by the compounds of formula (I) of the
 5 present invention also include those from the class of Cestoda (tapeworms), e.g. the
   families Mesocestoidae, especially of the genus Mesocestoides, in particular M. lineatus;
   Dipylidiidae,especially Dipylidium caninum, Joyeuxiella spp., in particular Joyeuxiella
   pasquali,and Diplopylidium spp., and Taeniidae,especially Taeniapisiformis, Taenia
   cervi, Taenia ovis, Taeneia hydatigena, Taenia multiceps,Taenia taeniaeformis,Taenia
10 serialis,and Echinococcus spp., most preferably Taneia hydatigena, Taenia ovis, Taenia
   multiceps, Taenia serialis;Echinococcusgranulosus and Echinococcus multilocularis.
           Furthermore, the compounds of formula (I) are suitable for the control of human
   pathogenic parasites. Of these, typical representatives that appear in the digestive tract are
   those of the genus Ancylostoma, Necator,Ascaris, Strongyloides, Trichinella,Capillaria,
15 Trichuris and Enterobius. The compounds of the present invention are also effective
   against parasites of the genus Wuchereria,Brugia, Onchocercaand Loa from the family
   of Dracunculusand parasites of the genus Strongyloides and Trichinella,which infect
   the gastrointestinal tract in particular.
           The good endoparasiticidal activity of the compounds of formula (I) corresponds
20 to a mortality rate of at least 50-60%, in particular at least 80% and especially at least
   90% of the endoparasites mentioned.
           Administration of the compounds of formula (I) according to the invention may
   be effected therapeutically or preferably prophylactically.
           Application of the compounds of formula (I) according to the invention to the
25 animals to be treated may take place, for example, topically, perorally, parenterally or
   subcutaneously. A preferred embodiment of the invention relates to compounds of
   formula (I) for parenteral use or, in particular, for peroral use.
           Preferred application forms for usage on warm-blooded animals in the control of
   nematodes/ helminths comprise solutions; emulsions including classical emulsions,
30 microemulsions and self-emulsifying compositions, that are waterless organic, preferably
   oily, compositions which form emulsions - together with body fluids - upon addition to
   an animal body; suspensions (drenches); pour-on formulations; food additives; powders;

                                                23
   tablets including effervescent tablets; boli; capsules including micro-capsules; and
   chewable treats; whereby the physiological compatibility of the formulation excipients
   must be taken into consideration. Particularly preferred application forms are tablets,
   capsules, food additives or chewable treats.
 5         The compounds of formula (I) of the present invention are employed in
   unmodified form or preferably together with adjuvants conventionally used in the art of
   formulation and may therefore be processed in a known manner to give, for example,
   emulsifiable concentrates, directly dilutable solutions, dilute emulsions, soluble powders,
   powder mixtures, granules or microencapsulations in polymeric substances. As with the
10 compositions, the methods of application are selected in accordance with the intended
   objectives and the prevailing circumstances.
           The formulation, i.e. the agents, preparations or compositions containing the one
   or more active ingredients and optionally a solid or liquid adjuvant, are produced in a
   manner known per se, for example by intimately mixing and/or grinding the active
15 ingredients with the adjuvants, for example with solvents, solid carriers and/or surface
   active compounds (surfactants).
           The solvents in question may be: alcohols, such as ethanol, propanol or butanol,
   and glycols and their ethers and esters, such as propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol
   ether, ethylene glycol, ethylene glycol monomethyl or -ethyl ether, ketones, such as
20 cyclohexanone, isophorone or diacetanol alcohol, strong polar solvents, such as N
   methyl-2-pyrrolidone, dimethyl sulfoxide or dimethylformamide, or water, vegetable oils,
   such as rape, castor, coconut, or soybean oil, and also, if appropriate, silicone oils.
            Suitable surfactants are, for example, non-ionic surfactants, such as, for example,
   nonylphenolpolyethoxyethanols; castor oil polyglycol ethers, for example macrogol
25 glycerolhydroxystearate 40; polyethylene glycols; polypropylene/polyethylene oxide
   adducts; or fatty acid esters of polyoxyethylene sorbitan, e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan
   monooleate.
            Solid carriers, for example for tablets and boli, may be chemically modified
   polymeric natural substances that are soluble in water or in alcohol, such as starch,
30 cellulose or protein derivatives (e.g. methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose,
   ethylhydroxyethyl cellulose, proteins such as zein, gelatin and the like), as well as
   synthetic polymers, such as polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone etc. The tablets also

                                                24
   contain fillers (e.g. starch, microcrystalline cellulose, sugar, lactose etc.), glidants and
   disintegrants.
           If the anthelminthics are present in the form of feed concentrates, then the carriers
   used are e.g. performance feeds, feed grain or protein concentrates. Such feed
 5 concentrates or compositions may contain, apart from the active ingredients, also
   additives, vitamins, antibiotics, chemotherapeutics or other pesticides, primarily
   bacteriostats, fungistats, coccidiostats, or even hormone preparations, substances having
   anabolic action or substances which promote growth, which affect the quality of meat of
   animals for slaughter or which are beneficial to the organism in another way.
10         Suitable compositions of the compounds of formula (I) may also contain further
   additives, such as stabilisers, antioxidants, for example tocopherols like a-tocopherol,
   anti-foaming agents, viscosity regulators, binding agents, colors or tackifiers, as well as
   other active ingredients, in order to achieve special effects. Preferably, the composition
   comprises from 0.001 to 1 % w/v of one or more antioxidants. If desired, the formulations
15 of the present invention may comprise a color, for example in an amount of from 0.001 to
   1 % w/v.
           As a rule, an anthelminthic composition according to the invention contains 0.1 to
   99 % by weight, especially 0.1 to 95 % by weight of a compound of formula (I), 99.9 to
   1 % by weight, especially 99.8 to 5 % by weight of a solid or liquid admixture, including
20 0 to 25 % by weight, especially 0.1 to 25 % by weight of a surfactant.
           In each of the processes according to the invention for pest control or in each of
   the pest control compositions according to the invention, the compounds of formula (I)
   can be used in all of their steric configurations or in mixtures thereof.
           The invention also includes a method of prophylactically protecting warm
25 blooded animals, especially productive livestock and pets, in particular dogs or cats,
   against parasitic helminths, which is characterised in that a compound of formula (I) or
   the active ingredient formulation prepared therefrom is administered to the warm-blooded
   animal as an additive to the feed, or to the drinks or also in solid or liquid form, orally or
   by injection or parenterally. The invention also includes the compounds of formula (I)
30 according to the invention for usage in one of the said processes.
           The compounds of formula (I) according to the invention may be used alone or in
   combination with other biocides. They may be combined with pesticides having the same

                                                 25
   sphere of activity e.g. to increase activity, or with substances having another sphere of
   activity e.g. to broaden the range of activity. It can also be sensible to add so-called
   repellents.
           The following Examples illustrate the invention further.
 5         Analysis of the purified samples is in each case done using a Waters
   Autopurification (HPLC/MS) system with a reversed phase column using method B
   described below. The samples are characterized by m/z and retention time. The above
   given retention times relate in each case to the use of a solvent system comprising two
   different solvents, solvent A: H 2 0 + 0.0 1% HCOOH, and solvent B: CH 3CN + 0.0 1%
10 HCOOH).
        -  Method B: column Waters XTerra MS C18 5pm, 50X4.6mm (Waters), flow rate
           of 3.00 mL/min with a time-dependent gradient as given in the Table:
                            Time [min]        A [%]        B [%]
                                  0             90            10
                                 0.5            90            10
                                 2.5             5           95
                                 2.8             5           95
                                 2.9            90            10
                                 3.0            90            10
15                                          Example 1A
    Synthesis of 2-(methylsulfonamido)-5-morpholino-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
                                         (Ex.1.2 in Table 1)
   Step A: 5-chloro-2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl) benzamide.
20 5-chloro-2-nitrobenzoic acid (10 g) was treated with thionyl chloride (7.2 mL) at reflux
   for 4h. Excess SOC12 was removed under vacuum. CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) was added to the
   acyl chloride. At 00 C, 3,4,5-trichloroaniline (9.7 g) and NEt 3 (13.8 mL) in 100 mL
   CH 2 Cl2 were added slowly. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm up and it was
   stirred at rt (room temperature) overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with 200 mL

                                               26
   diethyl ether. 10 mL HCl 2 N and 200 mL H 2 0 were added, and the mixture was stirred
   until a yellow precipitate is formed. The precipitate was filtered off and dried under high
   vacuum before analysis (yield: 66%). LCMS (method B): 380.59 (M+H)+ at 1.97 min.
 5 Step B: 5-morpholino-2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
   To a solution of 300 mg of 5-chloro-2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide in 1.5
   mL DMF, was added morpholine (206 pL). The reaction mixture was heated at 110 C for
   1.5 h. After work-up and extraction with AcOEt, the mixture was evaporated to dryness.
   The title compound was pure enough to be engaged in step B. (yield: 71%). LCMS
10 (method B): 427.7 (M-H)- at 1.81 min.
   Step C: 2-amino-5-morpholino-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
   Under N 2 , 5-morpholino-2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide      (230 mg) in 4 mL
   EtOH/H 20 (3/1) was treated with Fe (208 mg) and HCl 25% (4 PL) and the reaction
15 mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h. When the reduction was completed, the reaction mixture
   was filtered on a plug of celite and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was evaporated
   under vacuum. Ethyl acetate was added, and the organic layer was washed with brine,
   dried over MgSO 4 , and evaporated to dryness (yield: 95%). LCMS (method B): 399.68
   (M+H)+ at 1.61 min.
20
   Step D: 2-(methylsulfonamido)-5-morpholino-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
   A N 2 degassed solution of 2-amino-5-morpholino-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
   (193 mg) in 3 mL CH2 Cl 2 , pyridine (0.194 mL) was added. The mixture was cooled to
   00 C before the drop wise addition of methane sulfonyl chloride (0.037 mL). The reaction
25 mixture was stirred overnight at rt, then diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic
   layer was washed with a saturated solution of Na 2 CO 3, with brine, then dried over MgSO 4
   and evaporated to dryness (yield: 43%). LCMS (method B): 477.7 (M+H)+ at 1.78 min.
                                           Example 1B
30    N-(3,5-bis (trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-5-(2-fluoropyridin-3-yl)-2-(methylsulfonamido)
                                   benzamide (Ex.1.14 in Table 1)

                                                27
   Step A: methyl 5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoate.
   A N 2 degassed solution of methyl 2-amino-5-bromobenzoate (2.8 g) in 10 mL 1 pyridine
   was cooled to 00 C before the drop wise addition of methane sulfonyl chloride (0.9 mL).
   The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at rt, then diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate.
 5 The organic layer was washed with a saturated solution of Na 2 CO 3, with brine, then dried
   over MgSO 4 and evaporated to dryness (yield: 82%). LCMS (method B): 305.6 (M-H)- at
   1.55 min.
   Step B: 5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido)benzoic acid
10 Methyl 5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoate (3.15 g) was suspended in THF (20
   mL, 1/1). NaOH 4 N (6.9 mL) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred 4h at
   reflux. Upon completion, the reaction mixture was treated with 2N HCl (ImL) and
   extracted twice with ethyl acetate. Combined organic layers were washed with H 2 0,
   brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered and evaporated to dryness. The title product was pure
15 enough by LCMS to be engaged into next step without further purification. (yield: 66%)
   LCMS (method B): 291.64 (M-H)- at 1.2 min.
   Step C: N-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido)benzamide.
   5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoic acid (2.4 g) was treated with thionyl chloride
20 (23 mL) at reflux for 4h. Excess SOCl 2 was removed under vacuum. CH 2 Cl2 (20 mL) was
   added to the acyl chloride. At 00 C, 3,5-bis(trifluoromethly)aniline (1.4 mL) and NEt3
   (5.68 mL) in 10 mL CH 2 Cl2 were added slowly. The reaction mixture was allowed to
   warm up and it was stirred at rt overnight.
   The reaction mixture was diluted with 30 mL CH 2 Cl2 . 20 mL HCl 2 N and 20 mL H 2 0
25 were added, and the mixture was stirred until a yellow precipitate is formed. The
   precipitate was filtered off and dried under high vacuum before analysis (yield: 67%).
   LCMS (method B): 502.93 (M-H)- at 1.99 min.
   Step D: N-(3,5-bis (trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-5-(2-fluoropyridin-3-yl)-2
30 (methylsulfonamido) benzamide.
   To a solution of N-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-5-bromo-2-(methylsulfonamido)
   benzamide (0.2 g) and 2-Fluoro-3-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyridine

                                                  28
   (133 mg) under N2 in dioxane/H 20 (6 mL, 1/1) was added Na2CO 3 (252 mg),
   Pd(dppf)Cl 2.CH 2Cl 2 (355 mg). The reaction mixture was stirred for 3h at 80'C. It was
   diluted with ethyl acetate, filtered through celite. The filtrate was washed with H 2 0,
   brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered and evaporated to dryness.
 5 The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography eluting with a gradient of 100%
   heptane to 60% heptane/40% ethyl acetate to offer the title compound in 25% yield.
   LCMS (method C): 521.8 (M+H)* at 1.90 min.
           The substances named in the following Table 1 are prepared analogously to the
   above-described methods. The compounds are of formula
                                                 0            N
                                 A               O! N    0(R')r
                                                      N
                                                      H
10                                               NH-SO2CH3
   wherein the meaning of A and (R)r is given in Table 1.
           The following physical data are obtained according to the above-described
   HPLC/MS characterization process (method B). Rt refers to "retention time".
15 Table 1:
     Ex.                                                        m/z:       Rt [min]      Physical
    No.                 A                       (R)             [M+H']   (Method B)         state
     1.2        Morpholin-4-yl              3,4,5-tri-Cl          477.7      1.78           Solid
     1.3    4-Methylpiperazin-1-yl          3,4,5-tri-Cl          490.9      1.29           Solid
     1.4          Thiazin-4-yl              3,4,5-tri-Cl          493.7      1.97           Solid
     1.5        Pyrrolidin-1-yl             3,4,5-tri-Cl          461.7      2.04          Foam
     1.6          Pyrazol-1-yl              3,4,5-tri-Cl          458.8      1.89         Powder
     1.7            Isopropyl                3,5-di-CF 3          468.8      2.07         Powder
     1.8               CF3                   3,5-di-CF 3          494.5      1.99            Oil
                       CH
                          3
                H30 _       \.
     1.9        H3
                H3 0-       /
                               B
                                             3,5-di-CF 3          552.9      2.22         Powder
                       CH
                          3

                                       29
1.10   H3                         3,5-di-CF 3 550.7 1,99 Powder
                   CHH
             N
                   CH,
                CH,
1.12         N                    3,5-di-CF   506.7 1.79 Powder
1.13 O      N-CH2                             607.9 1.27  Resin
         0   -/NC'2 s             3,5-di-CF3
1.14        N     L               3,5-di-CF 3 521.8 1.90 Powder
               F
1.15     N                        3,5-di-CF 3 542.8 1.85 Powder
           H
1.16                              3,5-di-CF 3 521.7 1.94 Powder
1.17     F3                       3,5-di-CF 3 571.7 2.06  Foam
                  ~               3,5-di-CF,
1.18      CI N   ~                            537.7 2.00 Powder
1.19        N          I3,5-di-CF           3 571.6 2.10 Powder
              2   C               3,5-di-CF3  551.7 2.06 Powder
1.21    H3CO                      3,5-di-CF 3 533.7 2.02 Powder

                                 30
1.22    ci                  3,5-di-CF 3 538.7 1.93 Powder
                 N,
1.23  H3       N      .
                            3,5-di-CF3  534.7 1.85 Powder
1.24                        3,5-di-CF3  504.8 1.71 Powder
                         CI
1.25                        3,5-di-CF 3 537.8 1.90  Solid
                    CH3
1.26           N            3,5-di-CF 3 537.8 1.89  Foam
        H3 C        S
1.27  C-H2C-
     H3                     3,5-di-CF 3 548.0 2.08 Powder
        NC
1.28       N                3,5-di-CF 3 529.0 1.89 Powder
1.29       N        L       3,5-di-CF 3 537.9 1.94 Powder
               cI
1.30    C                   3,5diCF3    542.9 2.28 Powder
                        'N
1.31   F    F3 C NC
                            3,5-di-CF 3 572.9 2.11 Powder
               CF3
1.32       N                3,5-di-CF 3 571.8 2.05 Powder
1.33       N                3,5-di-CF 3 537.7 1.99  Resin

                                              31
                                           Example 2
             5-phenoxy-2-(phenylsulfonamido)-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
                                       (Ex.2.2 in Table 2)
 5 Step A: 2-nitro-5-phenoxy-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide.
   5-Chloro-2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl) benzamide (29.1 g), K2 C0 3 (21.3 g) and
   phenol (8 g) in DMA were heated at 140'C during 14h. The reaction mixture was poured
   in H 20 (100 mL), the precipitate was filtered off, dried under high vacuum to afford a
   brown solid (yield: 80%). LCMS (method B): 436.6 (M-H)- at 2.14 min.
10
   Step B: 2-amino-5-phenoxy-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide
   2-nitro-5-phenoxy-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)benzamide treated with iron in a similar
   manner as described for step C Example 1 (yield: 27%). LCMS (method B): 406.7
   (M+H)* at 2.28 min.
15
   Step C: 5-(4-Chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido)-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)
   benzamide
           To N 2 degassed solution of 2-amino-5-phenoxy-N-(3,4,5
   trichlorophenyl)benzamide (0.26 mg) in 2mL of CH2 C12 , pyridine (0.25 mL) was added.
20 The mixture was cooled to 00 C before the drop wise addition of benzene sulfonyl chloride
   (0.124 mg). The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at rt, then diluted with additional
   5 mL CH 2C12 . The organic layer was washed with a saturated solution of Na2CO 3, with
   brine, then dried over MgSO 4 and evaporated to dryness (yield: 81%). LCMS (method
   B): 546.7 (M+H)+ at 2.39 min.
25         The substances named in the following Table 2 are prepared analogously to the
   above-described methods. The compounds are of formula
                                                                    CI
                                                                          CI
                                6       0                    N            CI
                       (R)                                   H
                           4         2                   NR 2-SO2-T
                                3

                                               32
  wherein the meaning of (R1 )r, (R)m, and X are given in Table 2
  The following physical data are obtained according to the above-described HPLC/MS
  characterization process (Method B).
5 Table 2:
    Ex.                                                   R2      m/z:       Rt  Physical
   No.       (R)m                    T                            [M+H']   [min]   state
    2.1      4-Cl              4-CH 3-phenyl                       594.6    2.22  Powder
    2.2       H                   phenyl                  H        546.7    2.39  Powder
    2.3      4-Cl          2-NO2 -4-CF 3-phenyl           H        693.6    1.88   Gum
    2.4      4-Cl            3-Cl-4-F-phenyl              H        632.5    2.57   Solid
    2.5      4-Cl            2-CF 3-4-F-phenyl            H        666.5    2.59   Solid
    2.6      4-Cl              4-CF 3-phenyl              H        648.5    2.58   Solid
    2.7      4-Cl          3,4-dimethoxyphenyl            H        640.6    2.40   Solid
    2.8      4-Cl              4-nitrophenyl              H        625.5    2.46   Solid
    2.9      4-Cl             4-chlorophenyl              H        614.7    2.59   Solid
   2.10      4-Cl            3,5-di-Cl-phenyl             H        648.5    2.78   Solid
   2.11      4-Cl            4-methoxyphenyl              H        610.6    2.46   Solid
   2.12      4-Cl            2-Chloro-phenyl              H        614.5    2.57   Solid
   2.13      4-Cl             3-Chlorophenyl              H        614.7    2.60   Solid
   2.14      4-Cl                3-Pyridyl                H        581.6    2.31   Solid
   2.15      4-Cl            3-methoxyphenyl              H        610.6    2.49   Solid
   2.16      4-Cl           3,4-dichlorophenyl            H        648.5    2.71   Solid
   2.17      4-Cl           2,6-dichlorophenyl            H        648.6    2.66   Solid
   2.18      4-Cl            2-methoxyphenyl              H        610.6    2.43   Solid
   2.19      4-Cl           2,4-dichlorophenyl            H        648.6    2.74   Solid
   2.20      4-Cl         2-NO 2-4-OCH 3-phenyl           H        655.5    2.42  Powder
   2.21      4-Cl          2,4-dimethoxyphenyl            H        640.6    2.41   Solid

                                       33
2.22    4-Cl               ethyl                  H       532.5 2.37  Solid
2.23    4-Cl             -CH 2 CF3                H       586.4 2.39 Powder
2.24    4-Cl         -CH 2 CH 2CF3                H       598.5 2.47  Solid
2.25    4-Cl             n-propyl                 H       546.6 2.44  Solid
2.26    4-Cl              n-butyl                 H       560.7 2.52  Solid
2.27    4-Cl            Iso-butyl                 H       560.7 2.51 Powder
2.28    4-Cl      -CH 2CH 2 Si(CH 3)3             H       604.7 2.68 Powder
2.29    4-Cl          Cyclopropyl                 H       544.6 2.36 Powder
2.30    4-Cl           Cyclohexyl                 H       586.6 2.65 Powder
2.31    4-Cl   1-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-             H       721.8 2.54 Powder
                     piperazin-4-yl
2.32    4-Cl            Isopropyl                 H       546.6 2.23  Solid
2.33    4-Cl      Cyclohexylmethyl                H       600.6 2.74  Solid
2.34    4-Cl       (1R)-(-)-Campher               H       654.7 2.57  Solid
2.35    4-Cl       -CH 2 C(O)OC 2 Hs              H       590.6 2.36  Solid
2.36    4-Cl        -CH 2C(O)OCH 3                H       576.6 2.29  Foam
2.37    4-Cl         -CH 2 C(O)OH                 H       562.5 2.16  Solid
2.38    4-Cl      (1S)-(+)-Campher                H       654.8 2.55  Solid
2.39    4-Cl  Tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl            H       588.6 2.33  Solid
2.40    4-Cl            -N(CH 3)2                 H       547.6 2.40 Powder
2.41    4-Cl   1-Methylpiperazin-4-yl             H       602.8 1.72 Powder
        4-Cl                                      H
2.42                  -N        S                         637.6 2.24 Powder
2.43    4-Cl             -CH 2 -Cl          -S0 2 CH 2 Cl 664.4 2,44  Solid
        4-Cl
2.44            -C         N       N-CH3          H       644.6 1.52 Powder
        4-Cl
     2.5     CH,         ~                F       H       775.6 2.63 Powder

                                                   34
              4-Cl             0              0
    2.46                 -CH       N   -C        N        O   H        757.8     1.59   Powder
              4-Cl            0               0      H
    2.47                -CH       N     N-CH2   0OCH       3  H        744.7    2.41    Powder
                                                    CH
                                                       3
              4-Cl               0
    2.48      4C          -CH       N    N             CI     H        740.6    2.68    Powder
                                                Example 3
       2-(methylsulfonamido)-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
                                  yl)oxy)benzamide (Ex 3.2 in Table 3)
 5
   Step A: methyl 2-nitro-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridin-3-yl)oxy)benzoate.
   Methyl 5-chloro-2-nitrobenzoate was treated in a similar manner as step A of synthesis of
   example 3 (yield: 28%). LCMS (method B): 342.86 (M+H)* at 1.63 min.
10 Step B: 2-nitro-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridin-3-yl)oxy)benzoic acid.
   Methyl 2-nitro-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridin-3-yl)oxy)benzoate (277 mg) was treated
   overnight at rt with NaOH IN (4.13 mL) in THF/MeOH (8 mL, 2/1) (yield: 98%). LCMS
   (method B): 328.84 (M+H)* at 1.33 min.
15 Step C: 2-nitro -N- (3,4,5-trichlorophenyl) -5- ((2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3-yl)oxy)
   benzamide
   2-nitro-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridin-3-yl) oxy) benzoic acid was treated in a similar
   manner as step A of synthesis of example 1 (yield: 45%). LCMS (method B): 505.7
   (M+H)* at 2.05 min.
20
   Step D: 2-amino -N- (3,4,5-trichlorophenyl) -5- ((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridine -3- yl)oxy)
   benzamide 2-nitro-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridin-3-yl) oxy)
   benzamide was treated in a similar manner as step C Example 1 (yield: 100%). LCMS
   (method B): 475.52 (M+H)* at 2.21 min.
25

                                                35
   Step E: 2-(methylsulfonamido)-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   3-yl)oxy) benzamide 2-amino-N-(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-5-((2-(trifluoromethyl) pyridine
   3- yl) oxy) benzamide was treated in a similar manner as step D of synthesis of example 1
   (yield: 20%). LCMS (method C): 553.7 (M+H)* at 2.07 min.
 5         The substances named in the following Table 3 are prepared analogously to the
   above-described methods. The compounds are of formula
                                                 CI
                                                          CI
                                                   ON
                  A                       N               CI
                                          H
                                        NH-SO--CH3
   wherein the meaning of A' given in Table 3. The following physical data are obtained
10 according to the above-described HPLC/MS characterization process.
   Table 3:
             Ex.                                m/z: [M+H]    Rt [min]     Rt [min]
             No.                  A'                         (Method)   (Method)
                          H30     ..- N
              3.1                                   556.7    2.09 (B)        Solid
                                  N
              3.2                                   553.7    2.07 (B)        Solid
                            F 3C
              3.3                     N             551.7    3.95 (A)       Foam
              3.4      H 3c                         558.8    2.95 (C)        Solid
                                S:0
                                             Example 4
15        5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido)-N-(4-(trifluoromethyl)oxazol-2
                                            yl)benzamide

                                              36
                                       (Ex 4.16 in Table 4)
   Step A: methyl 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-nitrobenzoate
   methyl 5-chloro-2-nitrobenzoate was treated in a similar manner as step A of synthesis of
 5 example 3 (yield: 90%). LCMS (method B): 305.0 (M+H)* at 1.67 min.
   Step B: methyl 2-amino-5-(4-chlorophenoxy) benzoate
   methyl 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-nitrobenzoate was treated in a similar manner as step C
   Example 1 (yield: 100%). LCMS (method B): 277.82 (M+H)* at 1.88 min.
10
   Step C: methyl 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoate
   methyl 2-amino-5-(4-chlorophenoxy)benzoate was treated in a similar manner as step D
   of synthesis of example 1 (yield: 95%). LCMS (method B): 353.78 (M-H)- at 1.84 min.
15 Step D: 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoic acid
   methyl 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido)benzoate was saponified in a similar
   manner as step B of synthesis of example 4 (yield: 96%). LCMS (method B): 339.62 (M
   H)- at 1.61 min.
20 Step E: 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido)-N-(4-(trifluoromethyl)   oxazol-2
   yl)benzamide
   5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(methylsulfonamido) benzoic acid was treated in a similar manner
   as step A of synthesis of example 1 (yield: 3%). LCMS (method B): 475.64 (M+H)* at
   1.70 min.
25         The substances named in the following Table 4 are prepared analogously to the
   above-described methods. The compounds are of formula
                                               0
                                0                  N   Y
                                     I                 RU
                CINH-SO2-CH

                                               37
wherein the meaning of Y and R0 is given in Table 4. The following physical data are
obtained according to the above-described HPLC/MS characterization process (Method
B).
Table 4:
      Ex.                                           m/z:        Rt [min]     Rt [min]
      No.                   Y                    R0 [M+H]      (Method)    (Method B)
      4.1             S                 C        H     503.7      1.94       Powder
                      S               OCH,
                                 N               H
      4.2                N                             447.7      1.99        Solid
                         S
                          N         C1           H
      4.3            -- </                             482.6      1.94        Solid
                          S         CN
                      N        C(O)OC2 H,
      4.4            / D                         H     495.6      1.76        Solid
                      S
                              N                  H
      4.5                   /                          423.6      1.69        Solid
                              S
                                  N              H
      4.6                 S                            468.6      1.79       Powder
                          S        NO 2
                          N N                    H
      4.7               <                              492.7      1.83        Solid
                          S        CF 3
                      NC                         H
      4.8                                              487.6      1.99        Solid
                      N        CH 3              H
      4.9        -- </                                 509.7      1.95        Solid
                      S        C(O)OC 2H,
                  N                              H
                 '</I           _a
     4.10                s 02              NO2         608.6      1.85        Solid
                 H3C           C(O)OC 2H,        H
     4.11            /                                 508.6      2.32        Solid
                      S

                                    38
           N         CF3              H
4.12 -- </                                   563.6. 2.00  Solid
           S         C(O)OC2 H
4.13           S        IC            H      540.5  2.05  Solid
                                      H      571.7  2.20  Solid
4.14       N
         /      I
                     C(O)OC2 H5
                         CH,
4.15                     CH                  437.7  1.67  Solid
                N        CF3
4.16          /      I                H      475.6  1.70   Oil
                0
                        OCH 3
4.17                N                 H      417.8  1.45   Oil
4.18                    N             H      447.7  2.20   Oil
                   -~N
4.19                     CH,          H      465.7  1.47   Oil
4.20          --Y       N             H      451.7  1.71   Oil
                  H3C
                       C
4.21     N~                           H      485.8  1.90   Oil
                 -~N
4.22                                  H      431.7  1.25 Powder
4.23                          F       H      496.9  2.06  Foam
                      N
4.24                   >     CF 3     H      541.7  2.07  Solid
          4N.                CH
                              3
4.25   1                        OH3   H543.8        2.09  Solid
                   Sl     OH3         H

                              39
                        B OH
4.26                      OH    H  472.7 1.62  Solid
4.27                    HH         455.8 1.71  Solid
4.28                            H  467.8 1.73  Solid
4.29                             H 475.8 1.73  Solid
                    N    N
              N
                      H
4.29                   _N       H  475.8 1.51  Solid
                 N,
                      H
              H H
              N-N
             O0                 H
4.30       =e500.8                       1.77  Solid
          CI              CF3
4.31              CI            H  567.6 2.08  Solid
           H
                  CI
                         NO,
4.32   -N                       H  510.7 1.78  Solid
          H-,;
                  CI
          CI               CI
4.33                            H  533.6 2.09   Oil
           H
                   CI
4.34CH                          H  479.7 1.89 Powder
       -N                CI
           H
4.35                            H  461.8 1.78   Oil
                     OCH
                          3
4.36            N               H  465.7 1.82   Oil
                 Hl

                                                  40
                                   cI
4.37                                                 H 499.7 1.89   Oil
              -N                   C1
4.38                                                 H 456.7 1.65   Oil
              -N~f
                   H
                                   Br
     4.39
439              -                                   H 509.7 1.75   Oil
                   H
4.40                               N-CH3               423.7 0.61
                                                                  Powder
4.41                N     \     /      OCHa            515.7 1.67  Foam
                                   CF3
4.42                    N          N                   595.7 1.93
                                                N                 Powder
                            OCH3 O         OCH 3
                               N
4.43                           H                       636.8 1.62
                                                                   Solid
                                                 NH
                                                   2
                                           C1
                    0
4.44      -- H2              CH2          H          H 435.7 1.48  Solid
                        H
                      0
4.45       -- H2C        NCH2         CF3            H 479.7 1.56
                     2   H                                         Solid
                     0
4.46      -- H2C        N    C2         N            H 436.7 1.46
               2
                        H
                                                                   Solid
4.47                                                 H 480.7 1.74   Oil
                  o              c                                 Solid
4.48                                ci               H 512.7 1.85
4.49                                                 H 456.8 1.95  Resin

                                              41
                          O           CI
         4.50                        N          H       513.7         1.76         Solid
                                      CI
                           H3C    CH3           H
         4.51                                           477.0         3.09         Foam
                                 CH
                                   3
                                                H
         4.52                                   H       434.8         2.02          Oil
                                -N
         4.53          --             CH       OH       481.7         3.27         Solid
                          H            H3
                               CI
   Biological Examples:
 5 Gastro-intestinal Larval Development Assay
            Freshly harvested and cleaned nematode eggs are used to seed a suitably
   formatted well plate containing the test substances to be evaluated for antiparasitic
   activity and media allowing the full development of eggs through to 3rd instar larvae. The
   plates are incubated for 6 days at 25 C and 60% relative humidity. Egg-hatching and
10 ensuing larval development are recorded to identify a possible nematodicidal activity.
   Efficacy is expressed in percent reduced egg hatch, reduced development of L3, or
   paralysis & death of larvae at any stage. Compounds Nos. 1.4, 1.10-1.12, 1.14, 1.16-1.21,
   1.23, 1.25-1.26, 1.29-1.33, 2.1, 2.22, 2.28, 2.42-2.43, 3.1-3.2, 4.1, 4.3-4.8, 4.19-4.24,
   4.28, 4.32, 4.34, 4.36-4.37, 4.39, 4.42-4.43 and 4.51 reached > 60% efficacy at lOppm,
15 and are therefore considered active.
   Dirofilaria immitis microfilaria assay
            Freshly harvested and cleaned Dirofilariaimmitis microfilariae are prepared from
   blood from donor animals dogs. The microfilariae are then distributed in formatted
20 microplates containing the test substances to be evaluated for antiparasitic activity. The
   plates are incubated for 48 hours at 25'C and 60% relative humidity (RH). Motility of

                                               42
   microfilariae is then recorded to determine efficacy. Efficacy is expressed in percent
   reduced motility as compared to the control and standards. Compounds Nos. 1.2-1.4 and
   1.6 to 1.33, 2.1-2.20, 2.22-2.44, 2.46, 3.1-3.4, 4.1-4.10, 4.12-4.16, 4.17-4.18, 4.21-4.29,
   4.31-4.39, 4.42 and 4.46-4.52 showed an efficacy above 50% at 10 ppm, and are therefore
 5 considered active.
   Acanthocheilonema viteae in Gerbil
           Gerbils are artificially infected with 80 L3 larvae of A. viteae by subcutaneous
   injection. Treatment by gavage with the formulated test compounds occurs consecutively
10 day 5 to day 9 after infection. Eighty-four days after infection, gerbils are bled for
   counting circulating microfilariae, using a Fuchs-Rosenthal counting chamber and
   microscope. Only test groups with an average of circulating microfilariae at least 50%
   lower than in the placebo treated group are fully dissected to recover adult worms.
   Efficacy is expressed as a % reduction in worm numbers in comparison with the placebo
15 treated group, using the Abbot's formula. Compound No. 1.6-1.8, 1.17, 1.25, 1.30, 1.32,
   2.24, 4.13, 4.24 showed an efficacy above 80% at 10 mg/kg.
   Adult liver fluke-in vitro assay
           Freshly harvested adult Fasciolahepatica from cattle or sheep livers were
20 distributed in 12-well plates (1 fluke per well) with 4 mL of RPMI complete medium and
   kept in an incubator at 37 0 C for approximately 12 hours. After renewal of the medium,
   the viability of the flukes is determined by video-registration of the movement of the
   individual flukes (pre-value). Test compounds are added at a concentration of 100 pg/mL
   and the movements of the flukes are measured after 6 and 24 hours. Efficacy is expressed
25 as percent reduced movement based on the pre-value and the untreated control. In this test
   the following examples showed more than >90% efficacy after 6 h and >95% after 24 h
   are considered as positive: 2.2, 4.13.

                                                     43
   Claims:
    1.        A compound of formula
                                                0
                          A                         NR0-Y
                                                NR2- S(O 2) -T
 5
              or a salt or an enantiomer thereof, wherein
              n is 0 or 1;
              A is CI-C 6 -alkyl; C1-C 6 -haloalkyl; C 3-C6-cycloalkyl; C3-C6-halocycloalkyl; 5- or
    6-membered heterocycloalkyl having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected
10  from the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted
    by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy; or is a phenyl radical which is unsubstituted or
    substituted by halogen, CI-C 6 -alkyl, C1-C 6-haloalkyl, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, C3-C6
    halocycloalkyl, CI-C 6 -alkoxy, C1-C 6 -haloalkoxy, C 1 -C 6 -alkylthio, C1-C 6-haloalkylthio,
    CI-C 6 -alkyl-sulfinyl, C1-C 6 -haloalkylsulfmyl, C1-C 6 -alkylsulfonyl, C1 -C6
15  haloalkylsulfonyl, SF 5, amino, N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C 6-alkylamino, tri-C1-C 4 -alkylsilyl,
    C 1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, N-mono- or N,N-di-C1 -C 6-alkylaminocarbonyl,
    aminosulfonyl, N-mono- or N,N-di-C1 -C 6-alkylaminosulfonyl, C1 -C6
    alkoxycarbonylamino, N-C1 -C 4-alkyl-N-C1-C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino, cyano, nitro, or
    unsubstituted or halogen-, C1 -C 4-alkyl-, CI-C 4 -haloalkyl-, C1 -C4-alkoxy-, C 1 -C 4
20  haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro-substituted C 3-C 6-heterocyclyl; or is cinnamyl,
    which is unsubstituted or substituted in the phenyl moiety by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1
    C 4-alkoxy; or is a heteroaromatic radical, which is further unsubstituted or substituted by
    halogen, cyano, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4-haloalkyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy, C1-C 4 -haloalkoxy, C 2-C 4
    alkanoyl, 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl-C1-C 2-alkyl or unsubstituted or halogen-,
25  CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4 -alkoxy-substituted phenyl; or is a hetero-bicyclic ring radical
    comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from which 1 to 5 members are same or
    different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from
    which 0 to 2 members are a group -C(O)-, which bicyclic ring radical is further
    unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl, C 1 -C4 -alkyl or C1-C 4-haloalkyl;

                                                   44
            R is H or -S(O2)-T;
            T is CI-C 6 -alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, trimethylsilyl,
   C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, carboxyl or C 1 -C 4-alkoxycarbonyl; C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl; C6 -C1 2
   bicarbocyclyl; phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, C1
 5 C 4-alkyl, CI-C 4-haloalkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy; a 5- or 6 membered heteroaromatic radical,
   which is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4 -alkyl, C 1 -C4
   haloalkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy; 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl having from 1 to 3 same
   or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N, 0, S and S(02), which is
   further unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl or
                                             0
                                      -CH    2 N         N-R
10 benzyloxycarbonyl ; a group                                 ; amino; or N-mono- or NN-di- C1
   C 4-alkylamino;
            R 3 is Ci-C 4-alkyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4 -haloalkyl
   substituted phenyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4-haloalkyl-substituted
   pyridyl, C1-C4-alkoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yl-carbonylmethyl;
15          R0 is H or hydroxy; and
            Y is
            (i) phenyl or a phenylamino, which is substituted by one or more same or different
   radicals selected from the group consisting of halogen; CI-C 6 -alkyl; C1-C 6 -haloalkyl; C 3
   C 6-cycloalkyl; C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; hydroxyl; C1 -C 6-alkoxy; C1 -C 6-haloalkoxy; C1 -C6
20 alkylthio; C1 -C6-haloalkylthio; C1-C 6 -alkyl-sulfinyl; C1 -C6 -haloalkylsulfinyl; C1 -C6
   alkylsulfonyl; C 1 -C6 -haloalkylsulfonyl; SF 5; amino; N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C6
   alkylamino; tri-C 1 -C4-alkylsilyl; C 1 -C6 -alkoxycarbonyl; aminocarbonyl; N-mono- or
   N,N-di-C1-C 6-alkylaminocarbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N-mono- or N,N-di-C 1 -C6
   alkylaminosulfonyl; N-C1 -C 6-alkylsulfonylamino; C 1 -C 6 -alkoxycarbonylamino; N-C1 -C 4
25 alkyl-N-C1-C 6 -alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; and unsubstituted or halogen-, C 1 -C 4
   alkyl-, C 1 -C 4-haloalkyl-, C 1 -C4 -alkoxy-, C 1 -C 4-haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro
   substituted C 3-C 6-heterocyclyl; or is
            (ii) 5- or 6 membered heteroaryl or heteroarylamino, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C 1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1 -

                                                  45
   C 4-alkoxy, C1-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, C 2-C 4 -alkanoyl, or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is
   each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, methyl or methoxy; or is
            (iii) benzoyl or 5- or 6 membered heteroarylcarbonyl, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1
 5 C4-alkoxy, Cl-C4-alkoxycarbonyl, C 2-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl; or is
            (iv) a C 6-C12-bicarbocyclic radical; or is a
            (v) a hetero-bicyclic ring radical comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from
   which 1 to 5, preferably 1 or 2, members are same or different heteroatoms selected from
   the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from which 0 to 2 members are a group
10 C(O)-, which bicyclic ring radical is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen,
   cyano, hydroxyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1-C 4-haloalkyl; or is
            (vi) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-R 4, wherein R4 is C1-C 4-haloalkyl, C 2 -C 3-alkynyl or
   cyano-C1-C 4-alkyl; or
           R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached, form a piperidinyl
15 or piperazinyl radical which is substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy, unsubstituted or
   halogen-, C1 -C 4-alkyl-, C 1 -C 4-haloalkyl-, amino- and/or C1 -C 4-alkoxy-substituted phenyl
   or benzoylamino, or unsubstituted or CI-C 4-alkyl-, C1-C 4-haloalkyl-, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl- or
   halogen-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl; subject to the provisos that
            (i) at least one of A and Y must not be a phenyl radical if T is CH 3 ; and
20          (ii) T is CI-C 6 -alkyl which is unsubstituted or substituted as mentioned above if A
   is C1 -C6-alkyl or C1-C 6-haloalkyl.
   2.      A compound according to claim 1 of formula
                                          0
                   A'-                        N
                                              H
                                          NH-SO2CH3
                                                                                  (Ia),
25 wherein Y' is phenyl which is substituted by one or more same or different radicals
   selected from the group consisting of halogen; CI-C 6 -alkyl; C1-C 6 -haloalkyl; C 3-C6
   cycloalkyl; C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; hydroxyl; CI-C 6 -alkoxy; C1 -C 6-haloalkoxy; C1 -C6
   alkylthio; C1 -C6-haloalkylthio; C1-C 6-alkyl-sulfinyl; C1 -C6-haloalkylsulfinyl; C1 -C6
   alkylsulfonyl; C 1 -C6 -haloalkylsulfonyl; SF 5; amino; N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C6 -

                                                  46
   alkylamino; tri-C 1 -C4-alkylsilyl; C 1 -C6 -alkoxycarbonyl; aminocarbonyl; N-mono- or
   N,N-di-C1-C 6-alkylaminocarbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C6
   alkylaminosulfonyl; N-C1 -C 6-alkylsulfonylamino; C 1 -C 6 -alkoxycarbonylamino; N-C1 -C 4
   alkyl-N-C1-C 6 -alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; and unsubstituted or halogen-, C 1 -C 4
 5 alkyl-, C1-C 4-haloalkyl-, CI-C 4 -alkoxy-, C1-C 4-haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro
   substituted C 3-C 6-heterocyclyl; and
            A' is C1 -C6-alkyl; C1 -C6-haloalkyl; C 3 -C6-cycloalkyl; C 3 -C6-halocycloalkyl; 5- or
   6-membered heterocycloalkyl having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected
   from the group consisting of B, N, 0 and S, which is further unsubstituted or substituted
10 by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy; a heteroaromatic radical, which is further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, CI-C 4 -alkyl, C1-C 4-haloalkyl, C 1 -C 4
   alkoxy, C1-C 4-haloalkoxy, C1-C 4-alkanoyl, 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl-C1-C         2
   alkyl or unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4 -alkoxy-substituted phenyl; or is
   a hetero-bicyclic ring radical comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from which 1 to
15 5, preferably 1 or 2, members are same or different heteroatoms selected from the group
   consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from which 0 to 2 members are a group -C(O)-, which
   bicyclic ring radical is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl,
   CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1-C 4 -haloalkyl.
20 3.        A compound according to claim 2, wherein Y' is phenyl which is substituted by 2
   or 3 same or different radicals selected from halogen or CF 3; and A' is CI-C 4-alkyl; CF 3;
   pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl or dioxaborolanyl, which is each unsubstituted or
   substituted by methyl; pyrryl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, thienyl, thiazinyl, thiazolyl, pyridyl or
   pyrimidinyl , which is each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, C 1 -C 2-alkyl,
25 CI-C 2-alkoxy, C 1-C 2 -haloalkyl, acetyl, propionyl, phenyl or morpholin-4-yl-methyl; or
   indolyl, benzopyrazolyl or benzothiazolyl, which is each unsubstituted or substituted by
   methyl;and n is 1.
   4.       A compound according to claim 1 of formula
30

                                                   47
                                                     0
                                 A
                                                        2H
                                                     NR -SO2-T
                                                                                             (Ib),
   wherein A is phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 6 -alkyl, C1
   C 6-haloalkyl, C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl, C 1 -C6 -alkoxy, C1 -C 6-haloalkoxy,
   C1 -C6-alkylthio, C1 -C6-haloalkylthio, C1 -C6-alkyl-sulfinyl, C1 -C6-haloalkylsulfinyl, C1
 5 C 6-alkylsulfonyl, C1-C 6-haloalkylsulfonyl, SF 5, amino, N-mono- or NN-di-C 1 -C6
   alkylamino, tri-C1-C 4-alkylsilyl, C1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, N-mono- or NN
   di-C 1 -C 6 -alkylaminocarbonyl, aminosulfonyl, N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C 6
   alkylaminosulfonyl, C 1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino, N-C1 -C4 -alkyl-N-CI-C 6
   alkoxycarbonylamino, cyano, nitro, or unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl-, C 1 -C 4
10 haloalkyl-, CI-C 4-alkoxy-, C1-C 4 -haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro-substituted C3 -C6
   heterocyclyl;
             Y is phenyl which is substituted by one or more same or different radicals selected
   from the group consisting of halogen; C1 -C 6-alkyl; C1-C 6 -haloalkyl; C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl;
   C 3-C 6-halocycloalkyl; hydroxyl; C 1 -C 6-alkoxy; C 1 -C 6-haloalkoxy; C1-C 6-alkylthio; C1
15 C 6-haloalkylthio; C1-C 6 -alkyl-sulfinyl; C1-C 6-haloalkylsulfinyl; C1-C 6 -alkylsulfonyl; C1
   C 6-haloalkylsulfonyl; SF 5; amino; N-mono- or N,N-di-C1 -C 6-alkylamino; tri-C 1 -C 4
   alkylsilyl; C1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonyl; aminocarbonyl; N-mono- or NN-di-C1 -C6
   alkylaminocarbonyl; aminosulfonyl; N-mono- or N,N-di-C1-C 6-alkylaminosulfonyl; N
   C 1 -C 6-alkylsulfonylamino; C 1 -C 6-alkoxycarbonylamino; N-C1 -C 4-alkyl-N-CI-C 6
20 alkoxycarbonylamino; cyano; nitro; and unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl-, C 1 -C 4
   haloalkyl-, C 1 -C 4-alkoxy-, C 1 -C4 -haloalkoxy-, amino-, cyano- or nitro-substituted C3 -C6
   heterocyclyl;
             T is C 2-C 6 -alkyl, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, trimethylsilyl,
   C 3-C 6-cycloalkyl, carboxy or C 1 -C 4-alkoxycarbonyl; C 3-C 6 -cycloalkyl; C6 -C12
25 bicarbocyclyl; phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, C1
   C 4-alkyl, CI-C 4-haloalkyl or CI-C 4-alkoxy; a 5- or 6 membered heteroaromatic radical,
   which is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4-alkyl or CI-C 4 -alkoxy;
   amino; N-mono- or NN-di- CI-C 4-alkylamino; 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl
   having from 1 to 3 same or different heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N,

                                                  48
   0, S and S(02), which is further unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl; or a group
           0
                            3
       -C2 N           N-R
                              ; and
            R 3 is Ci-C 4-alkyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4 -haloalkyl
   substituted phenyl, unsubstituted or halogen-, CI-C 4-alkyl- or C1-C 4-haloalkyl-substituted
 5 pyridyl, C1-C 4-alkoxycarbonylmethyl or morpholin-4-yl-carbonylmethyl.
   5.       A compound according to claim 4, wherein A is phenyl which is unsubstituted or
   mono-substituted by chlorine, fluorine or CF 3, Y is phenyl which is substituted by 2 or 3
   same or different radicals selected from halogen or CF 3, and T is C 2-C 4 -alkyl, which is
10 unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyclopropyl, cyclohexyl, trimethylsilyl, carboxy
   or C1-C2-alkoxycarbony; cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl; the radical of (+)- or (-)-camphor;
   phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by fluorine, chlorine, methyl, methoxy, CF 3
   or nitro; or pyridyl, thienyl or pyrimidinyl; piperidinyl, piperazinyl, tetrahydropyranyl,
   morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl or thiomorpholin-4-yl- 1,1-dioxide, which is each
15 unsubstituted or substituted by methyl or benzyloxycarbonyl.
   6.       A compound according to claim 1 of formula
                                             0
                              0                       Y
                        A                        N   R
                                             N H-SO2-CH3
                                                                                            (Ic),
   wherein A is phenyl which is unsubstituted or substituted as defined in claim 1;
20          R0 is H or hydroxyl; and
            Y" is
            (i) 5- or 6 membered heteroaryl or heteroarylamino, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1
   C 4-alkoxy, CI-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, CI-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl which is
25 each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro methyl or methoxy; or is

                                                  49
           (ii) benzoyl or 5- or 6 membered heteroarylcarbonyl, which is each further
   unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro, CI-C 4-alkyl, C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C1
   C 4-alkoxy, CI-C 4-alkoxycarbonyl, CI-C 4 -alkanoyl or phenyl; or is
           (iii) a C 6-C 12-bicarbocyclic radical; or is a
 5         (iv) a hetero-bicyclic ring radical comprising a total of 8 to 10 ring members, from
   which 1 to 5, preferably 1 or 2, are same or different heteroatoms selected from the group
   consisting of B, N, 0 and S, and from which 0 to 2 are a group -C(O)-, which bicyclic
   ring radical is further unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, hydroxyl, C 1 -C 4
   alkoxy, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1-C 4-haloalkyl; or is
10         (v) a radical -H 2C-C(O)-NH-R 4 , wherein R4 is C1-C 4 -haloalkyl, C 2-C 3 -alkynyl or
   cyano-C1-C 4-alkyl; or
           R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached, form a piperidinyl
   or piperazinyl radical which is substituted by CI-C 4-alkyl, CI-C 4-alkoxy unsubstituted or
   halogen-, C1 -C 4-alkyl-, halo- C 1 -C 4-alkyl-, amino- and/or C 1 -C 4-alkoxy-substituted
15 phenyl or benzoylamino, or unsubstituted or CI-C 4-alkyl-, C1-C 4-haloalkyl-, C3-C6
   cycloalkyl- or halogen-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
   7.      A compound according to claim 6, wherein
           A is phenyl which unsubstituted or mono-substituted by chlorine, fluorine or CF3 ;
20         R0 is H, and
           Y" is
           (i) 2-, 3- or 4-pyridyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl
   or C1-C2-alkoxy; 2-thienyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2-alkyl, C 1 -C 2
   alkoxycarbonyl; 2-thiazolyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano,
25 nitro, CI-C 2-alkyl, CI-C 2-haloalkyl, CI-C 2-alkoxycarbonyl, or phenyl or phenylsulfonyl
   which is in turn each unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, cyano, nitro or methyl; 5
   isothiazoyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or methyl; 2-oxazolyl, which
   is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2 -alkyl or C1-C 2-haloalkyl; or 1,3,4-thiadiazol-5-yl,
   which is unsubstituted or substituted by CI-C 2-alkyl or C1-C 2 -haloalkyl; 2-, 3- or 4
30 pyridylamino, which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, CI-C 4 -alkyl or C1 -C2
   alkoxy; or

                                                 50
            (ii) benzoyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen, or 2-, 3- or 4
   pyridylcarbonyl which is unsubstituted or substituted by halogen or C 1-C4-alkyl; or
                                                H3C   CH,
            (iii) a radical         , a radical      CH.  or indanyl; or
            (iv) benzothiazolyl, indolyl, chinolinyl, methylenedioxophenyl, benzooxaboronyl,
 5 triazolopyrimidinonyl or phthalhydrazidyl, which is each be unsubstituted or substituted
   by halogen, C 1-C4 -alkyl, C1 -C2-haloalkyl or hydroxy; or
            (v) a radical -H 2 C-C(O)-NH-CH 2 -C-CH, -H 2C-C(O)-NH-CH 2-CN or -H 2C
   C(O)-NH-CH2-CF 3 ;
            or R0 and Y together with the N-atom to which they are attached, form a
10 piperidinyl or piperazinyl radical, which is substituted by methyl; methoxy; halogen-,
   amino-, methoxy- or trifluoromethyl-substituted phenyl or benzoylamino; or halogen-,
   trifluoromethyl- and/or cyclopropyl-substituted pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
   8.       Composition for the control of parasites, which contains as active ingredient at
15 least one compound of formula (I), (Ia), (Ib) or (Ic) according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
   in addition to carriers and/or dispersants.
   9.       A compound of formula (I), (Ia), (Ib) or (Ic) according to any one of claims 1 to 7
   for use in the control of endoparasites in or on warm-blooded animals.
20
   10.      Method of controlling endoparasites, on warm-blooded animals, which comprises
   administering to the warm-blooded animals a veterinary effective amount of at least one
   compound of formula (I), (La), (Ib) or (Ic) according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
25 11.      Use of a compound of formula (I, (Ia), (Ib) or (Ic) according to any one of claims
   1 to 7 in the preparation of a veterinary or pharmaceutical composition against
   endoparasites in or on warm-blooded animals.
                                 Elanco Tiergesundheit AG
                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON

