                                   17
                                Abstract
A  system  (100)  for a controlled stressing of a reconstructed
or re-natured ligament of a human or animal body comprises         an
anchoring element     (10) for implantation in a first bone     (50),
at least one connecting element       (120) and a holding element
 (30), which fixes the at least one connecting element       (20)  in
a second bone. According to-the invention, an elastomer
element   (125) is arranged in the anchoring element     and/or in
the connecting element     (120)  and provides a defined elastic
action through the cooperation of elastomer element.(125)         with
the  connecting element    (120).
(Fig.  1 and Fig.   3A)

           1/6
                30100
   41
                  40
20             /6
                   50
     Fig,.

                      3/6
                               125
                                         >   120
                           123
                                                 122
124
               121
                   Fig. 3A
        121  126                          120'
                          %X     ,...123
    124
         121 126
                   Fig. 3B

                                      1
               An implantable system with elastic components
      The invention relates to an implantable system with elastic
   5  components for the controlled stressing of a reconstructed or
      re-natured ligament of a human or animal body.
      The human knee joint is stabilised by the front cruciate
      ligament and the rear cruciate ligament in the interior of the
 10   knee joint. In the case of a twisting trauma of the knee
     joint,  these two ligaments, especially the front cruciate
     ligament are overloaded, and a rupture respectively a
     detachment of the ligament occurs as a result.   If conservative
     therapy approaches or attempts to stitch the front cruciate
 15  ligament do not lead to a stabilisation of the injured knee
     joint,  the front cruciate ligament is often removed and the
     knee-joint stability is restored by a transplant made of
     tendon material or synthetic ligament.   In this context, the
     damaged natural ligament is completely removed from the knee
20   joint. However,  the artificial replacement ligament can take
     over its function only inadequately. In particular,
     sensitivity is completely lost,  which leads to an overloading
     and therefore to an increased wear on the artificial
     prosthetic ligament.
25
     This fact and the self-healing tendency of every ligament of
     the human body is exploited by a system described in WO
     2010/124760 Al for the controlled stressing of a reconstructed
     or re-natured ligament.  In this context, during the healing
30   phase, a connecting element is attached by an anchoring
     respectively holding element to the two bones to be connected,
     which ensures a relief of the natural ligament and therefore
     allows the ligament to grow together naturally. The anchoring
     element provides a cushioning device in order to guarantee a

                                  2
   uniform tensile stress within the system and to allow the
   flexing of the treated knee. After the healing of the natural
   ligament, the implantable system has fulfilled its task and is
   no longer required. WO 2010/124760 Al discloses that one or
 5 more components of the system comprise a bio-absorbable
   material and dissolve of their own accord.
   In particular, components of such an implantable system which
   comprise metallic material are described by patients as
10 disturbing and painful and must therefore be removed
   operatively or arthroscopically after the healing of the
   ligament. Such an intervention is associated with risks and
   discomfort for the patient and generates additional costs.
15 The object of the present invention is therefore to construct
   as many components as possible of the implantable system from
   a material which is well tolerated by the human body and
   hardly leads to irritations or pain when retained within the
   patient. In this context, the implantable system should
20 provide an elasticity similar to the elasticity characteristic
   of the natural ligament.
   The object is achieved by the system according to the
   invention as specified in claim 1. In the dependent claims,
25 advantageous further developments of the system according to
   the invention are specified.
   The system according to the invention for a controlled
   stressing of a reconstructed or re-natured ligament of a human
30 or animal body comprises an anchoring element for implantation
   in a first bone, at least one connecting element and a holding
   element which fixes the at least one connecting element in a
   second bone. According to the invention, an elastomer  element
   is arranged in the anchoring element and/or in the connecting

                                   3
   element and provides a defined elastic action through the
   cooperation of elastomer element with the anchoring element
   respectively the connecting element.
 5 Through the selection and composition of the materials of the
   elastomer element, elastic moduli can be realised over a wide
   range.  Through the cooperation of the elastomer element with
   the anchoring element and the connecting element, an
   elasticity characteristic of the system similar to that of a
10 natural ligament can be achieved with favourable material and
   structural combinations.  Furthermore, many elastomers are bio
   compatible, so that they have no damaging effect on human or
   animal tissue. As a result of their deformability, they have a
   considerably less irritating effect and can therefore also
15 remain in the body after the healing of the ligament.
   The elastomer element is advantageously made of polyethylene
   and/or polyester and/or polyurethane and/or silicon. In the
   case of a use in the human body, the named materials have bio
20 compatible properties and also provide a favourable elastic
   behaviour.
   With a cooperation of the elastomer element with a connecting
   element,  it is advantageous if the elastomer element provides
25 a smaller elastic modulus than the connecting element.
   Accordingly, in the case of a low tensile stress on the
   connecting element, the elastic modulus of the elastomer
   predominates, and in the case of a strong tensile stress, the
   significantly larger elastic modulus of the material of the
30 connecting element predominates. Accordingly, the strain
   characteristic of the connecting element in interaction with
   the elastomer element corresponds to the strain characteristic
   of a natural ligament.

                                   4
   It is particularly advantageous   if the connecting element is
   plaited and/or knitted spun and/or twisted and/or woven, and
                                                               5' and
   every first individual fibre enclose an angle T between
   85' relative to the longitudinal axis of the connecting
 5 element. As a result,  the connecting element achieves the
   possibility of being elongated in the axial direction and
   achieving an elastic action, even if the individual fibres
   themselves are made from a non-elastic or only very slightly
   elastic material.
10
   The connecting element is advantageously embodied in a tubular
   shape,  and the elastomer element is arranged within a portion
   of the axial cavity of the tubular connecting element. The
   course of the elasticity curve,   also referred to as the strain
15 characteristic, of such a combination provides a progressive
   course, because the cross-section under compression and the
   local stress concentration, also referred to as the shape
   factor,  increase as a result of the large deformation.
   Additionally, the progressive course of the strain
20 characteristic is influenced by the angle with which the
   individual fibres of the connecting element are woven,
   plaited, spun, twisted and/or knitted relative to the
   longitudinal axis of the same. With an increasing tensile
   stress,  the elasticity characteristic of the elastomer
25 element, which is determined by the pressure of the tubular
   connecting element on the elastomer element in the radial
   direction, initially predominates. At the same time,    the
   individual fibres of the connecting element are aligned from
   an angle T relative  to the longitudinal  axis without tensile
30 stress to an angle of approximately 0' relative to the
   longitudinal axis with strong tensile stress.   The combination
   of connecting element and elastomer element can stretch no
   further and the elasticity declines strongly.

                                    5
    A connecting element in which the elastomer is embodied as    a
    plurality of second individual fibres and is spun and/or
    knitted and/or woven and/or twisted and/or plaited with a
    plurality of first individual fibres to form a connecting
 5  element provides a similar strain characteristic. It is
    advantageous if the individual fibres contain a polymer,
    especially polyethylene and/or polyester,  and the connecting
    element is formed from a plurality of individual fibres,
                                                          The named
    especially made from polyethylene and/or polyester.
                                                             that
10  polymers provide a relatively high elastic modulus, so
    after a stretching of the woven fibre material,  the elasticity
    of the combination is strongly increased. Furthermore, these
                                                         for
    polymers are bio-compatible and therefore suitable
    implantation in the body.
15
    It is also advantageous  if an elastomer element is arranged as
    a cushioning device in the interior of an outer element of the
    anchoring element between a contact surface of the outer
    element and a sleeve.  In this context, the connecting element
20  is fixed in the sleeve and guided out of the anchoring element
    through an opening in the contact surface of the outer
     element. The elastomer element thus takes over the task of a
     cushioning element and can, for example, replace an
     arrangement of metallic springs.
25
     In this context, it is advantageous if the sleeve is mounted
     in a displaceable manner in the outer element. In the event of
     a tensile stress on the connecting element, the sleeve itself
     is pressed by the displaceable sleeve against the elastomer
 30  element, which itself rigidly mounted through contact against
     the anchoring element, and leads to a compression of the
     elastomer element.

                                      6
     In this context,  it is particularly advantageous if the
     connecting element is arranged in an axial recess   in the
     elastomer element.  When the elastomer element is compressed,
     the elastomer element also expands in the axial direction and,
  5  in this context, clamps in the connecting element. This
     represents a further strong increase of the elastic modulus of
     the combination of anchoring element and elastomer element.
     It is also advantageous, if the connecting element is guided
 10 around the periphery of the elastomer element in a screw shape
    respectively spiral shape.   In the case of a tensile stress of
    the connecting element,   a radially inwardly directed force
    acts on the periphery of the elastomer element and presses the
    latter together. Accordingly, the rigidity of the elastomer
15  element achieves a cushioned elongation of the implantable
    system. Here also,   the compressibility of the elastomer
    element decreases with increasing constriction, and the
    elastic modulus rises with increasing compression.    If the
    sleeve is arranged in a displaceable manner within the
20  connecting element,   a compression in the axial direction has
    an additional effect.
    It is also advantageous if the sleeve is fixed to the outer
    element in an immovable manner, especially if the spring curve
25  of the system is not to be influenced by an additional axial
    compression.
    It is further advantageous if the elastomer element provides
    peripheral grooves which do not extend parallel to the
30  longitudinal axis of the elastomer element,   and the connecting
    element is guided in these grooves.   These grooves prevent the
    connecting element from slipping out and guarantee a
    controlled pressure-application point on the elastomer
    element. Furthermore,   such an arrangement simplifies the

                                   7
   assembly of the anchoring element respectively the threading
   of the thread through the anchoring element.
   An elastomer element which is formed from a plurality of
 5 tongue-shaped protrusions is also advantageous, whereas the
   protrusions are directed inwardly in alternation on opposite
   sides of the interior of the outer element of the anchoring
   element and attached in a radially overlapping manner. In this
   context, the connecting element is guided in the intermediate
10 space between the protrusions. In the case of a tensile stress
   on the connecting element, the tongue-shaped protrusions  of
   the elastomer element are deformed in the direction of the
   tensile force. With an increasing deformation of the
   protrusions, the spacing distance between the protrusions  is
15 reduced and the thread is clamped between the protrusions.
   This achieves a considerable increase in the elastic modulus.
   It is advantageous if the elastomer element provides a
   cylindrical shape. The elastic modulus and the compressibility
20 of the elastomer element are strongly dependent upon the shape
   of the elastomer element. The cylindrical shape allows a
   uniform, radially inwardly acting transfer of force. However,
   the cylindrical shape also allows a good transmission of force
   in the axial direction.
25
   The invention is described in the following with reference to
   exemplary embodiments and explained in greater detail on the
   basis of the drawings.  The drawings show:
30 Fig. 1      a system according to the invention implanted in a
               knee joint in a schematic view;

                                  8
   Fig. 2      a schematic view of a strain characteristic of a
               soft, biological tissue by comparison with other
               materials;
 5 Fig. 3A     a first exemplary embodiment according to the
               invention of a connecting element with elastomer
               element in a schematic view;
   Fig. 3B     a second exemplary embodiment according to the
10             invention of a connecting element with elastomer
               element in a schematic view;
   Fig. 4      a sectional view through a first exemplary
               embodiment of an anchoring element according to
15             the invention with an elastomer element;
   Fig. 5      a section through a second exemplary embodiment of
               an anchoring element according to the invention
               with elastomer element; and
20
   Fig. 6      a section through a third exemplary embodiment of
               an anchoring element according to the invention
               with tongue-shaped elastomer element.
25 Similar parts are marked with the same reference signs in all
   Figures.
   Fig. 1 shows the system 100 according to the invention
   inserted into a flexed human knee joint.  The anchoring element
30 10 in the exemplary embodiment is screwed ventrally into the
   proximal region of the tibia bone 50,  which is joined by a
   first bone tunnel 51 which leads to the interior 60 of the
   joint. A narrow second bone tunnel 41 is drilled through the
   adjacent distal end of the femur bone 40.  The connecting

                                   9
   element 20 is fixed there to a holding element 30.  In this
   context, the holding element is supported on the outer surface
   of the femur bone 40.  The connecting element leads through the
   second bone tunnel 41 via the interior 60 of the joint and the
 5 first bone tunnel 51 to the connecting element and is fixed by
   the latter.
   Fig. 2 shows a diagram with strain characteristics of
   different materials in which the stress present is plotted
10 against a given strain. Characteristic 71 represents the
   typical strain characteristic of soft biological tissue,  such
   as a human ligament.  The spring characteristic 72 was recorded
   in a rubber-elastic polymer,  the line 73 in tempering steel.
   As shown in the diagram, elastomers provide a progressive
15 strain characteristic similar to that of soft biological
   tissue. The elastic modulus respectively the cushioning
   constant, which are specified by the gradient of the curve,
   provides a similar, relatively flatter course with a slight
   strain. However, the progression begins only with a relatively
20 greater strain and with reduced thickness. By contrast,
   metallic elements, such as tempering steel, provide an elastic
   modulus which approaches the spring characteristic in the rear
   progressive range.
25 It was surprisingly shown that the elastic modulus of an
   elastomer element which is integrated in a tubular connecting
   element or otherwise cooperates with the connecting element
   can be approximated to the strain characteristic of a natural
   ligament.
30
   Fig. 3A represents a tubular connecting element 110 in the
   axial hollow cavity 122 of which an elastomer element 125 is
   arranged, which is shown once again separately above the
   connecting element by way of explanation. A cylindrical

                                    10
   elastomer element 125 with a length 1 of preferably 20 mm
   100 mm, for example,  60 mm, and with a diameter of preferably
   0.5 mm to 10 mm, for example, 2 mm is integrated in an
   exemplary 120 mm long tubular connecting element 120.   The
 5 connecting element 120 comprises a plurality of first
   individual fibres 121,  which are knitted, plaited, woven,
   twisted, and/or turned to form a tubular connecting element
   120.
10 In this context, the first individual fibres 121 preferably
   comprise polyethylene and/or polyester. The connecting element
   120 can be manufactured from first individual fibres 121 of a
   single material, but also from first individual fibres 121 of
   different materials.  In this context, these individual fibres
15 121 are orientated at an angle T 123 relative to the
   longitudinal axis 124  of the connecting element 120.  Through
   the cooperation of the elastomer element 125 with the tubular
   connecting element 120,  the connecting element 120  shows a
   large extension with a small tensile force, that is,   a low
20 elastic modulus, which increases strongly as soon as the angle
   T 123 between the individual fibres  121 and the longitudinal
   axis 124 is reduced respectively tends towards zero.   The angle
   T is preferably disposed between 5* and 850, by particular
   preference between 350  and 55'.
25
   Fig. 3B shows a connecting element 120'  in which the elastomer
   element is embodied from a plurality of second individual
   fibres 126. These are spun together with the first individual
   fibres 121 to form a connecting element   121', preferably
30 without axial cavity. However, the connecting element 121'   can
   also be plaited, knitted, twisted, spun and/or woven and can
   provide an axial cavity.

                                   11
    Figs. 4-6 each show an anchoring element 110,    110', 110''   in
   which an elastomer element 115,   117,  119 acts as a cushioning
   element. An anchoring element 110,    110', 110''  provides,  for
   example,  a cylindrical outer element 103, which is embodied in
 5 a pot shape and in the base 105 of which an opening 112      is
   introduced. The cylindrical outer element 103 comprises,      for
   example,  an outer thread with which the anchoring element is
   screwed into the first bone 50,   see Fig.  1. At the open end
   face 104 of the outer element 103,   a sleeve 114 is introduced,
10 which is mounted in a displaceable manner in the interior of
   the outer element. The sleeve 114 provides a fastening element
   111, which comprises,  for example,  two conical   segments.
   Between the inner surfaces 118 of the fastening element 111,
   the connecting element 20 is fixed in a non-slip manner. In
15 the event of a tensile stress, the fastening element 111
   itself is pressed against the diametrically opposed contact
   surfaces 113 of the sleeve 114 and is accordingly rigidly
   fixed in the sleeve 114.
20 In Fig.  4, an elastomer element 115 is disposed between the
   contact surface 101 of the outer element 103 and a parallel
   contact surface of the sleeve 114 disposed opposite.     The
   elastomer element 115 does not fill the interior 102
   completely, especially in the radial direction. The elastomer
25 element 115 provides a coaxial recess 116,    through which the
   connecting element 20 is guided and leaves through the opening
   112 of the anchoring element in the direction towards the bone
   tunnel 51.
30 At the start of a tensile stress,   the elastomer element 115
   continuously fills the free volume in the interior 102,      which
   is reflected in a flat course of the strain characteristic. As
   soon as the elastomer element 115 almost fills the entire
   volume,  an exponential rise occurs in the curve because of the

                                   12
   non-compressibility of the elastomer. Accordingly, overall,
   the desired progressivity corresponding to the curve 71 in
   Fig. 2 is obtained.
 5 Fig. 5 shows an anchoring element 110' which is constructed
   with regard to the outer element 103 and sleeve 114
   corresponding to the anchoring element 110.   Once again, an
   elastomer element 119 is introduced into the interior 102 of
   the outer element 103.  The elastomer element 119 provides a
10 cylindrical shape. The base surface of the elastomer element
   is preferably round, but can also be embodied to be oval or
   angular. The connecting element 20 is now guided in a screw
   shape respectively spiral shape around the periphery of the
   elastomer element 119 and leaves the anchoring element 110'
15 via the opening 112 in the base 105 of the outer element 103.
   If a tensile stress now acts on the connecting element 20,
   this tensile force is transmitted through the connecting
   element in the radial direction to the elastomer element 119.
20 At the start of the tensile stress, the elastomer element 119
   can be compressed and, in the case of a continuing tensile
   stress,  reaches its minimal volume and is then incompressible.
   A compression of the elastomer element 119 in the axial
   direction takes place only to a small extent because the
25 majority of the tensile force is used for the compression of
   the elastomer element 119 in the radial direction.
   To eliminate the additional axial compression through the
   sleeve 114,  the sleeve 114 can be fixed immovably in the outer
30 element,  as .B. shown in Fig. 6. This leads to a less steep
   rise of the spring characteristic.
   To prevent a slipping of the connecting element 20 on the
   periphery of the elastomer element 119,   grooves, which are not

                                   13
    illustrated, can be introduced peripherally into the elastomer
    element in which the connecting element 20 is placed and
   guided.
 5 Fig.  6 shows a further exemplary embodiment of the cushioning
   device through an elastomer element 117 which is formed by a
   plurality of tongue-shaped protrusions 117a,    117b. These
   protrusions 117a,  117b are arranged offset in the axial
   direction in the interior 106 of the outer element 103 and
10 formed radially inwards.  They extend radially beyond the axis
   of the anchoring element 110'  and are distanced from one
   another in the axial direction. The connecting element 20 is
   held by the fastening element 118 and further guided around
   the tongue-shaped protrusions 117a,   117b to the opening 112.
15
   At the start of a tensile stress,   the protrusions  117a, 117b
   are deformed in the axial direction towards the base 105 of
   the outer element 103. Once again, this corresponds to the
   flat region of the strain characteristic 71 in Fig.     2. With
20 increasing tensile stress, the connecting element 20 is
   clamped between the protrusions 117a,   117b now arranged in
   contact with one another. If the protrusions 117a,    117b have
   been deformed maximally until contact on the base 105 of the
   outer element 103,  no further compression is possible. This
25 corresponds to the progressive course of the strain
   characteristic 71 in Fig. 2.
   The rise and the commencement of the progressive region of the
   strain characteristic can be varied through the selection of
30 the material for the elastomer element 115,   117,  119.  Suitable
   materials for the elastomer element 115,   117,  119 are
   polyethylene, polyester, polyurethane or silicon or a mixture
   of the named materials.  Furthermore,  the strain characteristic
   is determined by the free volume in the interior 102 of the

                                 14
  outer element 103 and the shape, the diameter and the length
  of the elastomer element 115, 117, 118.
  All of the features described and/or designated can be
5 advantageously combined with one another within the scope of
  the invention. The invention is not restricted to the
  exemplary embodiments described.

                              15
                            Claims
   1. A system for a controlled stressing of a
      reconstructed or re-natured ligament of a human or
      animal body comprising:
 5    an anchoring element for implantation in a first
      bone, at least one connecting element, a holding
      element for holding the at least one connecting
      element in a second bone, and characterised in that
      at least one elastomer element is arranged in the
10    connecting element, wherein the elastomer element
      provides peripheral grooves to guarantee a controlled
      pressure-application point on the elastomer element,
      wherein said grooves do not extend parallel to the
      longitudinal axis of the elastomer element, and
15    wherein the connecting element is guided in said
      grooves.
   2. The system according to claim 1, characterised in
      that the elastomer element is made of polyethylene
20    and/or polyester and/or polyurethane and/or silicone.
   3. The system according to claim 1 or 2,  characterised
      in that the cooperation of the elastomer element with
25    the connecting element leads to an elasticity
      characteristic of the system similar to that of a
      natural ligament.
   4. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
30    characterised in that the connecting element is
      plaited and/or twisted and/or knitted and/or woven
      from a plurality of first individual  fibres.

                                16
   5.  The system according to claim 4,  characterised in
       that at least a part of first individual fibres
       enclose an angle between 350  and 550 relative to the
 5     longitudinal axis of the connecting element.
   6.  The system according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
       characterised in that the connecting element is
       embodied 15 in a tubular shape, and the elastomer
10     element is arranged in a portion of an axial cavity
       of the tubular connecting element.
   7.  The system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 20
15     characterised in that the elastomer element is
       embodied as a plurality of second individual fibres
       and is plaited and/or knitted and/or woven and/or
       twisted and/or spun with a plurality of first
       individual fibres  to form a connecting element.
20
   8.  The system according to any one of claims 4, 5 or 7,
       characterised in that each first individual fibre
       contains a polymer, especially polyethylene or
       polyester, and the connecting element is formed from
25     a plurality of these first individual fibres.
   9.  The system according to claim 1, characterised in
       that the connecting element is longer than the
30     elastomer element.
   10. The system according to claim 1, characterised in
       that the elastomer element provides a relatively
       smaller elastic modulus than the connecting element.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
