                                          ABSTRACT
Fitting room management and occupancy monitoring system for retail operations having
fitting rooms wherein the system if capable of notifying staff of fitting room occupancy, the
need for cleaning, and/or the need for customer help in real time as well as collecting and
tracking data of fitting room activity according to preset business rules. The system further
assists retail operations with reduction of theft incidents, improvement of conversion rates
and employee compliance rates.

              Merchandise Activity Sensor System and Methods of Using Same
                               RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application has been divided out of Australian patent application 2015317354
(AU 2015317354). In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject
matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That subject matter should be
readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the
invention as defined in the appended claims.
         AU 2015317354 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international
application PCT/US2015/051098 (published as WO 2016/044814 Al). The full disclosure
of WO 2016/044814 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
         This application claims the benefit of priority from United States Patent Application
No. 14/629,233 filed on February 23, 2015, which claims the benefit of priority from United
States Provisional Patent Application No. 62/052,026 filed on September 18, 2014, the
disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention pertains generally to merchandise activity sensors.        More
particularly, the present invention pertains to sensors and systems using same for increasing
the awareness of interactivity with merchandise on retail store displays (shelves, peg hooks,
merchandise pushers, and other Point of Purchase displays) in order to facilitate more
effective customer service, reduce theft and to provide additional analysis data related to
merchandise/shopper interaction.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Retailers suffer enormous losses due to theft of merchandise from the sales floor
recent studies peg this loss at $15.7 billion in 2013-2014 in the United States alone
(www.GlobalRetailTheftBarometer.com).           While some of this is due to individual
shoplifters, an increasing proportion of the loss is through Organized Retail Crime
                                                1
10547902 1.docx

(hereinafter "ORC") shoplifting rings that typically use "booster teams" to sweep large
quantities of select merchandise from store shelves. Shoplifters and boosters alike try very
hard to escape the notice of store teams by distracting the store team or otherwise lifting
merchandise in store areas not likely to be immediately noticed.      Simply knowing that
merchandise movement is occurring in areas susceptible to theft activity can provide the
store team with increased awareness so actions can be taken to reduce these sources of
shrink. Detection and prompt notification of activity typical of a sweep (rapid removal of
multiple items) heightens urgency and enables store team members to take actions that can
safely circumvent costly in-process sweeps.
         In order to reduce and even prevent ORC, retailers employ various strategies to
monitor merchandise shopper interactions. The following examples represent some of the
known strategies and why there remains a need for improved merchandise activity sensing.
         RFID Item-Level Tags: Placing an RFID tag on every item of interest in a store and
placing an RFID reader within range of all merchandise displays can provide an excellent
and superior method of detecting suspicious events (e.g., theft), stock positon, and other
valuable information. However, this is prohibitively expensive - while item level tags might
be justifiable on higher cost items likely to be stolen, it remains prohibitively costly to
purchase and install RFID readers capable of covering an entire store.          The present
invention, while providing a less elegant approach, is far less costly and still provides an
awareness that helps store staff.
         "NeWave Smart Shelf' by NeWave Sensor Solutions uses RFID technology but
instead of placing the RFID tags on the products, the tags are mounted on the shelves such
that the placement of merchandise on the tag blocks the reading of that tag. As product is
removed, the tag is sensed.      These are sometimes used with product pushers or other
merchandising systems. Though this approach can be much more accurate in detecting an
actual removal / replacement of product than the invention and can also detect shelf-stock
outs, the cost to cover a shelf is enormous in terms of the equipment required, installation
of tags and readers (AC power is required), and the very significant cost of ongoing
reconfiguration as merchandise planograms change.
                                              2
10547902 1.docx

         Shopperception uses a 3D detection device mounted above a merchandise
interaction fixture to detect reaches into the fixture and removal/replacement of merchandise
located at specific vertical plane X/Y coordinates. This is an excellent method for detecting
these interactions and can be much more accurate than the invention, however, it also
involves very expensive equipment that is costly to install and not practical for use at a
significant number of merchandise fixtures throughout all stores in a chain.        For those
applications requiring less precision, the invention is economically a preferred approach.
         Adhesive Tethers are typically used with expensive display merchandise (such as
cameras and cell phones) to permit shoppers to hold the item within the range of a retractable
tether. Removing the tether triggers an alarm. This approach will detect actual removal
more accurately than the invention but is not practical for use when the actual item will be
purchased by the shopper.
         Patent Application      WO    2014047272      (Invue  Security   Products) and   WO
2014031651 (Southern Imperial) each disclose a device which detects motion of the product
to which it is attached. Typically, this is in a "spider wrap" form factor in which a housing
containing the sensor is firmly attached to relatively large high-cost merchandise; when
moved from a shelf, the device can emit audio. The device also includes a light sensor such
that when motion is detected and no light is sensed, it is assumed the merchandise is in a
bag or otherwise obscured and possibly in the possession of a thief, which may then result
in triggering an integral audio alarm. Unlike the present invention, this device must be
affixed to individual merchandise items and is not suitable for smaller items.
         Smart Pushers use a variety of methods to detect removal of merchandise from a
pusher merchandising system; many of these also sense the amount of merchandise
remaining in the pusher (including detection of stock-out conditions). While all of these
will more reliably sense actual product removal than the invention, they require the
considerable cost of instrumenting each pusher with sensing devices supported by
electronics. By comparison, the invention can detect each merchandise dispense from any
and all pushers on an entire shelving unit (i.e., multiple shelves on a rack) with a single
wireless device, providing a much lower cost path to much of these benefits.
                                                 3
10547902 1.docx

         "Shelf Sensing Film" by Djb Group LLC (Patent US8695878) is a sensing film
placed on the shelf which detects the presence of merchandise placed upon the film. This
can very accurately detect merchandise removal and replacement and even stock status,
however, it is very expensive to install and requires considerable ongoing administration as
planograms change. For purposes of basic activity detection, the invention provides a far
lower cost approach and requires no special consideration in the planogram process.
         In some cases, video systems with real-time analytics can detect suspicious
merchandise interactions. However, reasonably thorough coverage requires a large number
of cameras installed at very high expense - even then, it would be difficult for cameras to
independently detect many suspicious events.       As will be discussed, integration of the
present invention with cameras can greatly increase the effectiveness of either solution
independently.
         Electronic Article Surveillance (EAS) systems trigger a local alarm at the exit door
of a store when an EAS tag that has not been disarmed by a cashier prior to passing through
the door. Though ubiquitous, these systems have little effect in deterring boosters (or even
seasoned shoplifters) as the EAS alarm simply indicates that merchandise has just left the
store and most retailers do not pursue suspects outside of the store. By comparison, a
primary use of the present invention raises staff awareness at the location in the store where
the merchandise is displayed, which can provide store staff with the opportunity to actually
deter the theft or provide needed customer assistance.       Likewise, a second use of the
invention (in which a location sensing method is incorporated and the device is attached
directly to high-value merchandise) provides a means of notification when an item is
approaching the exit area but is still well away from the exit itself, which permits raising
awareness, triggering of video capture, and other actions prior to exit.
         Merchandise Dispensing Devices are typically anti-sweep mechanisms for razor
blades, baby formula, and certain other high cost items that help avoid sweeps by only
permitting one item to be taken at a time. These dispensing units can be quite costly and
multiple items can still be removed from most of these dispensers, if only one at a time.
This provides yet another application for the present invention, which can detect the unique
vibration signature created with each dispense by most of these devices (as well as detect
                                               4
10547902 1.docx

malicious efforts to gain entry into them) and drive awareness to the store team of these
events.
         Keeper Boxes are rugged locked plastic boxes (with integral EAS tags) which deter
theft by increasing the sheer size of small valuable items, making them harder to conceal
and more difficult to remove the EAS tag. However, these units take up much more shelf
space, reducing the number of facings and depth of stock available for sale on the floor.
Even when Keeper Boxes are used, the invention helps increase staff awareness of
merchandise interactivity by detecting the removal/replacement of these boxes on store
displays.
         Japanese   patent application 1998-140263       submitted by Tsutomu Tachibana
describes triggering a musical sound on a nearby speaker (triggered by a radio transmission)
when vibration on a merchandise display occurs.           This would increase awareness of
potential theft activity but the lack of intelligent event filtering would result in numerous
notifications without regard for the likely urgency of the event or the ability of the store staff
to respond, eventually reducing these notifications to background "white noise" that is
increasingly ignored by store staff, negating the entire value of the device. The inability of
the device to route specific location messages to various wireless communication devices
typically used by store staff also seriously limits broad implementation of such a solution
set. While the Tachibana approach and the present invention both use an accelerometer for
sensing, the processing of that activity resulting in appropriate categorized alarm levels
being delivered to appropriate store staff members provides improvements supporting
ongoing effectiveness.
         An additional problem area for retailers that the invention addresses is providing
timely assistance to shoppers on the sales floor. Currently, it is often a somewhat random
process for sales clerks to intersect with shoppers desiring assistance when and where
needed.      Shopper help buttons, as described in the Deal Clerk Paging System patent
4,741,020, and similar devices are used in some stores to enable shoppers to summon
assistance. However, many stores find sales conversions and total sales tickets frequently
increase if sales clerks approach shoppers when they are interacting with certain categories
of merchandise - even when the shopper has not determined or indicated that assistance is
                                                5
10547902 1.docx

desired. The invention provides a mechanism to empower sales teams to efficiently and
proactively assist these shoppers through increased awareness of in-store activity.
         In light of the above, it is an object of the present invention to provide the desired
features described herein as well as additional advantages.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention is a device for detecting the removal of merchandise from
retail merchandise fixtures by sensing vibration patterns induced through the merchandising
fixture structure. The act of removing merchandise from a display fixture induces vibration
into the fixture. The Merchandise Activity Sensor (MAS), which is a battery powered
wireless device, mounts to the store fixture and uses an integral single or multi-axis
accelerometer to detect these vibrations. Various algorithms comprising combinations of
vibration level, discernible vibration events, timing of events, quantity of events, and (in
some cases) frequency content of the vibration signal are used to determine when the
vibration pattern is an event of modest interest (such as typical shopping or possible
shoplifting - a "Type 1 Alarm") or of high interest (such as a possible sweep incident - a
"Type 2 Alarm"). Variables within these algorithms are adjusted for optimum results based
on characteristics of the monitored merchandise and of the merchandise fixture type (e.g.,
gondola shelf, gondola pegboard hook, pusher, pallet racking, etc.).
         In most cases, a Type 1 Alarm causes the device to output a local audio sound and/or
to flash an integral light - these actions raise the awareness of any nearby person(s) and are
known to deter theft activity. However, the service strategy of some stores is such that one
or more members of the store team are notified via communication devices of most or all
Type I events to enable them to efficiently provide a proactive service presence, which is
known to increase sales. A Type 2 Alarm typically additionally results in a notification to
one or more members of a store team and/or may cause a video system to automatically zero
in on the area of interest for manual or automatic analysis of the event.
         While this patent includes functionality on the MAS (that is, the sensor device), it
must be remembered that many important functions - several of which drive certain claims
- are based on system level functions including time of day and interaction with other store
                                                 6
10547902 1.docx

systems. An example already mentioned is the integration with a video system and possible
collaboration to validate an alarm situation.        Another example includes evaluation and
intelligent alarm declarations when activity is detected by more than one MAS in the same
area; yet another is when different MAS devices separately detect related events; and yet
another is the modulation of alarm thresholds based on the level of traffic and/or staffing in
the store.
         In addition, the MAS can also be attached to actual merchandise (typically high
value items), the movement of which can trigger Type 1 awareness notifications.               By
incorporating location awareness sensing within the MAS, awareness notifications can also
include location information. For example, a MAS in range of location beacons placed at
areas one would travel to exit the store could cause the MAS to trigger a Type 2 alarm that
results in notifications to store personnel and video systems that include the current location
of the merchandise.
         MAS provides detection of merchandise interaction activity to alert store employees
of possible shopper engagement opportunities that could result in building sales through up
sell/cross-sell efforts.
         MAS also provides detection of suspicious merchandise interaction activity to
increase store staff awareness that can help reduce actual theft from the store (shrink).
         MAS further provides collection of merchandise interaction activity data for use in
merchandising study analytics used typically for evaluating effectiveness of new displays,
positioning, packaging, merchandise selections, and other purposes.
         It is an object of the present invention to increase awareness of the location of
shoppers that may desire assistance, which promotes efficient shopper engagement by store
employees, often leading to increased sales.
         It is another object of the present invention to increase awareness of potential theft
activity at the point of theft, a location typically well inside the store, which enables staff to
respond and, by mere presence, deter theft activity.
                                                  7
10547902 1.docx

         It is yet another object of the present invention to provide real time awareness of an
actual theft in progress that can enable loss prevention professionals to apprehend a suspect
and/or to increase the probability of conviction through the use of video push (to mobile
devices and monitoring stations) and video capture triggered by MAS detected merchandise
activity.
         It is still another object of the present invention to provide a unique sensing method
through the use of an accelerometer to detect vibrations induced into a retail store display
fixture due to merchandise movement/removal/replacement. Additionally, when attached
directly to a high value merchandise item, the MAS detects when the item is in motion and
uses location sensing to determine if the item is entering an area in which alarm notifications
should be sent, i.e. approaching a store exit.
         It is another object of the present invention to be adaptable and wireless. Algorithms
enable MAS to detect activity on various types of merchandising fixtures, rather than being
dedicated to a single specific type.        For example, merchandising pushers exhibit a very
distinctive vibration signature when an item is removed from any pusher on any shelf of a
store fixture (gondola). Being wireless simplifies installation since MAS can be readily
installed without the need for signal or power wires. This also enables the sensor to easily
adapt to new store layouts during remodels and periodic fixture or merchandise resets.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         The novel features of this invention, as well as the invention itself, both as to its
structure and its operation, will be best understood from the accompanying drawings, taken
in conjunction with the accompanying description, in which similar reference characters
refer to similar parts, and in which:
         Figure 1 illustrates a basic functional overview of the MAS.
         Figure 2 illustrates a block diagram of MAS device functional components.
         Figure 3 illustrates system level integrations used to process MAS alarms.
                                                  8
10547902 1.docx

         Figure 4 provides a flow chart of MAS system level alarm processing.
         Figure 5 provides various topology embodiments of MAS: 5A) People presence
sensors to filter MAS activity notifications; 5B) Filtering and Alarm Summing by multiple
MAS; 5C) MAS cluster processing via remote annunciator; and 5D) MAS notifications via
peer communication device.
         Figure 6 illustrates the Location Based Services function of MAS.
         Figure 7 provides a block diagram illustrating the Mobile Self-Checkout Non
Purchase Interaction Detection.
         Figure 8 illustrates a typical Public View Monitor (PVM).
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Definitions:
         "Merchandise Activity Sensor (MAS)" as used in the present invention is a hardware
module containing a single or multi-axis accelerometer, micro-controller, radio transceiver
and/or an audio annunciator and LED, and firmware enabling it to perform the function
described. "Touch" as used in the present invention is the detection of merchandise being
removed or placed; MAS typically does not alarm in response to individual touches but
retains activity data for reporting purposes.
         "Fixture" as used in the present invention is any secondary surface used for holding
an object. Examples of fixtures include, but are not limited to, shelves, displays, gondolas,
merchandise pushers, peg hooks, pallets, cardboard displays, clothing hangers, merchandise
dispensers and the like.
         "Vibration" as used in the present invention is any change in the equilibrium state
of an object upon which a means of detection as described herein is associated, the change
being along the x-, y- or z-axis.
                                                9
10547902  .docx

         "Direct force" as used in the present invention is a force that results in movement of
an object from a state of equilibrium when the force is applied to the object.
         "Indirect force" as used in this present invention is a force that results in movement
of an object from a state of equilibrium when the force is applied to a secondary object or
surface.
         "Type 1 Alarm" as used in the present invention is an alarm triggered due to
detection of vibration consistent with multiple touches typical of shopping or shoplifting.
         "Type 2 Alarm" as used in the present invention is an alarm triggered due to
detection of rapid removal of multiple merchandise items, which may indicate a sweep in
progress.
         "Notification" as used in the present invention is a message to staff via any
communication device or channel including but not limited to overhead PA speakers, 2-way
radio, wired or wireless telephone, smait wireless device, or pager. Notification can also
include display of status on a touchscreen, computer screen, or mobility device. It can also
mean sending information to another store system, such as a video management system.
         "Confirmation action" as used in the present invention is an act of a staff member
interacting with the system in response to a notification which results in a closed loop
confirmation.
         "Boosters" as used in the present invention are theft teams (most commonly working
on behalf of an Organized Retail Crime ring) that typically steal large quantities of targeted
merchandise from store shelves.
         "Sweep" as used in the present invention is the act of removing a large quantity of
the same merchandise item with the intent of theft. Sweeping is routinely practiced by
Boosters.
         "Gondola" as used in the present invention is the metal modular shelving units
typical of supermarket aisles and many other types of stores.
                                                10
10547902  .docx

         "Merchandise pushers" as used in the present invention are commonly used on
gondola shelves and in some types of secure merchandise dispensers for holding a row
("facing") of merchandise between two rails and using a spring-loaded pushing device to
keep the merchandise firmly against a stop on the front of the shelf. When a merchandise
item is removed, the pusher "pops" the row of merchandise forward to fill the empty space.
         "Location Based Services (LBS)" as used in the present invention is a system
comprised of an array of sensors and beacons located in store shells for use in identifying
shopper interest in merchandise.      In conjunction with MAS, LBS can provide data on
shopper interaction with specific merchandise and send relevant information to customers.
         A functional overview of the MAS is provided in Figure 1. When a single package
is removed from a retail merchandise fixture, the MAS registers this as a touch. If one or
more touches are detected meeting definable criteria, the LED flashes once and the
annunciator beeps (or an audio message plays) indicating a typical shopping event occurred.
In the alternative, when multiple packages are removed from a retail merchandise fixture
within a short period of time meeting definable criteria, the MAS LED alarm flashes, the
annunciator alarm / voice sounds, and a remote notification occurs indicating a potential
sweep or at least multiple item movement requiring investigation. A radio transceiver sends
the alarm to the system controller which in turn sends a notification alarm to a
communication device (such as 2-way radios, pagers, wireless phones, smart mobile
devices, PA loudspeakers, etc.).
Operating Sequence:
         The following description is a typical operating sequence of MAS provided as an
example of the functionality of the invention and is in no way meant to limit the scope of
the invention and/or its capabilities. The operating variables permit the elimination and
modification of operating steps based on user preference and potential situations.
         In the static state, the microprocessor unit is in a low power sleep mode.     The
detection of vibrations by the integral accelerometer that exceed a set variable threshold
"wakes up" the microprocessor unit.
                                              11
10547902  .docx

         The microprocessor uses assigned, pre-programed (or learned) algorithms to
evaluate vibration amplitude levels across time to determine if merchandise movement
meeting criteria for declaring a Type 1 alarm have occurred. If yes (conditions meet the
criteria for a Type 1 alarm), the local audio annunciator and/or visual indicator (typically a
LED) are momentarily activated to alert the shopper/thief that activity has been detected.
The annunciator and indicator are typically integral to the MAS device. However, since
MAS must be mounted for optimum vibration sensing, a separate nearby module (the
"Remote Annunciator") positioned for optimum visibility and controlled by MAS via wire
or wireless signal may provide auxiliary annunciation / indication.         If conditions do not
meet the criteria for a Type 1 alarm or if no further vibration is detected after a Type 1 alarm,
the microprocessor recalibrates for the next event and returns to the low power sleep mode.
Optionally, MAS can be configured to transmit a Type I alarm to the system controller,
such as may be desired for high service touch environments or to gather data related to
routine shopping activity. As a further option, data can also be retained at the device level
and accumulated for periodic transmission to the infrastructure level as a means for reducing
the quantity of transmissions and extending battery life.
         After an alarm event and/or periodically, the MAS internally recalibrates the
accelerometer, for example, a precisely mounted 3-axis accelerometer typically senses 0 g's
in two axis and I g in the vertical axis but off-axis installation are compensated through the
calibration process. The recalibration also resets the threshold to normalize out any ambient
vibration not considered by the algorithms for alarm determination.
         The microprocessor continues to evaluate the vibration to determine if, based on the
assigned algorithm, conditions meeting criteria for declaring a Type 2 alarm occur. If yes,
the conditions meet the criteria for a Type 2 alarm, the radio transmits this event trigger to
the System Controller, which follows business rules that typically result in one or more
notifications to employees or other systems. Optionally, the annunciator and/or LED on the
MAS device or the Remote Annunciator may activate for a lengthier period of time or with
escalated volume and content (such as a voice message) relative to a Type I event. Though
this example illustrates a Type 1 followed by Type 2 alarm, it is not necessary to transition
through a Type 1 prior to declaring a Type 2 alarm. For example, vibration activity of a
rapid repeated or extended nature exceeding defined time duration and/or amplitude
thresholds may constitute an immediate Type 2 alarm.
                                                12
10547902  .docx

Alarm Algorithms:
         Various algorithms determine alarm conditions. Vibration amplitude, duration of
vibration, and repeated incidents of vibration activities are most commonly evaluated for
alarm determination.        However, frequency domain information using Fast Fourier
Transform (FFT) or other analysis may also be used to identify specific vibration signatures
relevant to certain types of events.      The following provide high level descriptions for
anticipated algorithms and outcomes applicable to MAS:
     *   Gondola Shelving:      Tests confirm that all shelving on a gondola unit can be
         monitored by a single MAS. Vibration induced into the shelving transmits through
         the uprights and into the backboard, where the MAS typically mounts.              The
         algorithm sensitivity level is dependent upon the type of merchandise on the shelves
         (e.g., heavy or light). It should be noted that while a single MAS can be used to
         detect activity anywhere on a gondola, it is sometime advantageous to mount a MAS
         on each shelving unit so as to more precisely identify the merchandise being moved.
     *   Pallet Rack Shelving: Pallet rack shelving is typical of large DIY warehouse stores.
         Like gondolas, a MAS can typically detect merchandise movement on multiple
         shelves of pallet rack shelving. However, due to the heavy construction of these
         fixtures, for best detection on some types of merchandise, the MAS would mount
         directly to the bottom of a shelf. Also like gondolas, algorithm sensitivity is
         dependent on merchandise type.
     *   Peg Hooks:      Tests have shown excellent detection of merchandise removal from
         gondola peg hooks mounted anywhere on a monitored pegboard.              This removal
         generates a very characteristic vibration signature that is readily detected. Multiple
         incidences of this signature across a limited time frame is used to distinguish
         between typical shopping behavior (Type 1 Alarms) and possible sweep activity
         (Type 2 alarms).      Monitoring can also be effective on peg hooks and hangers
         mounted to slat panels, wire racks, and other fixtures that support hanging
         merchandise.
                                                13
10547902  .docx

     *   Locked Peg Hooks: Peg hooks with integral locking mechanisms, which require
         assistance from sales staff to access the desired merchandise, are commonly used to
         reduce theft of high-value items. Thieves sometimes circumvent this by cutting the
         merchandise packaging to remove the item. MAS can detect this cutting activity
         due to the vibration induced into the fixture.
     *   Cardboard Fixtures: Many stores use temporary fixtures constructed of cardboard
         or corrugated plastic. Testing confirms that algorithms similar to those effective on
         gondola shelving will also perform well on these temporary fixtures.
     "   Clothing Hangers: Testing has not been performed to characterize clothes hanger
         fixtures typical of apparel stores.  However, it is predicted that the movement of a
         hangar will create a readily identifiable vibration signature.
     *   Merchandise Pushers: When an item is removed from a pusher and the remaining
         merchandise snaps forward, a very characteristic vibration signature is generated
         this is readily detected by MAS from any pusher on an entire gondola unit. This
         means MAS can readily determine a fairly accurate count of dispenses, which is then
         used to define Type 1 and 2 alanns.       Also, a large vibration amplitude typically
         indicates removal of multiple items from a single facing, which can also be used to
         declare a Type 2 alarm. There are two unique advantages when using MAS with
         pushers versus most other merchandising systems: Dispenses can be distinguished
         from placing the merchandise back into the pusher, making the dispense detection
         alarms much more definitive; and dispenses of the last item in a pusher facing
         (constituting stock-out of that facing) creates a vibration signature uniquely
         identifiable relative to other dispenses. This enables MAS to detect this stock-out
         and send a unique alarm message to that effect. In some cases, metal "taps" or other
         devices may be attached to the pusher to make this stock-out dispense even more
         identifiable due to high vibration amplitude, distinctive duration and/or frequency,
         or multiple sharp vibration spikes ("ringing").
                                                14
10547902  .docx

     * Merchandise Dispensers (with clickers):          A number of anti-sweep merchandise
         dispensers require shoppers to turn a knob or take a similar action to dispense each
         product item. These knobs often incorporate a "clicker" that creates a clicking sound
         intended to raise store employee awareness of the event (i.e., an extended clicking
         session might indicate a sweep in progress). The MAS can detect these clicks when
         the dispensers and MAS are mounted on the same gondola assembly. Each click
         emits a readily identifiable vibration signature and the MAS can be calibrated with
         the quantity of clicks equating to a single dispense. From this, Type 1 and 2 Alarm
         events can be declared. In some types of dispensers a facing stock-out event can be
         detected using methods similar to merchandise pushers (a form of which are often
         incorporated in these dispensers).
     * Ambient Vibration Auto-Adiust: Some store environments, such as sales floors in
         multiple-story buildings, may have ambient vibration levels induced into the fixtures
         due to HVAC equipment or other sources.             The MAS can be configured to
         automatically adjust its base detection threshold to normalize out this ambient
         vibration while still enabling the unit to detect events of interest.
     * Alarm Learn Mode: While algorithms are typically defined based on the factors
         previously outlined, an alternative method is to place the MAS into "Learn Mode"
         then perform events that minimally define a Level 1 and a Level 2 Alarm. MAS will
         then auto-set these variables (such as sensitivity threshold and quantity of events
         within an elapsed time period) to detect similar events in the future. The preferred
         method of invoking learn mode and entering relevant information can be performed
         using a smart mobile device (linked to the system Controller or directly to the MAS
         using various wireless technologies), a computer linked to the System controller
         locally or remotely, an infrared controller (similar to a television remote control)
         communicating directly to the MAS device through an infrared portal, or even using
         switches integral to the MAS device.
     *   Tamper Alarm:        Once the MAS is mounted and calibrated, its multi-axis
         accelerometer senses orientation (i.e., which way is down).           An unexpected
         dismounting of the device can be quickly detected by the device and designated a
                                                15
10547902  .docx

         Tamper Event, which would typically create a very aggressive local annunciation
         and the transmission of a Tamper Alarm to the System controller, which can then
         output the appropriate notifications.
Optional Functionality:
     The following related functions are typically implemented at the system and ecosystem
levels (rather at the MAS end device level, though some of these can be implemented
through MAS-level peer interactivity) and may be offered on an optional basis:
     *   Traffic Alarm Modulation:       Integration of the System Controller with the store's
         traffic counting system (which counts people going in and out of the store and often
         calculating how many are in the store at any given time) enables the System
         Controller to make intelligent decisions regarding sending Notifications relative to
         merchandise activity alarms. For example, during a peak shopping time when many
         shoppers are in the store, much more merchandise activity is to be expected and,
         most likely, the store is staffed more heavily than usual.           In this situation,
         merchandise activity resulting in a Type 2 Alarm in some areas of the store (such as
         merchandise least likely to benefit from personal assistance and / or be victimized
         by a sweep) may not result in Notifications to store personnel. At the other extreme,
         during very light traffic periods when store staffing may be lean, it may even be
         desirable to provide Type 1 Alarm notifications in select high margin / high service
         merchandise areas to promote shopper engagement by store staff.
     *   Time Clock Alarm Modulation:          Integration with the store's time clock system
         enables the System Controller to monitor the number of staff clocked in as "on duty"
         and can be used to intelligently filter the Type I and Type 2 alarms that actually
         result in notification to store personnel. Combining Time Clock and Traffic Data
         provides a further level of alarm modulation by considering both conditions prior to
         issuing alarm notifications.
     *   Proximity Multi-Alarm Consolidation Filtering: Some vibration incidents may be
         detected by more than one MAS. For example, a long multi-section gondola shelf
                                                 16
10547902  .docx

         may be outfitted with several MAS - perhaps one for each gondola segment.
         Movement of heavy merchandise could trigger simultaneous alarms in more than
         one MAS. When this occurs among multiple MAS mounted on the same structure
         or otherwise in close proximity, the System Controller or a MAS devices peer-to
         peer collaboration scheme can be configured to consolidate these alarm events into
         a single notification.
     *   Alarm Summing by Multiple MAS Devices: MAS devices mounted on different
         store fixtures in the same vicinity each detecting touches at or below Type I alarm
         levels might collectively be identified as constituting a Type 2 alarm since this
         activity may indicate a sly sweeper removing merchandise from different fixtures to
         avoid detection.
     " Broad Multi-Alarm Auto-Disable: Certain events, such as an earthquake, a subway
         passing nearby, or a heavy forklift on a flexible floor, can trigger alarms on many or
         even all MAS in a store. The System Controller or a MAS devices peer-to-peer
         collaboration scheme can be configured to identify this as a special event that results
         in a special consolidated notification or no notifications.
     "   Video System Integration Functions: Integrating with a store Video Management
         System (VMS) enables the MAS System Controller to notify the VMS of alarm
         incidences.    This can result in the following response behaviors: A camera can
         automatically direct its focus to the location at which the alarm is occurring,
         permitting fewer cameras in the store to more efficiently monitor events of interest;
         The video related to the event can be viewed in real time by a remote person or
         pushed directly to a mobile device carried by personnel in the store, who can then
         assess the situation and determine what actions, if any, should be taken; or a smart
         VMS now directed by MAS to the event of interest may use analytics to detect sweep
         events and certain other events of interest, which can then result in an escalated
         notification or other actions.
     "   Stocking Disable:      A potential disadvantage of the MAS method of sensing
         merchandise movement is the difficulty of differentiating legitimate stocking
                                                17
10547902  .docx

         activity from sweep activity (though this is less of a challenge with merchandise
         pushers, as noted previously). Methods to address this issue include:
               o Store Hours Alarm Filter: During closed hours when a great deal of stocking
                 occurs, the MAS devices and/or the System Controller notifications are
                 automatically disabled;
               o Manual Disable Command:          Using a mobile communication device, a
                 computer, or other device communicating with the system Controller and/or
                 a MAS device, an authorized store team member can temporarily disable
                 alarm Notifications originating from one or more MAS devices or the entire
                 system. This can involve manual entry of information or using the mobile
                 communication device to capture information from a bar code, QR code,
                 NFC tag, or beacon; and
               o Auto-Recognition of Employees:        The presence of one or more store
                 employees in the immediate vicinity of an alarming MAS can automatically
                 disable notifications. Auto-recognition methods include: VMS recognition
                 of the vest or hat color/pattern of team member uniforms; and Beacon or
                 other micro-location methods detecting a device carried (e.g., smart mobility
                 device) or worn (e.g., RFID or beacon/WiFi tag) by employees
     *   Location Awareness:      Optional location sensing (such as beacons or "WiFi Tag"
         methods) enables the MAS to be aware of its location. This information can be used
         for determining the location of the MAS during initial set up, subsequent re-location,
         and alarms when in motion (i.e., when affixed to a merchandise item).
     *   Merchandise Interaction Detection: MAS activity data can also populate a database
         used to analyze shopper merchandise interactions. Depending on the intended use
         of the data, the detection algorithm may be adjusted to be more or less sensitive for
         defining an event of interest. For example, every merchandise touch interaction may
         be reported and, when correlated with Point of Sale (POS) data, can provide a view
         of sale conversion relative to merchandise interaction.
     *   Confirmation Action:       The system can provide data measuring the response
         effectiveness of store personnel to MAS alarm Notifications. This requires a means
                                               18
10547902 I.docx

         of determining that an employee went to the location of the alarm within a reasonable
         amount of time after the Notification. The method may be as simple as pressing a
         button integral or ancillary to the MAS module or similar implementations of
         previously described Manual Disable Command or Auto-Recognition of Employees.
     *   Summon Assistance: The MAS could be attached to the inside of a door or window
         such that a person desiring access or assistance could knock and the MAS would
         trigger the system to summon someone. For example, 3 knocks on the door or
         window could be interpreted by the algorithm as a valid request. This application
         may be helpful in the following instances:
               o Closed Hours Associate Access: Store employees arriving for work when
                 the store is closed often have difficulty getting the attention of someone in
                 the store to let them in, which can be dangerous during dark winter early
                 morning hours. Knocking on the glass triggers MAS and, if the system
                 validates that the store is closed, the store staff is notified.
               o Receiving Door Access: Delivery drivers are often delayed at retail stores
                 due to difficulty raising the attention of an employee to open the receiving
                 door. Simply knocking on the door can trigger a notification summoning
                 assistance from anywhere in the store.
System Level Alarm Processing:
         To better understand system level operation of the invention, refer to Figure 3 for a
view of typical system level integrations and the following discussion explaining the Figure
4 flow chart. It should be understood that the sequence of the various subroutines shown in
this figure can be re-arranged as desired to optimally meet application requirements.
System level alarm processing commences with reception of an alarm (or event) notification
from a MAS module.         Module tamper alarms and location violations (a mobile module
entering an alarm zone) immediately result in an urgent Notification. Stock out detections
(such as removal of the last item on a pusher facing) trigger a Notification and are logged
                                                 19
10547902 I.docx

to a stocking tracking application for further processing. If the system is configured to track
Touches, each received alarm is logged.
         The "Multi-Alarm Filter" subroutine counts each simultaneous alarm occurrence
from multiple MAS devices in a designated group of sensors as a single occurrence. These
consolidated alarm events are then evaluated for possible Type 1 or Type 2 alarm declaration
and Notification as a single event.     This function filters out such as merchandise removal
detected on adjacent fixtures and unusual events such as a fork lift striking a fixture outfitted
with multiple sensors or even an earthquake shaking all sensors in the store.
         The "Stocking Detection" subroutine disables the processing of alarms when
merchandise may be stocked on monitored fixtures.            Methods used to enter this mode
include designated Time of Day (TOD) day parts (such as when the store is closed), a
command from an authorized store employee (such as via a mobile device, network device,
or designated button), or automatic detection of store employee presence by video
recognition, RFID location, beacons, or similar methods.
         "Presence Verification" uses one or more infrared sensors and/or real time video
analytics to confirm that one or more persons are present at the alarm location. For example,
a sensor may be triggered by interactions on either side (that is, either aisle) that the fixture
faces. Presence verification enables the System Controller or MAS devices peer-to-peer
collaboration to determine in which aisle the activity actually occurred and to issue a
Notification for the appropriate aisle - or no Notification at all if the merchandise in the
occupied aisle is not of monitoring interest.
         "Sensor Groups" provide a means for summing activity across multiple adjacent /
nearby fixtures. While the sensor at each fixture may detect a Type I event, collectively
these individual events may be upgraded to Type 2 alarm.
         "Notification Modulation"      avoids the generation      of excessive Notifications
(especially Type 1 alarms) based on various conditions including TOD Day Part, the amount
of shopper traffic in the store (typically detected by entrance / exit sensors), and the amount
of store staff available (typically determined through real time clock data). These factors
may regulate preclude the issuance of some Notifications and / or may define the minimum
                                                20
10547902  .docx

time intervals during which Notifications to a given routing destination (such as to personnel
serving a specific department) will be launched.
         Notifications may route to store personnel via a variety of paths (e.g., overhead
speakers, pagers, smart mobile devices, wireless phones, display screens, etc.) and the
invention can be configured to escalate notifications if store personnel are expected to
respond to these Notifications. Response is determined either by the responding person
pressing a button or taking a similar action at the alarm area or can be determined by
automatic detection of staff entering the area (typically using video recognition, RFID,
beacons, or similar technologies).
Direct Merchandise Attachment:
         The primary application of the invention involves mounting the MAS to a store
fixture and detecting vibrations induced into the fixture by merchandise movement activity.
Another application is to affix the MAS directly to merchandise for the purpose of detecting
when that merchandise is being handled. The following are provided as examples only.
         Art and Statuette Gallery: A typical commercial art / tourist gallery may have
many expensive items on display.        It can be difficult for the staff to closely monitor all of
the items and avoid the theft of display items, especially during busy times in a sizable
gallery, which may have various display rooms. By affixing the MAS to the article or as a
base for the article, a wireless alarm identifying the specific item can transmit as soon as
someone picks up the item, resulting in Notifications much like those described in this
document. For example, the video stream from a video camera trained on that display area
could immediately pop up in a back office, behind a sales counter, or to a mobile device.
This will permit rapid determination of the likely intent of the person with the merchandise
if rapid response to avert a theft is needed or if a more casual shopper engagement approach
is desired.
         If the MAS is equipped with location awareness technology, as noted previously,
then the location of this merchandise as it may be carried through the store/building can also
be included in the notifications to personnel, camera systems, and even mapping displays.
                                                 21
10547902  .docx

Further, MAS can declare an alarm condition based on the merchandise entering certain
locations (such as approaching an exit area).
         Fitness Equipment Assistance: Should a shopper step onto a display tread mill or
other fitness equipment, the resulting MAS trigger can summon sales assistance to the
location, which would increase shopper engagement at the point of interest and likely
increase sales.
         Automobile Sales Lot Theft Deterrent: The MAS may be attached to new or used
autos in a car lot to detect movement of cars, including jacking up of the car in the course
of removal and possible theft of tires (not an infrequent event) - such events then trigger
appropriate Notifications. A means of temporarily disabling the alarm may be provided to
authorize drivers/technicians. This deterrent can also apply to boats in storage and aircraft.
Practical Examples:
         Example I is illustrated in Figure 5A wherein a MAS mounted on a store gondola
(fixture) detects merchandise movement occurring on either side of the fixture (that is, in
both store aisles the fixture faces. In this configuration, Presence Sensors detect if someone
is in front of the fixture when merchandise movement is detected. If a person is in the aisle
on only one side of the fixture, then the notification message to store personnel will specify
only that aisle for the activity alarm location. The filtering decision can occur at the System
Controller (receiving transmissions from all devices) or through peer-to-peer collaboration
with only the resultant alarm going to the System Controller.
         Example 2 is illustrated in Figure 5B wherein Multiple Merchandise Activity
Sensors may be mounted near each other (such as on adjacent store fixtures). This proximity
may utilize one of two types of processing:
Duplicate Alarm Filtering: Detection of the same alarm event by more than one MAS is
reduced to a single alarm notification.
                                                22
10547902  .docx

Alarm Summing: Non-duplicate merchandise activity detected by any one MAS may not
exceed the alarm threshold but combined activity by two or more nearby MAS may
constitute an alarm.
In both processing types, the reduction to a single alarm event may occur by communication
between the MAS devices resulting in the local filtration of the alarm prior to transmission
to the System Controller. In the alternative, the reduction to a single alarm event may occur
by communication of the duplicate alarms to the System Controller which thereby
determines if the activity threshold is met requiring further communication of the alarm
event.
         Example 3 is illustrated in Figure 5C wherein the inclusion of a remote annunciator
provides three key functions for a cluster of MAS devices: 1) the annunciator can be
physically located to optimally provide audio and/or visual alarm annunciation in response
to alarm conditions detected by any MAS in the cluster; 2) the annunciator can perform
filtering and processing of an alarm event by alarm summing or dupulicate alarm
consolidation at cluster level; and 3) the annunciator communicates processed alarms to the
System Controller and/or directly to a compatible Communication Device, thereby
eliminating the need for a System Controller.
         Example 4 is illustrated in Figure 5D wherein a communication device accepts alarm
notifications directly from MAS devices, avoiding the need for a System Controller. MAS
devices can use peer-to-peer communication and processing to perform alarm filtering and
alarm summing, as noted previously.
Precision Targeting of Mobile Content Delivery through Merchandise Interaction
         Figure 6 illustrates a store aisle with shelving on each side and with a proximity
beacon installed to provide Location Based Services (LBS) to Smart Phones located
anywhere in that aisle. By way of example only, the system of Figure 6 utilizes a discrete
proximity beacon and transmits a signal to a smart phone using Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE), though it is possible that the Beacon could be integrated within a MAS module to
further accuracy. Other proximity sensing technologies include, but are not limited to,
WiFi having two or more WiFi access points quipped to triangulate to determine
                                                 23
10547902  .docx

approximate location of a mobile wireless device and LED lighting such that store lighting
using LED technology can be flashed then sensed by a wireless device's camera to
determine approximate location relative to a lighting fixture. LBS beacons are
increasingly adopted by retailers to provide a means by which relevant content is sent to a
shopper's smart phone based on that shopper's location and, in some cases, a known
interest profile.
         A key LBS application offers discounts, information, or other inducements to
shoppers that is relevant to merchandise located in the aisle at which the shopper is currently
located. While prolonged presence in the aisle is a strong indicator of shopper interest, the
diversity of merchandise displayed on both sides and throughout the length of the aisle
impairs the retailer's ability to zero in on the shopper's precise area of interest. For example,
from Figure 6, it can be determined from the beacon that a given shopper is somewhere in
that aisle but it is not known if it is the merchandise on shelving 1OA or lOB that is of
interest, much less at which portion of the aisle the merchandise of interest may be.
         MAS devices mounted to store shelving provides a means of refining the shopper's
locations and, more importantly, the specific merchandise of interest. In this scenario, a
shopper's approximate location is established by the LBS application through beacon and
opt-in app interaction with the shopper's smart phone. Merchandise movement detected by
a MAS device is immediately relayed to the store's LBS application which can use this
information, perhaps in concert with other contextual data, to determine what specific
messaging should be pushed to that shopper.
         A given shopper is not definitively identified as the one responsible for MAS
detected interactions, since there may be additional shoppers in the aisle; with or without an
active LBS session. In some cases, the LBS application may use Received Signal Strength
Indication (RSSI) determine if (or which) LBS-accessible shopper interacted with
merchandise.      In others, shopper profile information (such as historical purchasing data)
enables LBS message delivery to the appropriate shopper.
Mobile Self-Checkout Non-Purchase Interaction Detection
                                                 24
10547902 1.docx

         Many retailers anticipate adopting shopper self-checkout at the point of display
using smart phones. Under this concept, a shopper scans merchandise before placing it in
their shopping cart or bag. This provides a time savings for the shopper, who no longer
needs to wait in line for a cashier or even a self-checkout POS station. It also reduces in
store labor, decreases the amount of in-store POS technology, and frees floor space
previously used by POS stations for merchandising purposes. However, these benefits will
no doubt be somewhat offset by those taking the increased opportunity to steal merchandise.
         The MAS provides a means to effectively detect and deter theft activity in such self
checkout scenarios. Referencing Figure 7, a preferred sequence of this application functions
as follows:
         1.     Shopper removes desired merchandise from shelf / peg hook; MAS sends
                Merchandise Interaction Trigger to MAS Alarm Engine.
         2.     Each merchandise purchase scanned through Shopper's Smart Phone pushes
                a Checkout SKU (or other identifier) from the POS Server to MAS Alarm
                Engine.
         3.     MAS Alarm Engine queries for item location(s) from the Planogram
                Location Server.
         4.     MAS Alarm Engine determines if the SKU Planogram Location(s) is within
                the detection range of one or more open (recent and not cancelled) MAS
                detected merchandise interactions and that the merchandise interaction level
                reasonably correlate with the quantity of items purchased at that location
                (i.e., if only one item were purchased from the location, then we would
                expect the sensor activity to likewise detect activity consistent with the
                removal of a single item):
                a.       IF YES: The open MAS-detected merchandise interaction(s) is/are
                         cancelled;
                b.       IF NO:    A Suspicious Event Notification is generated, the event
                         logged, and the matching merchandise interaction(s) cancelled.
                                              25
10547902  .docx

         5.     Suspicious Event Notifications can be routed to virtually any desired
                destination and can involve multiple actions and/or media; some examples:
                a.      Video Central Monitoring Station:           An email or other rapid
                        messaging protocol notifies a monitoring team, which quickly
                        assesses the several seconds of video surrounding the MAS
                        Interaction Trigger to determine if a theft is in process.
                b.      Smart Video Monitoring System: The Trigger causes the appropriate
                        video segment (incident location and time frame) to be pushed to a
                        monitoring station, portable smart device, or other destination for
                        immediate review. For example, a Loss Prevention professional in
                        the store could receive the video on his/her mobile device; assess the
                        situation; identify the suspect; and quickly take remedial action.
                c.      Audio or Text Notifications: A message identifying the location of
                        the suspicious event can be routed to wireless phones, mobile smart
                        devices, two-way radios, and other communication devices.
                d.      Exit Inspection:      Either based on a single (probably manually
                        confirmed) suspicious event but more likely due to several suspicious
                        events (suggesting a "suspicious shopper") possibly combined with
                        other contextual information (such as the loyalty status of the
                        shopper), a notification trigger may be routed to a person or system
                        near the exit of the store that would cause an exit inspection of the
                        shopping cart or some other action to confirm that all items in the cart
                        were checked out.       As an example of a system, an approaching
                        shopper (detected by their mobile device interacting with proximity
                        detection method) may be signaled by a green light (to continue to
                        exit) or a red light indicating they will need to submit to inspection.
         The various functions ascribed to each component in the above sequence could be
allocated differently; for example, the POS server database could already include SKU
location information and provide it directly to the MAS Alarm Engine with each SKU
transaction.
                                                26
10547902  .docx

Public View Monitor (PVM) Integration
         A typical PVM integrates a camera, infrared presence sensor, audio annunciator,
alert light, and video display in a single package suitable for mounting in or above an aisle.
         When a person is detected by the presence sensor, the audio annunciator activates
(typically a "chime"), the alert light illuminates, and the camera scene observed by the
camera (including the detected person) is displayed. This is a proven theft deterrent since
the prospective thief assumes he/she is being recorded (though that is actually rarely the
case).
         A serious deficiency to this scenario is caused by the audio annunciator activating
for every passing or browsing person, creating a palpable annoyance factor to shoppers and
store personnel alike; this high level of annunciation activity also tends to diminish the
deterrence impact of the PVM since it no longer appears targeted in any way.
         Integrating the PVM with a MAS mounted on the store fixture holding the
merchandise of concern drastically reduces audio annunciation activations to only those
interactions in which someone actually moves any of the displayed merchandise. This is
accomplished by the mounted MAS detecting merchandise movement exceeding the
defined threshold level then sending a trigger to the PVM causing the PVM to activate.
MAS activity threshold setting is dependent on the type of merchandise monitored and the
way it is displayed. For example, MAS threshold would typically be set to trigger for all
interactions of merchandise frequently shoplifted. Conversely, the MAS trigger threshold
may be set for prolonged activity at merchandise affixed to locking peg hooks (at which a
thief may attempt to cut packaging) or at merchandise at which sweeps (removal of many
items during a short time) are a concern.
         One embodiment of MAS provides detection of merchandise interaction activity to
alert store employees of possible shopper engagement opportunities that could result in
building sales through up-sell/cross-sell efforts. When monitoring merchandise pushers, a
single MAS detects each merchandise dispense and differentiates this from a stocking event.
Additionally, when the last item in a facing pusher dispenses, MAS detects this and can
provide notification of the stock-out incident.
                                               27
10547902  .docx

         In another embodiment, MAS provides detection of suspicious merchandise
interaction activity to increase store staff awareness that can help reduce actual theft from
the store (shrink).
         In still another embodiment, MAS further provides collection of merchandise
interaction activity data for use in merchandising study analytics used typically for
evaluating effectiveness of new displays, positioning, and packaging.
         In yet another embodiment, MAS reduces wait time of customers and delivery
persons by summoning assistance to locked doors and counter windows such that the
knocking on a door or window triggers staff notifications.
         In still a further embodiment, MAS provides a system capable of filtering duplicate
alarm events locally at the sensor level or at the system controller level.
         In another embodiment, MAS provides a system capable of summing alarm events
to detect if the combination of non-duplicate alarms meet a preset threshold requiring further
transmission to a communication device wherein summing may occur locally at the sensor
level or at the System Controller level.
         In still another embodiment, MAS provides a system capable of monitoring a store
microenvironment, such as an aisle, using an array of beacons and sensors located in the
environment to identify the presence of customers in a given aisle and subsequent customer
interaction with specific merchandise resulting in a predetermined action. In a preferred
embodiment, the sensing of a customer over a prolonged period of time may result in the
notification of a sales associate that a customer needs assistance or in the alternative is
possible suspicious behavior.        In another preferred embodiment, the detection of
merchandise movement by the MAS system may result in opt-in shoppers receiving highly
relevant coupons and/or product information directly to their smart phone while browsing
the product.
         In yet a further embodiment, MAS provides a means for retailers to detect possible
in-process theft incidents in a smart phone self-checkout environment.
                                               28
10547902  .docx

         In still another embodiment, MAS            greatly increases the shrink deterrence
effectiveness of Public View Monitors (PVM's) by limiting activation to only those times
in which someone actually interacts with the merchandise of concern.
         It will be appreciated that details of the foregoing embodiments, given for purposes
of illustration, are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. Although
several embodiments of this invention have been described in detail above, those skilled in
the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary
embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this
invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope
of this invention, which is further defined in the converted utility application and appended
claims. Further, it is recognized that many embodiments may be conceived that do not
achieve all the advantages of some embodiments, particularly preferred embodiments, yet
the absence of a particular advantage shall not be construed to necessarily mean that such
an embodiment is outside the scope of the present invention.
         The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at
least in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include
the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each
statement can also be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be
interpreted in similar manner.
         In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that
such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form
part of the common general knowledge in the art.
                                                 29
10547902  .docx

                                             CLAIMS
         1.       A system for providing real-time location based services, the system
comprising:
         a) at least one proximity detection method for identifying a mobile device and its
associated location;
         b) at least a first sensor capable of detecting a direct or indirect force that is applied
to an object which results in movement of that object from a state of equilibrium;
         c) a microcontroller having an application capable of processing data acquired by
a) and b); and
         d) a wired or wireless means of communication capable of communicating the
movement of the object detected by the first sensor to the microcontroller of c).
         2.       The system of claim 1 wherein an indirect force is detected when the at
least first sensor is associated with a fixture.
         3.       The system of claim 2 wherein the fixture is in contact with the object.
         4.       The system of claim 1 wherein a direct force is detected when the at least
first sensor is associated with an object.
         5.       The system of claim 1 wherein the real-time location based services are
configured for use in a setting wherein the detection and tracking of object movement is
desired.
         6.       The system of claim 5 wherein the setting is a retail setting.
         7.       The system of claim 1 wherein the at least first sensor further comprises a
single or multi-axis accelerometer.
         8.       The system of claim I wherein the means of communication is a
transceiver.
                                                 30
10547902 1.docx

         9.      The system of claim 1 wherein the means of communication is a
transmitter.
         10.     The system of claim 1 wherein the microcontroller is capable of
determining a precise location of a mobile device based on data acquired from a) and b).
         11.     The system of claim 10 wherein the closest identified mobile device to the
activated sensor is recognized by the microcontroller which results in the communication
of customized information to the mobile device.
         12.     The system of claim 1 wherein the microcontroller is capable of
determining the object or a category of objects by providing a shelf planogram over the
location of the at least first sensor.
         13.     A method of detecting potential theft related activity at a point of display in
a shopper self-checkout environment using a mobile device, the system comprising:
         a) providing at least one proximity detection method for identifying a mobile
device and its associated location;
         b) providing at least a first sensor capable of detecting a direct or indirect force that
is applied to an object which results in movement of that object from a state of
equilibrium;
         c) providing a microcontroller having an application capable of processing data
acquired by a) and b) in combination with purchase activity from the mobile device;
         d) providing a wired or wireless means of communication capable of
communicating the movement detected by the at least first sensor to the microcontroller of
c) for processing; and
         e) triggering a suspicious event declaration in when the movement detected in c)
does not match the purchase data of the mobile device.
         14.     The method of claim 13 wherein an indirect force is detected when the at
least first sensor is associated with a fixture.
         15.     The method of claim 14 wherein the fixture is in contact with the object.
                                                 31
10547902 1.docx

         16.     The method of claim 13 wherein a direct force is detected when the at least
first sensor is associated with an object.
         17.     The method of claim 13 wherein the real-time location based services are
configured for use in a setting wherein the detection and tracking of object movement is
desired.
         18.     The method of claim 17 wherein the setting is a retail setting.
         19.     The method of claim 13 wherein the at least first sensor further comprises a
single or multi-axis accelerometer.
         20.     The method of claim 13 wherein the means of communication is a
transceiver.
         21.     The method of claim 13 wherein the means of communication is a
transmitter.
         22.     The method of claim 13 wherein the microcontroller is capable of
determining a precise location of a mobile device based on data acquired from a) and b).
         23.     The method of claim 22 wherein the closest identified mobile device to the
activated sensor is recognized by the microcontroller which results in the communication
of customized information to the mobile device.
         24.     The method of claim 13 wherein the microcontroller is capable of
determining a category of object by providing a shelf planogram over the location of the at
least first sensor.
         25.     The method of claim I further comprising a public view monitor wherein
the detection of a force by the at least first sensor results in the activation of the public
view monitor in the line of sight of the location where the force was detected.
                                                32
10547902 I.docx

         26.    The method of claim 13 further providing a public view monitor wherein
the detection of a force by the at least first sensor results in the activation of the public
view monitor in the line of sight of the location where the force was detected.
                                                33
10547902 I.docx

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
