  ABSTRACT
         The present invention provides fluorine substituted tricyclic nucleosides and oligomeric
  compounds prepared therefrom. Incorporation of one or more of the tricyclic nucleosides into an
  oligomeric compound enhances one or more properties of the oligomeric compound. Such
5 oligomeric compounds can also be included in double stranded compositions.

                TRICYCLIC NUCLEOSIDES AND OLIGOMERIC COMPOUNDS
                                      PREPARED THEREFROM
 5 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to tricyclic nucleosides described by the general Formula I
   and oligomeric compounds prepared therefrom.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Antisense technology is an effective means for reducing the expression of specific gene products
 0 and can therefore be useful in therapeutic, diagnostic, and research applications. Generally, the
   principle behind antisense technology is that an antisense compound (a sequence of
   oligonucleotides or analogues thereof) hybridizes to a target nucleic acid and modulates gene
   expression activities or function, such as transcription and/or translation. Regardless of the
   specific mechanism, its sequence-specificity makes antisense compounds attractive as tools for
 5 target validation and gene functionalization, as well as therapeutics to selectively modulate the
   expression of genes involved in the pathogenesis of diseases.
   Chemically modified nucleosides are routinely incorporated into antisense compounds to en
   hance its properties, such as nuclease resistance, pharmacokinetics or affinity for a target RNA.
   Chemical modifications have improved the potency and efficacy of antisense compounds, im
 0 proving their potential for oral delivery or subcutaneous administration, or decreasing their
   potential for side effects. Chemical modifications increasing potency of antisense compounds
   allow administration of lower doses, which reduces the potential for toxicity. Modifications
   increasing the resistance to degradation result in slower clearance from the body, allowing for
   less frequent dosing.
25 The synthesis of tricyclic nucleosides (Steffens et al., Helvetica Chimica Acta, 1997, 80, 2426
   2439) and their incorporation into oligomeric compounds has been reported in the literature
   (Steffens et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1997, 119, 11548-11549; Steffens et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc.,
   1999, 121, 3249-3255; Renneberg et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2002, 124, 5993-6002; Scheidegger
   et al., Chem. Eur. J., 2006, 12, 8014-8023). Fully modified tricyclic oligonucleotides were
30 shown to be more stable against nucleolytic degradation in fetal calf serum compared to unmodi
   fied oligodeoxynucleotides and to produce biological antisense effects in cellular assays, such as
   splice restoration of mutant P-globin (Renneberg et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 2002, 30, 275 1
   2757); or exon skipping in cyclophilin A (Ittig et al., Nucleic Acids Research, 2004, 32, 346
   353).
                                                      -1-

   BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            Provided herein are tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I and oligomeric compounds
   prepared therefrom. More particularly, tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I are useful for
   incorporation at one or more positions of an oligomeric compound. In certain embodiments, the
 5 oligomeric compounds provided herein are characterized by one or more enhanced properties
   such as nuclease stability, cell permeability, bioavailability or toxicity. In certain embodiments,
   the oligomeric compounds as provided herein hybridize to a portion of a target RNA resulting in
   loss of normal function of the target RNA. The oligomeric compounds provided herein are also
   useful as primers and probes in diagnostic applications. In certain embodiments, oligomers
 0 comprising tricyclic nucleosides provided herein show significantly improved -compared to
   unmodified DNA or RNA oligomers- cellar uptake independent of transfection reagents such as
   liposomes.
   The variables are defined individually in further detail herein. It is to be understood that the
   tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I and the oligomeric compounds provided herein include
 5 all combinations of the embodiments disclosed and variables defined herein.
   According to a first aspect of the invention, a tricyclic nucleoside is provided that is decribed by
   general Formula I:
                              q1 T1 H
                         q     -1 T
                        q 3q   -               Bx
                             q4         - 12
                                  q     Z            (I) wherein:
       -   Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety;
20     -   one of T' and T 2 is hydroxyl (-OH) or a protected hydroxyl and the other of T, and T2 is a
           phosphate or a reactive phosphorus group;
       -   at least one of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z2 is F,
       -   the other ones of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z 2 are, independently, selected from H, F, Cl,
       -   one of zi and z 2 is H or F and the other of z' and z2 is H, -OH, Cl, OCH 3 , OCF 3 ,
25         OCH 2CH 3 , OCH 2CF 3 , OCH 2-CH=CH 2, O(CH 2) 2-OCH 3 , O(CH 2) 2-O(CH 2) 2-N(CH 3) 2 ,
           OCH 2C(=0)-N(H)CH 3 , OCH 2 C(=O)-N(H)-(CH 2) 2-N(CH 3) 2 or OCH 2 -N(H)-C(=NH)NH 2.
   In certain embodiments, Bx is a pyrimidine, substituted pyrimidine, purine or substituted purine.
   According to one embodiment, Bx is selected from uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine,
   adenine and guanine. In one embodiment, Bx is an aromatic heterocyclic moiety capable of
30 forming base pairs when incorporated into DNA or RNA oligomers in lieu of the bases uracil,
   thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine and guanine.
                                                         -2-

   In certain embodiments, T' is hydroxyl or protected hydroxyl, and T 2 is a reactive phosphorus
   group selected from an H-phosphonate or a phosphoramidite. In certain embodiments, T' is a
   triphosphate group and T2 is OH. In certain embodiments, T' is 4,4'-dimethoxytrityl and T2 is
   diisopropylcyanoethoxy phosphoramidite. In certain embodiments, T' is a controlled pore glass
 5 surface. According to a preferred alternative of this embodiment, T' is a long chain alkylamine
   controlled pore glass surface, to which a 3'-0-succinylated nucleoside is linked via an amide
   function.
   In certain embodiments, q and q2 are H, one of q3 , q4 and q5 is F and the other ones of q3 , q4 and
   q 5 are H. In certain embodiments, q 1, q 2, z1 and z2234are H, one of q3 , q4 and q55 is F and the other
 0 ones of q3 , q4 and q5 are H.
   In certain embodiments, qi, q2,      q3, q4  and qs are H, one of zi and z2 is F and the other one of z'
   and z 2 is H.
   In certain embodiments, q1 and q2 are H, one of q3 , q4 and q5 is F, one of z1 and z2 is F, and the
   other ones of q3 , q4 , q5, z and z2 are H.
 5 In certain embodiments, q, q2 , q4 and q5 are H, one or two of q3 , z' and z2 is F, and the other
   ones of q3 ,z1 and z2 are H.
   According to one embodiment, one of zI and z 2 is F, OCH 3 or O(CH 2) 2-OCH 3 . According to one
   embodiment, one of zi and z 2 is F. According to one embodiment, one of z' and z 2 is F and the
   other one is H. According to one embodiment, zi and          Z2 are each H.
 0 According to one embodiment, q1 and q2 together are H. According to one embodiment, one of
   q1 and q2 is F and the other is H.
   Also provided herein are nucleoside precursor compounds as exemplified by compound 11 of
   Example 1, in particular:
                            ODMT
                      F                Bx
                               0
                               p
                     N(iPr)2      OCH 2 CH 2 CN
               a.
                          DMTO      H
                          F                  Bx
                                    O  F
               b.    NC          O-   N(iPr)2
25
                                                          -3-

                     DMTO    H
                      F               Bx
                             O    F
              c. NC        OI1P N(iPr)2
                     DMTO    H
                                      Bx
                             O    F
                           O    N(iPr)2
           d.     NC
                     DMTO
                          M           Bx
                              OF
                  NC,_     O P*N(iPr)2
           e.
  wherein Bx is selected from uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine and guanine.
5 According to certain embodiments, the tricyclic nucleoside is selected from the group of
                       OH
                 F               Bx
                         OH
                   HO H
                    F'           Bx
                         OHF
           g.
                   HO    H
                 F 'Bx
           h.            0HF
                 HO    H
                              Bx
                       OHF
                                                 -4-

                     HO   H
                                    Bx
                          OHF
               J
   wherein Bx is selected from uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine and guanine.
   According to a second aspect of the invention, an oligomeric compound is provided comprising
 5 at least one tricyclic nucleoside having Formula II:
                              1   3
                           q T
                       q3    '                 Bx
                           q4       i5$ 1
                                q       z               (II) wherein independently for each tricyclic
            nucleoside of Formula II:
       -   Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety;
       -   one of T3 and T4 is an intemucleoside linking group attaching the tricyclic nucleoside of
 0         Formula II to the oligomeric compound and the other of T3 and T4 is hydroxyl, a protected
           hydroxyl, a 5' or 3' terminal group or an internucleoside linking group attaching the
           tricyclic nucleoside to the oligomeric compound;
       -   at least one of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z2 is F,
       -   the other ones of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z 2 are, independently, selected from H, F, Cl,
 5     -   one of zi and z 2 is H or F and the other of z' and z2 is H, -OH, Cl, OCH 3 , OCF 3,
           OCH 2CH 3 , OCH 2CF 3 , OCH 2-CH=CH 2, O(CH 2)2-OCH 3 , O(CH 2)2-O(CH 2)2-N(CH 3)2 ,
           OCH 2C(=0)-N(H)CH 3 , OCH 2 C(=O)-N(H)-(CH 2)2-N(CH 3)2 or OCH 2 -N(H)-C(=NH)NH 2 ;
   and wherein said oligomeric compound comprises from 8 to 40 monomeric subunits.
   In certain embodiments of this aspect of the invention, one of zi and z2 is F for each tricyclic
20 nucleoside of Formula II. In certain embodiments of this aspect of the invention, zi and z 2 are
   each H for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II.
   In certain embodiments of this aspect of the invention, q1 and q2 are each H for each tricyclic
   nucleoside of Formula II.
   In certain embodiments of this aspect of the invention, one of q1 and q2 is F and the other one is
25 H for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II.
                                                         -5-

   In certain embodiments of this aspect of the invention, Bx is a pyrimidine, substituted
   pyrimidine, purine or substituted purine. According to one embodiment, Bx is selected from
   uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine and guanine. According to one
   embodiment, Bx is an aromatic heterocyclic moiety capable of forming base pairs when
 5 incorporated into DNA or RNA oligomers in lieu of the bases uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5
   methylcytosine, adenine and guanine.
   In certain embodiments, each intemucleoside linking group is, independently, a phosphodiester
   internucleoside linking group or a phosphorothioate intemucleoside linking group. In certain
   embodiments, essentially each intemucleoside linking group is a phosphorothioate
 0 internucleoside linking group.
   According to one embodiment, the oligomeric compound of the invention comprises a first
   region having at least two contiguous tricyclic nucleosides having Formula II. According to one
   embodiment, the oligomeric compound of the invention comprises a first region having at least
   two contiguous tricyclic nucleosides having Formula II and a second region having at least two
 5 contiguous monomeric subunits wherein each monomeric subunit in the second region is a
   modified nucleoside different from the tricyclic nucleosides of Formula II of said first region.
   According to another alternative of this embodiment, the oligomeric compound comprises a third
   region located between said first and second regions wherein each monomer subunit in the third
   region is independently, a nucleoside or a modified nucleoside that is different from each
 0 tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II of the first region and each monomer subunit the second
   region.
   According to one embodiment, the oligomeric compound of the invention comprises a gapped
   oligomeric compound having an internal region of from 6 to 14 contiguous monomer subunits
   flanked on each side by an external region of from 1 to 5 contiguous monomer subunits wherein
25 each monomer subunit in each external region is a tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II and each
   monomer subunit in the internal region is, independently, a nucleoside or modified nucleoside.
   In certain embodiments, said internal region comprises from about 8 to about 14 contiguous p-D
   2'-deoxyribonucleosides. According to one embodiment, said internal region comprises from
   about 9 to about 12 contiguous p-D-2'-deoxyribonucleosides.
30 In certain embodiments, q3 is F for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II. According to one
   embodiment, q4 and q5 is H and the other of q4 and q5 is F for each tricyclic nucleoside of
   Formula II.
                                                     -6-

   In certain embodiments, the oligomeric compound of the invention comprises one or several
   nucleotide blocks selected from the group consisting of
                           T3                             T3
                     FK      i         Thy          FK               5-mCyt
              a.              T                or            T
                         T                              T3
                     F                  Thy          F                5-mCyt
                                    F                          4   F
              b.               T                or            T
                         T3    H                        T3    H
                                   0                             0
                     F                  Thy          F                5-mCyt
 5            c.               T    F           or                 F
                       T    H                      T3   H
                     d.        0            o    go.
                                      Thy                        5-mCyt
                  d.             F          or
                         T      F                     T    F
              e.                            or
                     wherein T3 and T4 have the meanings outlined above.
   According to yet another aspect of the invention, a method for solid-phase synthesis of an
[0 oligonucleotide is provided, comprising the use of a trycyclic nucleoside according to the first
   aspect of the invention.
   In certain embodiments, gapped oligomeric compounds are provided comprising an internal
   region of from 6 to 14 contiguous monomer subunits flanked on each side by an external region
   of from 1 to 5 contiguous monomer subunits wherein each monomer subunit in each external
[5 region is a tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II and each monomer subunit in the internal region is,
   independently, a nucleoside or modified nucleoside. In certain embodiments, the internal region
   comprises from about 8 to about 14 contiguous             p-D-2'-deoxyribonucleosides. In certain
                                                            -7-

   embodiments, the internal region comprises from about 9 to about 12 contiguous p-D-2'
   deoxyribonucleosides.
   In certain embodiments, methods of inhibiting gene expression are provided comprising
   contacting a cell with an oligomeric compound comprising a 5' modified nucleoside as provided
 5 herein or a double stranded composition comprising at least one oligomeric compound
   comprising a 5' modified nucleoside as provided herein wherein said oligomeric compound
   comprises from about 8 to about 40 monomeric subunits and is complementary to a target RNA.
   In certain embodiments, the cell is in an animal. In certain embodiments, the cell is in a human.
   In certain embodiments, the target RNA is selected from mRNA, pre-mRNA and micro RNA.
 0 In certain embodiments, the target RNA is mRNA. In certain embodiments, the target RNA is
   human mRNA. In certain embodiments, the target RNA is cleaved thereby inhibiting its
   function. In certain embodiments, the methods further comprise detecting the levels of target
   RNA.
   In certain embodiments, in vitro methods of inhibiting gene expression are provided comprising
 5 contacting one or more cells or a tissue with an oligomeric compound or double stranded
   composition as provided herein.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds or a double stranded composition as provided
   herein are used for use in an in vivo method of inhibiting gene expression said method
   comprising contacting one or more cells, a tissue or an animal with one of the oligomeric
 0 compounds or a double stranded composition as provided herein.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds and double stranded compositions as provided
   herein are used in medical therapy.
   In certain embodiments, for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II, the placement of the
   substituent fluorine at one of the substituent positions qi,   q2, q3, q4, q5, ZI and z2 enhances
25 biodistribution, cellular uptake or delivery of oligomers. In certain embodiments, for each
   tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II, the placement of the substituent group F at one of the
   substituent positions qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zi or z2 enhances one or more properties of the oligomeric
   compound such as for example, and without limitation, stability, nuclease resistance, binding
   affinity, specificity, absorption, cellular distribution, cellular uptake, charge, pharmacodynamics
30 and pharmacokinetics. In certain embodiments, for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II, it is
   expected that the placement of F at one of the substituent positions qi, q2, q3, q4, q5,    Zi or Z2 will
   enhance the binding affinity.
                                                        -8-

   In certain embodiments, for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II, it is expected that the
   placement of F at q3 will enhance one or more properties of the oligomeric compound such as for
   example, and without limitation, stability, nuclease resistance, binding affinity, specificity,
   absorption, cellular distribution, cellular uptake, charge, pharmacodynamics and
 5 pharmacokinetics. In certain embodiments, for each tricyclic nucleoside of Formula II, it is
   expected that the placement of F at q3 will enhance the binding affinity.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Provided herein are novel tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I and oligomeric
   compounds prepared therefrom. The tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I are useful for
 0 enhancing one or more properties of the oligomeric compounds they are incorporated into such
   as but not limited to nuclease resistance. In certain embodiments, the oligomeric compounds
   provided herein hybridize to a portion of a target RNA resulting in loss of normal function of the
   target RNA. In certain embodiments, tricyclic nucleosides having Formula I are provided that
   can be incorporated into antisense oligomeric compounds to reduce target RNA, such as
 5 messenger RNA, in vitro and in vivo. In one aspect the reduction or loss of function of target
   RNA is useful for inhibition of gene expression via numerous pathways. Such pathways include
   for example the steric blocking of transcription and/or translation of mRNA and cleavage of
   mRNA via single or double stranded oligomeric compounds. The oligomeric compounds
   provided herein are also expected to be useful as primers and probes in diagnostic applications.
 0 In certain embodiments, double stranded compositions are provided wherein each double
   stranded composition comprises:
      -   a first oligomeric compound and a second oligomeric compound wherein the first
          oligomeric compound is complementary to the second oligomeric compound and the
          second oligomeric compound is complementary to a nucleic acid target;
25    -    at least one of the first and second oligomeric compounds comprises at least one tricyclic
          nucleoside of Formula II; and
      -    wherein said compositions optionally comprise one or more terminal groups.
   As used herein, the term "nucleobase" refers to unmodified or naturally occurring nucleobases
   which include, but are not limited to, the purine bases adenine (A) and guanine (G), and the
30 pyrimidine bases thymine (T), cytosine (C) and uracil (U). As used herein, the term "heterocyclic
   base moiety" refers to unmodified or naturally occurring nucleobases as well as modified or non
   naturally occurring nucleobases and synthetic mimetics thereof (such as for example
   phenoxazines). In one embodiment, a heterocyclic base moiety is any heterocyclic system that
                                                     -9-

   contains one or more atoms or groups of atoms capable of hydrogen bonding to a heterocyclic
   base of a nucleic acid.
   In certain embodiments, heterocyclic base moieties include without limitation modified
   nucleobases such as 5-methylcytosine (5-mCyt), 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine, xanthine,
 5 hypoxanthine, 2-aminoadenine, 6-methyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine, 2
   propyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine, 2-thiouracil, 2-thiothymine and 2
   thiocytosine, 5-halouracil and cytosine, 5-propynyl (-C=C-CH3) uracil and cytosine and other
   alkynyl derivatives of pyrimidine bases, 6-azo uracil, cytosine and thymine, 5-uracil
   (pseudouracil), 4-thiouracil, 8-halo, 8-amino, 8-thiol, 8-thioalkyl, 8-hydroxyl and other 8
 0 substituted adenines and guanines, 5-halo particularly 5-bromo, 5-trifluoromethyl and other 5
   substituted uracils and cytosines, 7-methylguanine and 7-methyladenine, 2-F-adenine, 2-amino
   adenine, 8-azaguanine and 8-azaadenine, 7-deazaguanine and 7-deazaadenine, 3-deazaguanine
   and 3-deazaadenine, universal bases, hydrophobic bases, promiscuous bases, size-expanded
   bases, and fluorinated bases as defined herein.
 5 In certain embodiments, heterocyclic base moieties include without limitation tricyclic
   pyrimidines such as 1,3-diazaphenoxazine-2-one, 1,3-diazaphenothiazine-2-one and 9-(2
   aminoethoxy)-1,3-diazaphenoxazine-2-one (G-clamp). Heterocyclic base moieties also include
   those in which the purine or pyrimidine base is replaced with other heterocycles, for example 7
   deaza-adenine, 7-deazaguanosine, 2-aminopyridine and 2-pyridone. Further heterocyclic base
 0 moieties include without limitation those known to the art skilled (see for example: United States
   Patent No. 3,687,808; Swayze et al., The Medicinal Chemistry of Oligonucleotides in Antisense
   a Drug Technology, Chapter 6, pages 143-182, Crooke, S.T., ed., 2008); The Concise
   Encyclopedia OfPolymer Science And Engineering,Kroschwitz, J.I., Ed., John Wiley & Sons,
   1990, 858-859; Englisch et al., Angewandte Chemie, International Edition, 1991, 30, 613;
25 Sanghvi, Y.S., Chapter 15, Antisense Research and Applications, Crooke, S.T. and Lebleu, B.,
   Eds., CRC Press, 1993, 273-302.
   As used herein, the term "nucleoside" refers to a nucleobase-sugar combination. The two most
   common classes of such nucleobases are purines and pyrimidines.
   As used herein, the term nucleotide refers to a nucleoside further comprising a modified or
30 unmodified phosphate internucleoside linking group or a non-phosphate internucleoside linking
   group. For nucleotides that include a pentofuranosyl sugar, the internucleoside linking group
   can be linked to either the 2', 3' or 5' hydroxyl moiety of the sugar. The phosphate and or a non
   phosphate internucleoside linking groups are routinely used to covalently link adjacent
   nucleosides to one another to form a linear polymeric compound.
                                                     -10-

   The term "nucleotide mimetic" as used herein is meant to include monomers that incorporate
   into oligomeric compounds with sugar and linkage surrogate groups, such as for example peptide
   nucleic acids (PNA) or morpholinos (linked by -N(H)-C(=O)-O-).          In general, the heterocyclic
   base at each position is maintained for hybridization to a nucleic acid target but the sugar and
 5 linkage is replaced with surrogate groups that are expected to function similar to native groups
   but have one or more enhanced properties.
   As used herein the term "nucleoside mimetic" is intended to include those structures used to
   replace the sugar and the base at one or more positions of an oligomeric compound. Examples
   of nucleoside mimetics include without limitation nucleosides wherein the heterocyclic base
 0 moiety is replaced with a phenoxazine moiety (for example the 9-(2-aminoethoxy)-1,3
   diazaphenoxazine-2-one group, also referred to as a G-clamp which forms four hydrogen bonds
   when hybridized with a guanosine base) and further replacement of the sugar moiety with a
   group such as for example a morpholino, a cyclohexenyl or a bicyclo[3.1.0]hexyl.
   As used herein the term "modified nucleoside" is meant to include all manner of modified
 5 nucleosides that can be incorporated into an oligomeric compound using oligomer synthesis.
   The term is intended to include modifications made to a nucleoside such as modified
   stereochemical configurations, one or more substitutions, and deletion of groups as opposed to
   the use of surrogate groups which are described elsewhere herein. The term includes
   nucleosides having a furanose sugar (or 4'-S analog) portion and can include a heterocyclic base
 0 or can be an abasic nucleoside. One group of representative modified nucleosides includes
   without limitation, substituted nucleosides (such as 2', 5', and/or 4' substituted nucleosides) 4'-S
   modified nucleosides, (such as 4'-S-ribonucleosides, 4'-S-2'-deoxyribonucleosides and 4'-S-2'
   substituted ribonucleosides), bicyclic modified nucleosides (such as for example, bicyclic
   nucleosides wherein the sugar moiety has a 2'-O-CHRa-4' bridging group, wherein Ra is H, alkyl
25 or substituted alkyl) and base modified nucleosides. The sugar can be modified with more than
   one of these modifications listed such as for example a bicyclic modified nucleoside further
   including a 5'-substitution or a 5' or 4' substituted nucleoside further including a 2' substituent.
   The term modified nucleoside also includes combinations of these modifications such as base
   and sugar modified nucleosides. These modifications are meant to be illustrative and not
30 exhaustive as other modifications are known in the art and are also envisioned as possible
   modifications for the modified nucleosides described herein.
   As used herein the term "monomer subunit" is meant to include all manner of monomer units
   that are amenable to oligomer synthesis with one preferred list including monomer subunits such
   as p-D-ribonucleosides, j-D-2'-deoxyribnucleosides, modified nucleosides, including substituted
35 nucleosides (such as 2', 5' and bis substituted nucleosides), 4'-S-modified nucleosides, (such as
                                                      -11-

   4'-S-ribonucleosides, 4'-S-2'-deoxyribonucleosides and 4'-S-2'-substituted ribonucleosides),
   bicyclic modified nucleosides (such as bicyclic nucleosides wherein the sugar moiety has a 2'-0
   CHRa-4' bridging group, wherein Ra is H, alkyl or substituted alkyl), other modified nucleosides,
   nucleoside mimetics, nucleosides having sugar surrogates and the tricyclic nucleosides as
 5 provided herein.
   Many other monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic ring systems are known in the art and are suitable
   as sugar surrogates that can be used to modify nucleosides for incorporation into oligomeric
   compounds as provided herein (see for example review article: Leumann, Christian J. Bioorg. &
   Med. Chem., 2002, 10, 841-854). Such ring systems can undergo various additional
 0 substitutions to further enhance their activity.
   As used herein the term "reactive phosphorus" is meant to include groups that are covalently
   linked to a monomer subunit that can be further attached to an oligomeric compound that are
   useful for forming intemucleoside linkages including for example phosphodiester and
   phosphorothioate intemucleoside linkages. Such reactive phosphorus groups are known in the
 5 art and contain phosphorus atoms in P111 or Pv valence state including, but not limited to,
   phosphoramidite, H-phosphonate, phosphate triesters and phosphorus containing chiral
   auxiliaries. In certain embodiments, reactive phosphorus groups are selected from diisopropyl
   cyanoethoxy phosphoramidite (-O*-P[N[(CH(CH3)2]2]0(CH           2) 2CN) and H-phosphonate (-0*
   P(=0)(H)OH), wherein the 0* is provided from the Markush group for the monomer. A
 0 preferred synthetic solid phase synthesis utilizes phosphoramidites (P111 chemistry) as reactive
   phosphites. The intermediate phosphite compounds are subsequently oxidized to the phosphate
   or thiophosphate (PV chemistry) using known methods to yield, phosphodiester or
   phosphorothioate intemucleoside linkages. Additional reactive phosphates and phosphites are
   disclosed in Tetrahedron Report Number 309 (Beaucage and Iyer, Tetrahedron, 1992, 48, 2223
25 2311).
   As used herein, "oligonucleotide" refers to a compound comprising a plurality of linked
   nucleosides. In certain embodiments, one or more of the plurality of nucleosides is modified. In
   certain embodiments, an oligonucleotide comprises one or more ribonucleosides (RNA) and/or
   deoxyribonucleosides (DNA).
30 The term "oligonucleoside" refers to a sequence of nucleosides that are joined by internucleoside
   linkages that do not have phosphorus atoms. Internucleoside linkages of this type include short
   chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, mixed heteroatom alkyl, mixed heteroatom cycloalkyl, one or more short
   chain heteroatomic and one or more short chain heterocyclic. These intemucleoside linkages
   include without limitation, siloxane, sulfide, sulfoxide, sulfone, acetyl, formacetyl,
35 thioformacetyl, methylene formacetyl, thioformacetyl, alkeneyl, sulfamate, methyleneimino,
                                                    -12-

   methylenehydrazino, sulfonate, sulfonamide, amide and others having mixed N, 0, S and CH 2
   component parts.
   As used herein, the term "oligomeric compound" refers to a contiguous sequence of linked
   monomer subunits. Each linked monomer subunit normally includes a heterocyclic base moiety
 5 but monomer subunits also includes those without a heterocyclic base moiety such as abasic
   monomer subunits. At least some and generally most if not essentially all of the heterocyclic
   bases in an oligomeric compound are capable of hybridizing to a nucleic acid molecule,
   normally a preselected RNA target. The term "oligomeric compound" therefore includes
   oligonucleotides, oligonucleotide analogs and oligonucleosides. It also includes polymers
 0 having one or a plurality of nucleoside mimetics and or nucleosides having sugar surrogate
   groups.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds comprise a plurality of monomer subunits
   independently selected from naturally occurring nucleosides, non-naturally occurring
   nucleosides, modified nucleosides, nucleoside mimetics, and nucleosides having sugar surrogate
 5 groups. In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds are single stranded. In certain
   embodiments, oligomeric compounds are double stranded comprising a double-stranded duplex.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds comprise one or more conjugate groups and/or
   terminal groups.
   As used herein the term "internucleoside linkage" or "internucleoside linking group" is meant to
 0 include all manner of intemucleoside linking groups known in the art including but not limited
   to, phosphorus containing internucleoside linking groups such as phosphodiester and
   phosphorothioate, and non-phosphorus containing intemucleoside linking groups such as
   formacetyl and methyleneimino. Internucleoside linkages also includes neutral non-ionic
   internucleoside linkages such as amide-3 (3'-CH 2 -C(=O)-N(H)-5'), amide-4 (3'-CH 2 -N(H)
25 C(=O)-5') and methylphosphonate wherein a phosphorus atom is not always present.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds as provided herein can be prepared having one
   or more internucleoside linkages containing modified e.g. non-naturally occurring
   internucleoside linkages. The two main classes of intemucleoside linkages are defined by the
   presence or absence of a phosphorus atom. Modified internucleoside linkages having a
30 phosphorus atom include without limitation, phosphorothioates, chiral phosphorothioates,
   phosphorodithioates, phosphotriesters, aminoalkylphosphotriesters, methyl and other alkyl
   phosphonates including 3'-alkylene phosphonates, 5'-alkylene phosphonates and chiral
   phosphonates, phosphinates, phosphoramidates including 3'-amino phosphoramidate and
   aminoalkylphosphoramidates, thionophosphoramidates, thionoalkylphosphonates, thionoalkyl
35 phosphotriesters, selenophosphates and boranophosphates having normal 3'-5' linkages, 2'-5'
                                                  -13-

   linked analogs of these, and those having inverted polarity wherein one or more internucleotide
   linkages is a 3' to 3', 5' to 5' or 2' to 2' linkage. Oligonucleotides having inverted polarity can
   comprise a single 3' to 3' linkage at the 3'-most internucleotide linkage i.e. a single inverted
   nucleoside residue which may be abasic (the nucleobase is missing or has a hydroxyl group in
 5 place thereof). Various salts, mixed salts and free acid forms are also included.
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds as provided herein can be prepared having one
   or more non-phosphorus containing internucleoside linkages. Such oligomeric compounds
   include without limitation, those that are formed by short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl
   internucleoside linkages, mixed heteroatom and alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages, or
 0 one or more short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic internucleoside linkages. These include
   those having siloxane backbones; sulfide, sulfoxide and sulfone backbones; formacetyl and
   thioformacetyl backbones; methylene formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones; riboacetyl
   backbones; alkene containing backbones; sulfamate backbones; methyleneimino and
   methylenehydrazino backbones; sulfonate and sulfonamide backbones; amide backbones; and
 5 others having mixed N, 0, S and CH 2 component parts.
   Representative U.S. patents that teach the preparation of the above oligonucleosides include
   without limitation, U.S.: 5,034,506; 5,166,315; 5,185,444; 5,214,134; 5,216,141; 5,235,033;
   5,264,562; 5,264,564; 5,405,938; 5,434,257; 5,466,677; 5,470,967; 5,489,677; 5,541,307;
   5,561,225; 5,596,086; 5,602,240; 5,608,046; 5,610,289; 5,618,704; 5,623,070; 5,663,312;
 0 5,633,360; 5,677,437; 5,677,439; 5,646,269 and 5,792,608, certain of which are commonly
   owned with this application, and each of which is herein incorporated by reference.
   In certain embodiments, the oligomeric compounds as provided herein can be modified by
   covalent attachment of one or more conjugate groups. In general, conjugate groups modify one
   or more properties of the oligomeric compounds they are attached to. Such oligonucleotide
25 properties include without limitation, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, binding,
   absorption, cellular distribution, cellular uptake, charge and clearance. Conjugate groups are
   routinely used in the chemical arts and are linked directly or via an optional linking moiety or
   linking group to a parent compound such as an oligomeric compound. A preferred list of
   conjugate groups includes without limitation, intercalators, reporter molecules, polyamines,
30 polyamides, polyethylene glycols, thioethers, polyethers, cholesterols, thiocholesterols, cholic
   acid moieties, folate, lipids, phospholipids, biotin, phenazine, phenanthridine, anthraquinone,
   adamantane, acridine, fluoresceins, rhodamines, coumarins and dyes.
   In certain embodiments, the oligomeric compounds as provided herein can be modified by
   covalent attachment of one or more terminal groups to the 5' or 3'-terminal groups. A terminal
                                                         -14-

   group can also be attached at any other position at one of the terminal ends of the oligomeric
   compound. As used herein the terms "5'-terminal group", "3'-terminal group", "terminal group"
   and combinations thereof are meant to include useful groups known to the art skilled that can be
   placed on one or both of the terminal ends, including but not limited to the 5' and 3'-ends of an
 5 oligomeric compound respectively, for various purposes such as enabling the tracking of the
   oligomeric compound (a fluorescent label or other reporter group), improving the
   pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of the oligomeric compound (such as for example:
   uptake and/or delivery) or enhancing one or more other desirable properties of the oligomeric
   compound (a group for improving nuclease stability or binding affinity). In certain
 0 embodiments, 5' and 3'-terminal groups include without limitation, modified or unmodified
   nucleosides; two or more linked nucleosides that are independently, modified or unmodified;
   conjugate groups; capping groups; phosphate moieties; and protecting groups.
            As used herein the term "phosphate moiety" refers to a terminal phosphate group that
   includes phosphates as well as modified phosphates. The phosphate moiety can be located at
 5 either terminus but is preferred at the 5'-terminal nucleoside. In one aspect, the terminal
   phosphate is unmodified having the formula -O-P(=O)(OH)OH. In another aspect, the terminal
   phosphate is modified such that one or more of the 0 and OH groups are replaced with H, 0, S,
   N(R) or alkyl where R is H, an amino protecting group or unsubstituted or substituted alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, the 5' and or 3' terminal group can comprise from 1 to 3 phosphate
 0 moieties that are each, independently, unmodified (di or tri-phosphates) or modified.
            As used herein, the term "phosphorus moiety" refers to a group having the formula:
                         R,
                    Rz=P-J
                         RV
   wherein:
            Rx and Ry are each, independently, hydroxyl, protected hydroxyl group, thiol, protected
25 thiol group, CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted C1-C6 alkyl, C1-C6 alkoxy, substituted C1-C6 alkoxy, a
   protected amino or substituted amino; and
            Rz is 0 or S.
            As a monomer such as a phosphoramidite or H-phosphonate the protected phosphorus
   moiety is preferred to maintain stability during oligomer synthesis. After incorporation into an
30 oligomeric compound the phosphorus moiety can include deprotected groups.
            Phosphorus moieties included herein can be attached to a monomer, which can be used in
   the preparation of oligomeric compounds, wherein the monomer may be attached using 0, S,
   NRd or CReRf, wherein Rd includes without limitation H, CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted CI-C 6 alkyl,
                                                    -15-

   C1-C 6 alkoxy, substituted C 1-C6 alkoxy, C2-C 6 alkenyl, substituted C2-C 6 alkenyl, C2-C 6 alkynyl,
   substituted C2-C 6 alkynyl or substituted acyl, and Re and Rf each, independently, include without
   limitation H, halogen, C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted C1 -C6 alkyl, C1 -C6 alkoxy or substituted C1 -C6
   alkoxy. Such linked phosphorus moieties include without limitation, phosphates, modified
 5 phosphates, thiophosphates, modified thiophosphates, phosphonates, modified phosphonates,
   phosphoramidates and modified phosphoramidates.
           The relative ability of a chemically-modified oligomeric compound to bind to comple
   mentary nucleic acid strands, as compared to natural oligonucleotides, is measured by obtaining
   the melting temperature of a hybridization complex of said chemically-modified oligomeric
 0 compound with its complementary unmodified target nucleic acid. The melting temperature
   (Tm), a characteristic physical property of double helixes, denotes the temperature in degrees
   centigrade at which 50% helical versus coiled (unhybridized) forms are present. Tm (also
   commonly referred to as binding affinity) is measured by using the UV spectrum to determine
   the formation and breakdown (melting) of hybridization. Base stacking, which occurs during
 5 hybridization, is accompanied by a reduction in UV absorption (hypochromicity). Consequently
   a reduction in UV absorption indicates a higher Tm.
           It is known in the art that the relative duplex stability of an antisense compound:RNA
   target duplex can be modulated through incorporation of chemically-modified nucleosides into
   the antisense compound. Sugar-modified nucleosides have provided the most efficient means of
 0 modulating the Tm of an antisense compound with its target RNA. Sugar-modified nucleosides
   that increase the population of or lock the sugar in the C3'-endo (Northern, RNA-like sugar
   pucker) configuration have predominantly provided a per modification Tm increase for antisense
   compounds toward a complementary RNA target. Sugar-modified nucleosides that increase the
   population of or lock the sugar in the C2'-endo (Southern, DNA-like sugar pucker) configuration
25 predominantly provide a per modification Tm decrease for antisense compounds toward a
   complementary RNA target. The sugar pucker of a given sugar-modified nucleoside is not the
   only factor that dictates the ability of the nucleoside to increase or decrease an antisense
   compound's Tm toward complementary RNA. For example, the sugar-modified nucleoside
   tricycloDNA is predominantly in the C2'-endo conformation, however it imparts a 1.9 to 3' C
30 per modification increase in Tm toward a complementary RNA. Another example of a sugar
   modified high-affinity nucleoside that does not adopt the C3'-endo conformation is a-L-LNA.
           As used herein, "Tm" (melting temperature) is the temperature at which the two strands of
   a duplex nucleic acid separate. The Tm is often used as a measure of duplex stability of an
   antisense compound toward a complementary RNA molecule.
35         As used herein, "complementarity" in reference to nucleobases refers to a nucleobase that
                                                     -16-

   is capable of base pairing with another nucleobase. For example, in DNA, adenine (A) is
   complementary to thymine (T). For example, in RNA, adenine (A) is complementary to uracil
   (U). In certain embodiments, complementary nucleobase refers to a nucleobase of an antisense
   compound that is capable of base pairing with a nucleobase of its target nucleic acid. For
 5 example, if a nucleobase at a certain position of an antisense compound is capable of hydrogen
   bonding with a nucleobase at a certain position of a target nucleic acid, then the position of
   hydrogen bonding between the oligonucleotide and the target nucleic acid is considered to be
   complementary at that nucleobase pair. Nucleobases or more broadly, heterocyclic base
   moieties, comprising certain modifications may maintain the ability to pair with a counterpart
 0 nucleobase and thus, are still capable of complementarity.
   As used herein, "non-complementary" " in reference to nucleobases refers to a pair of
   nucleobases that do not form hydrogen bonds with one another or otherwise support
   hybridization.
   As used herein, "complementary" in reference to linked nucleosides, oligonucleotides,
 5 oligomeric compounds, or nucleic acids, refers to the capacity of an oligomeric compound to
   hybridize to another oligomeric compound or nucleic acid through nucleobase or more broadly,
   heterocyclic base, complementarity. In certain embodiments, an antisense compound and its
   target are complementary to each other when a sufficient number of corresponding positions in
   each molecule are occupied by nucleobases that can bond with each other to allow stable
 0 association between the antisense compound and the target. One skilled in the art recognizes
   that the inclusion of mismatches is possible without eliminating the ability of the oligomeric
   compounds to remain in association. Therefore, described herein are antisense compounds that
   may comprise up to about 20% nucleotides that are mismatched (i.e., are not nucleobase
   complementary to the corresponding nucleotides of the target). Preferably the antisense
25 compounds contain no more than about 15%, more preferably not more than about 10%, most
   preferably not more than 5% or no mismatches.         The remaining nucleotides are nucleobase
   complementary or otherwise do not disrupt hybridization (e.g., universal bases). One of ordinary
   skill in the art would recognize the compounds provided herein are at least 80%, at least 85%, at
   least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99% or 100%
30 complementary to a target nucleic acid.
            It is understood in the art that the sequence of an oligomeric compound need not be 100%
   complementary to that of its target nucleic acid to be specifically hybridizable. Moreover, an
   oligomeric compound may hybridize over one or more segments such that intervening or
   adjacent segments are not involved in the hybridization event (e.g., a loop structure or hairpin
35 structure). In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds can comprise at least about 70%, at
                                                      -17-

   least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least about 99% sequence
   complementarity to a target region within the target nucleic acid sequence to which they are
   targeted. For example, an oligomeric compound in which 18 of 20 nucleobases of the
   oligomeric compound are complementary to a target region, and would therefore specifically
 5 hybridize, would represent 90 percent complementarity. In this example, the remaining
   noncomplementary nucleobases may be clustered or interspersed with complementary
   nucleobases and need not be contiguous to each other or to complementary nucleobases. As
   such, an oligomeric compound which is 18 nucleobases in length having 4 (four)
   noncomplementary nucleobases which are flanked by two regions of complete complementarity
 0 with the target nucleic acid would have 77.8% overall complementarity with the target nucleic
   acid and would thus fall within this scope. Percent complementarity of an oligomeric compound
   with a region of a target nucleic acid can be determined routinely using BLAST programs (basic
   local alignment search tools) and PowerBLAST programs known in the art (Altschul et al., J
   Mol. Biol., 1990, 215, 403-410; Zhang and Madden, Genome Res., 1997, 7, 649-656).
 5 As used herein, "hybridization" refers to the pairing of complementary oligomeric compounds
   (e.g., an antisense compound and its target nucleic acid). While not limited to a particular
   mechanism, the most common mechanism of pairing involves hydrogen bonding, which may be
   Watson-Crick, Hoogsteen or reversed Hoogsteen hydrogen bonding, between complementary
   nucleoside or nucleotide bases (nucleobases). For example, the natural base adenine is
 0 nucleobase complementary to the natural nucleobases thymidine and uracil which pair through
   the formation of hydrogen bonds. The natural base guanine is nucleobase complementary to the
   natural bases cytosine and 5-methyl cytosine. Hybridization can occur under varying
   circumstances.
   As used herein, "target nucleic acid" refers to any nucleic acid molecule the expression, amount,
25 or activity of which is capable of being modulated by an antisense compound. In certain
   embodiments, the target nucleic acid is DNA or RNA. In certain embodiments, the target RNA
   is mRNA, pre-mRNA, non-coding RNA, pri-microRNA, pre-microRNA, mature microRNA,
   promoter-directed RNA, or natural antisense transcripts. For example, the target nucleic acid
   can be a cellular gene (or mRNA transcribed from the gene) whose expression is associated with
30 a particular disorder or disease state, or a nucleic acid molecule from an infectious agent. In
   certain embodiments, target nucleic acid is a viral or bacterial nucleic acid.
   Further included herein are oligomeric compounds such as antisense oligomeric compounds,
   antisense oligonucleotides, ribozymes, external guide sequence (EGS) oligonucleotides, alternate
   splicers, primers, probes, and other oligomeric compounds which hybridize to at least a portion
35 of the target nucleic acid. As such, these oligomeric compounds may be introduced in the form
                                                     -18-

   of single-stranded, double-stranded, circular or hairpin oligomeric compounds and may contain
   structural elements such as internal or terminal bulges or loops. Once introduced to a system, the
   oligomeric compounds provided herein may elicit the action of one or more enzymes or
   structural proteins to effect modification of the target nucleic acid. Alternatively, the oligomeric
 5 compound may inhibit the activity the target nucleic acid through an occupancy-based method,
   thus interfering with the activity of the target nucleic acid.
   One non-limiting example of such an enzyme is RNAse H, a cellular endonuclease which
   cleaves the RNA strand of an RNA:DNA duplex. It is known in the art that single-stranded
   oligomeric compounds which are "DNA-like" elicit RNAse H. Activation of RNase H,
 0 therefore, results in cleavage of the RNA target, thereby greatly enhancing the efficiency of
   oligonucleotide-mediated inhibition of gene expression. Similar roles have been postulated for
   other ribonucleases such as those in the RNase III and ribonuclease L family of enzymes.
   While one form of oligomeric compound is a single-stranded antisense oligonucleotide, in many
   species the introduction of double-stranded structures, such as double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)
 5 molecules, has been shown to induce potent and specific antisense-mediated reduction of the
   function of a gene or its associated gene products. This phenomenon occurs in both plants and
   animals and is believed to have an evolutionary connection to viral defense and transposon
   silencing.
   As used herein, "modulation" refers to a perturbation of amount or quality of a function or
 0 activity when compared to the function or activity prior to modulation. For example, modulation
   includes the change, either an increase (stimulation or induction) or a decrease (inhibition or
   reduction) in gene expression. As a further example, modulation of expression can include
   perturbing splice site selection of pre-mRNA processing, resulting in a change in the amount of a
   particular splice-variant present compared to conditions that were not perturbed. As a further
25 example, modulation includes perturbing translation of a protein.
   As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" refers to salts that retain the desired
   activity of the compound and do not impart undesired toxicological effects thereto. The term
   "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" includes a salt prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable
   non-toxic acids or bases, including inorganic or organic acids and bases.
30 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the oligomeric compounds described herein may be
   prepared by methods well-known in the art. For a review of pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
   see Stahl and Wermuth, Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts: Properties, Selection and Use
   (Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, Germany, 2002). Sodium salts of antisense oligonucleotides are useful
   and are well accepted for therapeutic administration to humans. Accordingly, in one
35 embodiment the oligomeric compounds described herein are in the form of a sodium salt.
                                                     -19-

   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds provided herein comprise from about 8 to about
   80 monomer subunits in length. One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that this
   embodies oligomeric compounds of 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,
   25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,
 5 51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,76,
   77, 78, 79, or 80 monomer subunits in length, or any range therewithin.
   Oligomeric compounds are routinely prepared using solid support methods as opposed to
   solution phase methods. Commercially available equipment commonly used for the preparation
   of oligomeric compounds that utilize the solid support method is sold by several vendors
 0 including, for example, Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA). Any other means for such
   synthesis known in the art may additionally or alternatively be employed. Suitable solid phase
   techniques, including automated synthesis techniques, are described in Oligonucleotidesand
   Analogues, a PracticalApproach, F. Eckstein, Ed., Oxford University Press, New York, 1991.
   The synthesis of RNA and related analogs relative to the synthesis of DNA and related analogs
 5 has been increasing as efforts in RNA interference and micro RNA increase. The primary RNA
   synthesis strategies that are presently being used commercially include 5'-O-DMT-2'-O-t
   butyldimethylsilyl (TBDMS), 5'-O-DMT-2'-O-[1(2-fluorophenyl)-4-methoxypiperidin-4-yl]
   (FPMP), 2'-O-[(triisopropylsilyl)oxy]methyl (2'-O-CH2-0-Si(iPr)3 (TOM) and the 5'-0-silyl
   ether-2'-ACE (5'-O-bis(trimethylsiloxy)cyclododecyloxysilyl ether (DOD)-2'-O-bis(2
 0 acetoxyethoxy)methyl (ACE). A current list of some of the major companies currently offering
   RNA products include Pierce Nucleic Acid Technologies, Dharmacon Research Inc., Ameri
   Biotechnologies Inc., and Integrated DNA Technologies, Inc. One company, Princeton
   Separations, is marketing an RNA synthesis activator advertised to reduce coupling times
   especially with TOM and TBDMS chemistries. The primary groups being used for commercial
25 RNA synthesis are: TBDMS: 5'-O-DMT-2'-O-t-butyldimethylsilyl; TOM: 2'-0
   [(triisopropylsilyl)oxy]methyl; DOD/ACE: (5'-O-bis(trimethylsiloxy)cyclododecyloxysilyl
   ether-2'-O-bis(2-acetoxyethoxy)methyl; and FPMP: 5'-O-DMT-2'-O-[1(2-fluorophenyl)-4
   ethoxypiperidin-4-yl]. In certain embodiments, each of the aforementioned RNA synthesis
   strategies can be used herein. In certain embodiments, the aforementioned RNA synthesis
30 strategies can be performed together in a hybrid fashion e.g. using a 5'-protecting group from one
   strategy with a 2'-O-protecting from another strategy.
            In some embodiments, "suitable target segments" may be employed in a screen for
   additional oligomeric compounds that modulate the expression of a selected protein.
   "Modulators" are those oligomeric compounds that decrease or increase the expression of a
35 nucleic acid molecule encoding a protein and which comprise at least an 8-nucleobase portion
                                                    -20-

   which is complementary to a suitable target segment. The screening method comprises the steps
   of contacting a suitable target segment of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a protein with one or
   more candidate modulators, and selecting for one or more candidate modulators which decrease
   or increase the expression of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a protein. Once it is shown that
 5 the candidate modulator or modulators are capable of modulating (e.g. either decreasing or
   increasing) the expression of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a peptide, the modulator may
   then be employed herein in further investigative studies of the function of the peptide, or for use
   as a research, diagnostic, or therapeutic agent. In the case of oligomeric compounds targeted to
   microRNA, candidate modulators may be evaluated by the extent to which they increase the
 0 expression of a microRNA target RNA or protein (as interference with the activity of a
   microRNA will result in the increased expression of one or more targets of the microRNA).
           As used herein, "expression" refers to the process by which a gene ultimately results in a
   protein. Expression includes, but is not limited to, transcription, splicing, post-transcriptional
   modification, and translation.
 5          Suitable target segments may also be combined with their respective complementary
   oligomeric compounds provided herein to form stabilized double-stranded (duplexed)
   oligonucleotides. Such double stranded oligonucleotide moieties have been shown in the art to
   modulate target expression and regulate translation as well as RNA processing via an antisense
   mechanism. Moreover, the double-stranded moieties may be subject to chemical modifications
 0 (Fire et al., Nature, 1998, 391, 806-811; Timmons and Fire, Nature, 1998, 395, 854; Timmons et
   al., Gene, 2001, 263, 103-112; Tabara et al., Science, 1998, 282, 430-431; Montgomery et al.,
   Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 1998, 95, 15502-15507; Tuschl et al., Genes Dev., 1999, 13, 3191
   3197; Elbashir et al., Nature, 2001, 411, 494-498; Elbashir et al., Genes Dev., 2001, 15, 188
   200). For example, such double-stranded moieties have been shown to inhibit the target by the
25 classical hybridization of antisense strand of the duplex to the target, thereby triggering
   enzymatic degradation of the target (Tijsterman et al., Science, 2002, 295, 694-697).
   The oligomeric compounds provided herein can also be applied in the areas of drug discovery
   and target validation. In certain embodiments, provided herein is the use of the oligomeric
   compounds and targets identified herein in drug discovery efforts to elucidate relationships that
30 exist between proteins and a disease state, phenotype, or condition. These methods include
   detecting or modulating a target peptide comprising contacting a sample, tissue, cell, or organism
   with one or more oligomeric compounds provided herein, measuring the nucleic acid or protein
   level of the target and/or a related phenotypic or chemical endpoint at some time after treatment,
   and optionally comparing the measured value to a non-treated sample or sample treated with a
35 further oligomeric compound as provided herein. These methods can also be performed in
                                                    -21-

   parallel or in combination with other experiments to determine the function of unknown genes
   for the process of target validation or to determine the validity of a particular gene product as a
   target for treatment or prevention of a particular disease, condition, or phenotype. In certain
   embodiments, oligomeric compounds are provided for use in therapy. In certain embodiments,
 5 the therapy is reducing target messenger RNA.
   As used herein, the term "dose" refers to a specified quantity of a pharmaceutical agent provided
   in a single administration. In certain embodiments, a dose may be administered in two or more
   boluses, tablets, or injections. For example, in certain embodiments, where subcutaneous
   administration is desired, the desired dose requires a volume not easily accommodated by a
 0 single injection. In such embodiments, two or more injections may be used to achieve the
   desired dose. In certain embodiments, a dose may be administered in two or more injections to
   minimize injection site reaction in an individual.
   In certain embodiments, chemically-modified oligomeric compounds are provided herein that
   may have a higher affinity for target RNAs than does non-modified DNA. In certain such
 5 embodiments, higher affinity in turn provides increased potency allowing for the administration
   of lower doses of such compounds, reduced potential for toxicity, improvement in therapeutic
   index and decreased overall cost of therapy.
   Effect of nucleoside modifications on RNAi activity is evaluated according to existing literature
   (Elbashir et al., Nature, 2001, 411, 494-498; Nishikura et al., Cell, 2001, 107, 415-416; and Bass
 0 et al., Cell, 2000, 101, 235-238.)
   In certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds provided herein can be utilized for diagnostics,
   therapeutics, prophylaxis and as research reagents and kits. Furthermore, antisense
   oligonucleotides, which are able to inhibit gene expression with exquisite specificity, are often
   used by those of ordinary skill to elucidate the function of particular genes or to distinguish
25 between functions of various members of a biological pathway. In certain embodiments,
   oligomeric compounds provided herein can be utilized either alone or in combination with other
   oligomeric compounds or other therapeutics as tools in differential and/or combinatorial analyses
   to elucidate expression patterns of a portion or the entire complement of genes expressed within
   cells and tissues. Oligomeric compounds can also be effectively used as primers and probes
30 under conditions favoring gene amplification or detection, respectively. These primers and
   probes are useful in methods requiring the specific detection of nucleic acid molecules encoding
   proteins and in the amplification of the nucleic acid molecules for detection or for use in further
   studies. Hybridization of oligomeric compounds as provided herein, particularly the primers and
   probes, with a nucleic acid can be detected by means known in the art. Such means may include
35 conjugation of an enzyme to the oligonucleotide, radiolabelling of the oligonucleotide or any
                                                    -22-

   other suitable detection means. Kits using such detection means for detecting the level of
   selected proteins in a sample may also be prepared.
   As one nonlimiting example, expression patterns within cells or tissues treated with one or more
   of the oligomeric compounds provided herein are compared to control cells or tissues not treated
 5 with oligomeric compounds and the patterns produced are analyzed for differential levels of
   gene expression as they pertain, for example, to disease association, signaling pathway, cellular
   localization, expression level, size, structure or function of the genes examined. These analyses
   can be performed on stimulated or unstimulated cells and in the presence or absence of other
   compounds and or oligomeric compounds which affect expression patterns.
 0 Examples of methods of gene expression analysis known in the art include DNA arrays or
   microarrays (Brazma and Vilo, FEBS Lett., 2000, 480, 17-24; Celis, et al., FEBS Lett., 2000,
   480, 2-16), SAGE (serial analysis of gene expression)(Madden, et al., DrugDiscov. Today,
   2000, 5, 415-425), READS (restriction enzyme amplification of digested cDNAs) (Prashar and
   Weissman, Methods Enzymol., 1999, 303, 258-72), TOGA (total gene expression analysis)
 5 (Sutcliffe, et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 2000, 97, 1976-8 1), protein arrays and proteomics
   (Celis, et al., FEBS Lett., 2000, 480, 2-16; Jungblut, et al., Electrophoresis,1999, 20, 2100-10),
   expressed sequence tag (EST) sequencing (Celis, et al., FEBS Lett., 2000, 480, 2-16; Larsson, et
   al., J Biotechnol., 2000, 80, 143-57), subtractive RNA fingerprinting (SuRF) (Fuchs, et al.,
   Anal. Biochem., 2000, 286, 91-98; Larson, et al., Cytometry, 2000, 41, 203-208), subtractive
 0 cloning, differential display (DD) (Jurecic and Belmont, Curr. Opin. Microbiol., 2000, 3, 316
   21), comparative genomic hybridization (Carulli, et al., J Cell Biochem. Suppl., 1998, 31, 286
   96), FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridization) techniques (Going and Gusterson, Eur. J Cancer,
   1999, 35, 1895-904) and mass spectrometry methods (To, Comb. Chem. High Throughput
   Screen, 2000, 3, 235-41).
25 Those skilled in the art, having possession of the present disclosure will be able to prepare
   oligomeric compounds, comprising a contiguous sequence of linked monomer subunits, of
   essentially any viable length to practice the methods disclosed herein. Such oligomeric
   compounds will include at least one and preferably a plurality of the tricyclic nucleosides
   provided herein and may also include other monomer subunits including but not limited to
30 nucleosides, modified nucleosides, nucleosides comprising sugar surrogate groups and
   nucleoside mimetics.
   While in certain embodiments, oligomeric compounds provided herein can be utilized as
   described, the following examples serve only to illustrate and are not intended to be limiting.
   Examples (General Methods)
                                                     -23-

   1H  and  13
              C NMR spectra were recorded on a 300 or MHz and 75 MHz Bruker spectrometer,
   respectively.
   Synthesis of Nucleoside Phosphoramidites
   The preparation of nucleoside phosphoramidites is performed following procedures that are
 5 illustrated herein and in the art such as but not limited to US Patent 6,426,220 and W002/36743.
   Synthesis of Oligomeric Compounds
   The oligomeric compounds used in accordance with this invention may be conveniently and
   routinely made through solid phase synthesis.
   Oligomeric compounds: Unsubstituted and substituted phosphodiester (P=O) oligomeric
 0 compounds can be synthesized on an automated DNA synthesizer (for example Applied
   Biosystems model 394) using standard phosphoramidite chemistry with oxidation by iodine.
   In certain embodiments, phosphorothioate intemucleoside linkages (P=S) are synthesized similar
   to phosphodiester intemucleoside linkages with the following exceptions: thiation is effected by
   utilizing a 0.25 M solution of phenylacetyl disulfide in acetonitrile:pyridine 1: 1(V/V) for the
 5 oxidation of the phosphite linkages. The thiation reaction step time is increased to 180 sec and
   preceded by the normal capping step. After cleavage from the CPG column and deblocking in
   concentrated ammonium hydroxide at 55'C (12-16 hr), the oligomeric compounds are recovered
   by precipitating with greater than 3 volumes of ethanol from a 1 M NH 40Ac solution.
   Phosphinate internucleoside linkages can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent 5,508,270.
 0 Alkyl phosphonate intemucleoside linkages can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent
   4,469,863. 3'-Deoxy-3'-methylene phosphonate intemucleoside linkages can be prepared as
   described in U.S. Patents 5,610,289 or 5,625,050. Phosphoramidite internucleoside linkages can
   be prepared as described in U.S. Patent, 5,256,775 or U.S. Patent 5,366,878.
   Alkylphosphonothioate internucleoside linkages can be prepared as described in published PCT
25 applications PCT/US94/00902 and PCT/US93/06976 (published as WO 94/17093 and WO
   94/02499, respectively). 3'-Deoxy-3'-amino phosphoramidate intemucleoside linkages can be
   prepared as described in U.S. Patent 5,476,925. Phosphotriester internucleoside linkages can be
   prepared as described in U.S. Patent 5,023,243. Borano phosphate intemucleoside linkages can
   be prepared as described in U.S. Patents 5,130,302 and 5,177,198.
30 Oligomeric compounds having one or more non-phosphorus containing intemucleoside linkages
   including without limitation methylenemethylimino linked oligonucleosides, also identified as
   MMI linked oligonucleosides, methylenedimethylhydrazo linked oligonucleosides, also
   identified as MDH linked oligonucleosides, methylenecarbonylamino linked oligonucleosides,
   also identified as amide-3 linked oligonucleosides, and methyleneaminocarbonyl linked oligo
35 nucleosides, also identified as amide-4 linked oligonucleosides, as well as mixed backbone
                                                     -24-

   oligomeric compounds having, for instance, alternating MMI and P=O or P=S linkages can be
   prepared as described in U.S. Patents 5,378,825, 5,386,023, 5,489,677, 5,602,240 and
   5,610,289.
   Formacetal and thioformacetal intemucleoside linkages can be prepared as described in U.S.
 5 Patents 5,264,562 and 5,264,564. Ethylene oxide internucleoside linkages can be prepared as
   described in U.S. Patent 5,223,618.
   Isolation and Purification of Oligomeric Compounds
   After cleavage from the controlled pore glass solid support or other support medium and
   deblocking in concentrated ammonium hydroxide at 55 0 C for 12-16 hours, the oligomeric
 0 compounds, including without limitation oligonucleotides and oligonucleosides, are recovered
   by precipitation out of 1 M NH 40Ac with >3 volumes of ethanol. Synthesized oligomeric
   compounds are analyzed by electrospray mass spectrometry (molecular weight determination)
   and by capillary gel electrophoresis. The relative amounts of phosphorothioate and
   phosphodiester linkages obtained in the synthesis is determined by the ratio of correct molecular
 5 weight relative to the -16 amu product (+/-32 +/-48). For some studies oligomeric compounds
   are purified by HPLC, as described by Chiang et al., J. Biol. Chem. 1991, 266, 18162-18171.
   Results obtained with HPLC-purified material are generally similar to those obtained with non
   HPLC purified material.
   Example 1
 0 Preparation of Compound 11 (Scheme 1)
   Compound 1 is prepared according to published procedures by Steffens et al., Helvetica Chimica
   Acta, 1997, 80, 2426-2439. Bromination followed by bromine fluorine exchange gives
   compound 4 that is converted into the cyclopropane 5 with CH 212 and diethylzinc. Compound 5
   was then converted into enolether 6 which was subjected to NIS mediated nucleosidation
25 affording after radical reduction nucleosides 8 in a highly stereoselective manner. Desilylation,
   tritylation and phosphitylation following standard procedures yielded the phosphoramidite 11
   containing the nucleobase thymine that was subsequently used for oligonucleotide synthesis.
                                                   -25-

   Scheme 1:
   TBDMSO               Br2, Et3N, CH 2C 2      TBDMSO                             BSA,        TBDMSO
                            -78'C - r.t.                         0              pyridine r.t.                O        1) t-BuLi, NFSI, -120 to-78*C,
                  -OMe                        -   Br                   OMe                 30 Br                  OMe   THF/Et 2 O/pentane 5:1:0.5
                                                              90%                  91%                   z
             OH                 90%                          OH                                          OTMS         2)Amberlyst 15, Et2O
              1                                              2                                             3                       60%
    TBDMSO               CH 2 12 ZnEt 2,TFA, CH 2 CI2              OTBDMS                TMS-OTf            OTBDMS
                                                             F                          2,6-lutidine   F                BSAthymine, NIS
        F           OMe              OC-r.t.
                                                                                                              4
                                       70%                   FC>~                            H2CI2     FV        -'           H2CI2 , rt.
              OH                                                      OH                     91%               OTMS            85%
              4                                                         5                                     6
          OTBDMS                 ABN, BU3 SnH                OTBDMS                      H pyridine,
                                                                                                   .F      OH                             DMT-CI, pyridine
                                                                                                                         -rt,               48h
                                 toluene, 950'C,                   04h
                                                                                   0
               F  N     H 0              95%
                                      -'fN
                                                      F                   N                   87%     FriF           N,                     87%
        TMSO    10                                              OTMSO                                         OH
                7                                                 8
                                                          ODMT
           ODM                  CEP CI, Et2 NiPr ,
                                                  2
                  Q I,-      0THFrt,2h           . F                     N -I, H 0
                    z>NH                  70%                          0
             OH    OiPrN                                      K
             10                                     (iPr)2N'    OCH 2CH 2CN
                                                               11
   Example 2:
 5 Preparation of compound 18 (Scheme 2)
   Compound 18 is prepared starting from compound 8 from Example 1. The base in 8 is converted
   in two steps via the triazolide 12 to the 5-methylcytosine containing nucleoside 13 which is then
   base protected by benzoylation leading to the two compounds 14 and 15, that deviate only by the
   presence or absence, resp., of the 3' TMS group. Both 14 and 15 are then silyl-deprotected,
10 tritylated and phosphitylated in analogy to Example 1, yielding the phosphoramidite 18.
                                                                        -26-

Scheme 2:
                           1,2,4-trizole, POCl ,
                                              3
     OTBDMS                    Et 3N, CH 3CN               OTBDMS 0                        1,4-Dioxane:NH 40H 1:1         OTBDMS 0
                   F          3,5 h, 0 C-8 C          F-N                           N                r.t, 2h          F              N
     FK 0KN,          0                                   QJ).N                   N
                                                                                   \-NN               60%
                                                                                                                      FII              NH2
        OTMS 0                                               OTMS                               (after 2 steps)            OTMS
             8                                                  12                                                           13
                           OTBDMS 0
                                                 NHBz      90%                                          OH
    Bz 20, DMAP, EtN          OTMS                                    HFPy, CH 2Cl2 :pyridine, F>N                -N    H
     CHCNrt, 6                    14,39%                                 5:1, O'C-r.t., 24 h       F          N     \NHBz
                                       +                                                                   6H
                           OTBDMS 0                                                                            16
                        F               N        NHBz      90%
                              OH
                                   15, 54%
     DMT-CI, pyridine DMTO            O               CEP-CI, iPr2NEt           DMTO             O
          r.t. 48h              O.      )  NN          CH 3CN, r.t., 2h,                    O              N
                            OH                              90%                 F                N
                                17                                            iPr 2N-p'
                                                                                       OCH2CH 2CN
                                                                                       18
Example 3 Preparation of compound 31 (Scheme 3)
The known compound 19 is converted into the enol ether 20 by Lewis acid mediated elimination
of the methoxy group. After desilylation (-> 21) and reprotection of the resulting hydroxy
groups with acetic anhydride, compound 22 was obtained which upon fluorination with
selectfluorTM resulted in the two sugar building blocks with the fluoro substituent in either the
ribo (23) or the arabino (24) configuration as roughly a 1:1 mixture. Compound 24 was then
converted to the bromoacetal 26, via the acetoxy derivative 25. This was necessary as the acetate
25 was not reactive enough for nucleosidation. Bromoacetal 26 was treated with in situ
persilylated thymine and resulted in nucleoside 27 that was obtained as an inseparable anomeric
mixture in a c, -ratio of 1:2.5. Removal of the protecting groups in 27 led to the free nucleosides
28 and 29 that could be separated by standard chromatography. The                                         -nucleoside 29 was further
tritylated by standard methods to afford compound 30 that was finally phosphitylated to yield the
phosphoramidite building block 31, ready for use in oligonucleotide synthesis.
                                                                -27-

Scheme 3:
                       TMSOTf
      OTBDMS          2,6-lutidine           OTBDMS             .             OH         Ac20, pyridine
                                                                                               DMAP
                         CH2CI2            '          CH2C pyridine 5:1
                O:e
                           'e0*.t.O'C0*-r                         t0*C-r.t.
         OH                88%                 OTMS           95%-               OH             80%
       19                                      20                                21
      OAc           Selectfluor               OAc                 OAc
                                   5:1                   OH +                 O     Ac20, pyridine
                   3_NO 2 /H2 0CH
                               _NO/H
                                                         OH   +               OH         '-rt
                                                      -0-0C-t
         OAc            r.t.                     OAc F                 OACF
          22                                     23                    24
                                                36%                   33%
                              HBr                                                                         0.2 M NaOH
      OAc(33%                 in AcOH)          OAc           Thymine, BSA       OAc                    THF/MeOH/H 20
                                                                               "                      O       5:4:1
                OAc         CH 2 CI 2    ,                 BrCH2C12
                               r.t                 6A               r.t.                 F    , -NH          0*C-r.t.
         OAc F                                        cF      80% (from 24)         O c
          25                                      26                                    27
                                                                                     x:p 1:2.5
      OH                                   OH                         DMTrCI      ODMTr                   CEP-CI, iPr 2NEt
   "-        0                        ("         0                   pyridine   &"       0                    CH3CN
                            mNOH                   F N          0                    OH        N        0
                                                           NH            9              HF O                      t70%
          6HFO
         28                                   29                                           30
       26%                                   66%
          ODMTr
        .           N            O
 iPr 2N,-.O     F O>NH
          OCH 2CH2CN
                31
Example 5 Preparation of compound 36 (Scheme 4)
The synthesis of the phosphoramidite 36 started with sugar 23, displaying the fluoro-substituent
in the ribo-configuration. Compound 23 was prepared for nucleosidation via acetylation yielding
acetate 32. Subsequent nucleosidation of 32 via the Vorbriiggen procedure yielded nucleoside 33
with high selectivity (cc:              1:12). Nucleoside 33 was then deprotected (-> 34) and converted into
the phosphoramidite building block 31 by standard tritylation (-> 35) and phosphitylation.
                                                                  -28-

   Scheme 4:
                                                           Thymine                                   0.2 M NaOH
      OAc                               OAc                   BSA        OAc                       THF/MeOH/H 20
                                                                                       N         O       5:4:1
                                                0    O'     TMSOTf
                OH Ac20, pyridine
                        0*C-r.t.            = -,
                                            -r5
                                                         CH 3CN, reflux        =      01,-N             OC-r.t.
                                                                                                         90
         OAc"F                             OAcg          66% (from 23)       OAc'F    O                  94%
         23                                 32                                  33
      OH                       DMTCI         ODMTr                   0EP0I Pr2NEt          ODMTr
                 N       0     pyridine   t             N        0                                    NHC       0O
                   NH             r                     NCNH              r.t.      tN
         OH 'F                   97%            OH 'F                    66%       iPr 2N..  O    'F 0
                                                                                            OCH 2CH 2CN
                                                                                                  36
   Example 6
   Preparation of oligomeric compounds
            Following synthetic procedures well known in the art, some of which are illustrated
   herein, oligomeric compounds are prepared having at least one tricyclic nucleosides, using one
   or more of the phosphoramidite compounds illustrated in the examples such as DMT
 5 phosphoramidites (see compound 11, compound 18, compound 31 or compound 36).
   Example 7
   Preparation of oligomeric compounds for Tm studies (Table 1)
   Following standard automated DNA synthesis protocols oligomeric compounds were prepared
 0 comprising one or more tricyclic nucleosides for Tm studies. After cleavage from the solid
   support, the oligomeric compounds were purified by ion exchange HPLC and analyzed by
   LCMS using standard procedures. The Tm of the modified 1Omer oligomeric compounds were
   compared to an unmodified 1Omer DNA oligonucleotide when duplexed to either DNA or RNA.
   Tm's were determined using a Cary 100 Bio spectrophotometer with the Cary Win UV thermal
15 program was used to measure absorbance vs. temperature. For the Tm experiments, the
   oligomeric compounds were prepared at a concentration of 1.2 tM in a buffer of 150 mM NaCl,
   10 mM phosphate, 0.1 mM EDTA at pH 7. The concentration determined at 85 'C was 1.2 tM
   after mixing of equal volumes of selected oligomeric compound and complementary RNA or
   DNA. The oligomeric compounds were hybridized with a complementary RNA or DNA by
20 heating the duplex to 90 'C for 5 minutes and then cooling to room temperature. Tm
   measurements were taken using a spectrophotometer while the duplex solution was heated in a
   cuvette at a rate of 0.5 'C/min starting at 15 'C until the temperature was 85 'C. Tm values were
   determined using Vant Hoff calculations (A 2 60 vs temperature curve) using non self
                                                          -29-

   complementary sequences where the minimum absorbance related to the duplex and the
   maximum absorbance related to the non-duplex single strand are manually integrated into the
   program.
   Table 1:
 5 SEQ ID NO.               Sequence (5' to 3')          ATm/mod (*C)           ATm/mod (*C)
                                                         vs DNA                 vs RNA
   01                      AACTGTCACG                    0                      0
   02                      AACTGTaCACG                   +2.1                   +0.9
   03                      AACTGTbCACG                   +2.0                   +0.4
 0 04                      AACTbGTCACG                   +1.6                   +0.7
   05                      AACTbGTbCACG                  0                      0
   06                      pAaAaCaTaGaTaCaAaCaGa         0                      0
   07                      pAaAaCaTaGaTbCaAaCaGa         0                      +0.7
   08                      pAaAaCaTbGaTaCaAaCaGa         -1.6                   +0.3
 5 09                      pAaAaCaTbGaTbCaAaCaGa         -1.8                   -0.2
   10                      AACTGTcCACG                   +1.8                   +0.9
   11                      AACTcGTCACG                   +3.1                   +3.4
   12                      AACTcGTcCACG                  +1.8                   +2.8
   13                      AACTGTdCACG                   -4.5                   -4.7
 0 14                      AACTdGTCACG                   -2.7                   -2.5
   15                      AACTdGTdCACG                  -4.3                   -3.0
   16                      GCATTTTTACCG                  0                      0
   17                      GCATdTdTdTdTdACCG             -1.1                   +0.6
 5 The Tms of the unmodified oligomeric compound AO1 are 43.5 'C and 45.1 'C duplexed with
   DNA or RNA, respectively. The Tms of the fully modified compound A05 are 55.0 'C and 66.2
   'C when duplexed with DNA and RNA, respectively. The Tms of the unmodified olignucleotide
   A15 are 45.6 'C and 42.2 'C when duplexed with DNA and RNA, respectively. Fully modified
   duplexes A05-A08 are 5'-phosphorylated. ATm/modification of duplexes containing A05-A08
30 are referenced to A05. ATm/modification of A02-A04 and A09-A14 are referenced to AO1. Each
   internucleoside linking group is a phosphodiester. Each nucleoside not followed by a subscript
   is a p-D-2'-deoxyribonucleoside and each nucleoside followed by a subscript "a" or "b" or "c" or
   "d" are as defined below. From the ATm data it becomes clear that the 6'-fluorinated
   nucleosides (subtype b) and the 2'-fluororibo nucleosides (subtype c) stabilize duplex formation
35 with complementary DNA with a ATm of +1.6 to +3.1 'C per modification and with
   complementary RNA with a ATm of +0.4 to +3.4 'C per modification. Within a tricyclo-DNA
   backbone (A05-A08) a fluorine atom at C6' can stabilize duplexes with complementary RNA by
   up to +0.7'C per modification compared to a hydrogen atom in the same position (A07 vs A06).
   This stabilization is sequence dependent. With DNA as a complement the effect of fluorine at
40 C6' is slightly destabilizing. Single arabinofluoro nucleoside residues (subscript d) destabilize
                                                    -30-

   duplexes with complementary DNA with a ATm of -2.7 to -4.5 'C per modification and with
   complementary RNA with a ATm of -2.5 to -4.7 'C per modification. However, a sequence
   containing 5 consecutive arabinofluoro residues (A16) stabilizes duplexes with complementary
   RNA by ATm/mod of +0.6.
                   T      F                T                      T                 T
          0                       .0OF                                      .OF
       subscript a          subscript b               subscript c       subscript d
 5
   Example 8: Preparation and functional analysis of oligomeric compounds for exon 23
   skipping in primary mdx cells from mdx mice.
   Four oligonucleotide 15-mers (A20-A23) were synthesized (Table 2):
 0 Table 2:
   SEQ ID NO.             Sequence (5' to 3')                            internucleoside linkage
   18                     pAaAaCaCaTaCaGaGaCaTaTaAaCaCaTa                PO
   19                     pAaAaCaCaTaCaGaGaCaTaTaAaCaCaTa                PS
   20                     pAaAaCbCbTbCbGaGaCbTbTbAaCbCbTb                PO
 5 21                     pAaAaCbCbTbCbGaGaCbTbTbAaCbCbTb                PS
   Each nucleoside followed by a subscript "a" or "b" is defined as in example 7. All
   oligonucleotides A20-A23 carry a phosphate unit (p) at the 5'-end. A20 and A22 have all
   phosphate (PO) intemucleoside linkages while oligonucleotides A21 and A23 have all
   phosphorothioate (PS) internucleoside linkages. In oligonucleotides A20 and A21, C refers to the
20 base cytosine whereas in oligonucleotides A22 and A23, C refers to the base 5'methylcytosine.
   The mdx mouse represents a model for the human genetic disease Duchenne muscular
   dystrophy. It contains a mutation in exon 23 of the mouse dystrophin gene which gives rise to a
   premature stop codon. As a consequence no functional dystrophin mRNA and dystrophin protein
25 is produced. It is known in the field (Lu et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2005, 102, 198-203) that
   administration of an antisense oligonucleotide designed to bind to the exon/intron junction of
   exon 23 leads to skipping of exon 23 during mRNA splicing and thus to a functional variant of
   the mouse dystrophin protein.
                                                     -31-

  To test the exon skipping potential of A20-A23, mdx primary cells (mdx mouse) were
  transfected without transfection agents (gymnosis) with 50 tg (approx 9 nmol) of each
  oligonucleotide A20 to A23. Cells were harvested 4 days after transfection and the RNA was
  extracted. RT-PCR and nested PCR around exon 23 (EX20F/Ex26R) was performed and the
5 products analyzed by gel electrophoresis (Figure 1). The oligonucleotides A21 and A 23 show
  substantial exon skipping. Qualitatively the skipping with the fluoro-oligonucleotide A23 is
  slightly superior compared to A21, containing no fluorine substituents.
  Figure 1 shows an agarose gel of PCR fragments representing the region of exon 20 to exon 26
0 of the mdx dstrophin RNA after nested PCR. The slower moving band correspond to non
  skipped RNA (including exon 20) while the faster moving band corresponds to skipped (exon 20
  excluded) RNA.
                                                  -32-

   What is claimed is:
        1. A tricyclic nucleoside decribed by general Formula I:
                            q1 T1 H
                                         0
                      q2                        B
                       q3            .x
                           94        T2 iz
                                 q5 2 z2           (I) wherein:
 5    -    Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety;
      -    one of TI and T2 is hydroxyl (-OH) or a protected hydroxyl and the other of TI and T2 is
           a phosphate or a reactive phosphorus group;
      -    one of qi, q2,    q3, q4, q5, zI and z2 is F,
      -    the other ones of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z 2 are, independently, selected from H, F, Cl;
 0    -    one of z1 and z 2 is H or F and the other of z' and z2 is H, -OH, Cl, OCH 3 , OCF 3 ,
           OCH2CH3, OCH 2CF 3 , OCH 2-CH=CH 2, O(CH 2)2-OCH 3 , O(CH 2)2-O(CH 2)2-N(CH 3)2 ,
           OCH 2C(=0)-N(H)CH 3 , OCH 2 C(=O)-N(H)-(CH 2)2-N(CH 3)2 or OCH 2 -N(H)-C(=NH)NH 2 .
   2.       The tricyclic nucleoside of claim 1, wherein Bx is uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methyl
            cytosine, adenine or guanine.
 5 3.       The tricyclic nucleoside of any one of the preceding claims, wherein T, is hydroxyl or
            protected hydroxyl, and wherein T2 is a reactive phosphorus group selected from an H
            phosphonate or a phosphoramidite.
   4.       The tricyclic nucleoside of any one of the preceding claims, wherein T, is 4,4'
            dimethoxytrityl and T2 is diisopropylcyanoethoxy phosphoramidite or a controlled pore
20          glass surface.
   5.       The tricyclic nucleoside of any one of the preceding claims, wherein one or two of q3, q4,
            q5 zI and z2 is F, and the other of q3, q4, q5 z' and z 2 are H.
   6.       A tricyclic nucleoside selected from the group of
                         ODMT                                    DMTO  H
                                                                 F              Bx
                  F                   Bx
                            0                                          0F
                  N(iPr)2"      OCH2CH2CN                     NC          N(iPr)2
              a.                               ,         b.
                                                           -34-

                       DMTO    H                                DMTO    H
                       F                Bx                                        Bx
                               O F                                       O F
                 NC        O      N(iPr)2                    NC       O     N(iPr)2
             C.                               ,d.
                       DMTO    H
                                                                 OH
                                        Bx                  FJ              Bx
                 NCNP,
                    C       O'    N(iPr)2                           OH
             e.                               ,        f
                    HO    H                                    HO   H
                 F                Bx                        F                Bx
             g.
                          OHF            ,Oh.          h.   F         HF
                 HO     HHO                                      H
                               Bx                                        Bx
                  .     OHF                           j.         OH F
 5      wherein Bx is selected from uracil, thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine and
        guanine.
   7.      An oligomeric compound comprising at least one tricyclic nucleoside having Formula II:
                 q1 T3 H
            q2                      Bx
             q3                     B
                q4       T       z1
                      q5   4Z2                            (II) wherein independently for each tricyclic
           nucleoside of Formula II:
10    Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety;
      one of T3 and T 4 is an internucleoside linking group attaching the tricyclic nucleoside of
      Formula II to the oligomeric compound and the other of T3 and T4 is hydroxyl, a protected
      hydroxyl, a 5' or 3' terminal group or an internucleoside linking group attaching the tricyclic
      nucleoside to the oligomeric compound;
15    -   one of qi, q2, q3, q4, q5, zI and z 2 is F,
      -   the other ones of qi, q2, q3, q4,   q5, zI and z 2 are, independently, selected from H, F, Cl;
                                                          -35-

       - one of z1 and z 2 is H or F and the other of z' and z2 is H, -OH, Cl, OCH 3 , OCF 3 ,
         OCH 2CH 3 , OCH 2CF 3 , OCH 2-CH=CH 2, O(CH 2) 2-OCH 3 , O(CH 2) 2-O(CH 2) 2-N(CH 3) 2 ,
         OCH 2C(=0)-N(H)CH 3 , OCH 2 C(=0)-N(H)-(CH 2) 2-N(CH 3) 2 or OCH 2 -N(H)-C(=NH)NH 2 .
   and
 5        wherein said oligomeric compound comprises from 8 to 40 monomeric subunits.
   8.     The oligomeric compound of claims 7, wherein each Bx is, independently, uracil,
          thymine, cytosine, 5-methylcytosine, adenine or guanine.
   9.     The oligomeric compound of any one of claims 7 to 8, wherein each intemucleoside
          linking group is, independently, a phosphodiester intemucleoside linking group or a
 0        phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group.
   10.    The oligomeric compound of any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein essentially each inter
          nucleoside linking group is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group.
   11.    The oligomeric compound of any one of claims 7 to 10, comprising a first region having
          at least two contiguous tricyclic nucleosides having Formula II.
 5 12.    The oligomeric compound of claim 11 comprising a second region having at least two
          contiguous monomeric subunits wherein each monomeric subunit in the second region is
          a modified nucleoside different from the tricyclic nucleosides of Formula II of said first
          region.
   13.    The oligomeric compound of claim 12 further comprising a third region located between
 0        said first and second regions wherein each monomer subunit in the third region is
          independently, a nucleoside or a modified nucleoside that is different from each tricyclic
          nucleoside of Formula II of the first region and each monomer subunit the second region.
   14.    The oligomeric compound of any one of claims 7 to 13 comprising a gapped oligomeric
          compound having an internal region of from 6 to 14 contiguous monomer subunits
25        flanked on each side by an external region of from 1 to 5 contiguous monomer subunits
          wherein each monomer subunit in each external region is a tricyclic nucleoside of
          Formula II and each monomer subunit in the internal region is, independently, a
          nucleoside or modified nucleoside.
   15.    The oligomeric compound of any one of claims 7 to 14, comprising one or several
30        nucleotide blocks selected from the group consisting of
                                                   -36-

                      T                                T3
               F                   Thy          F      hI          5-mCyt
          a.             T                 or             T
                    T3                              T
               F                    Thy          F                  5-mCyt
                               F4                                F
                            -F                              -=F
          b.             T                  or             T
                    T3   H                          T3     H
                             0                     uI.         0
               F                    Thy          F                  5-mCyt
          c.               4 F              or                   F
                 T     H                       T3   H
                                 Thy           -5-mCyt
          d.                            or
                 Ta            H                   H
                                               TL
                                 Thy                           5-mCyt
5         e.           T   F            or          T     F
               wherein T3 and T4 have the meanings outlined above.
  16. A method for solid-phase synthesis of an oligonucleotide, comprising the use of a
      tricyclic nucleoside according to any of claims 1 to 6.
                                                        -37-

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             Fig. 1
1/1

<removed-date>
                               !    "
               #    $   %               &   '        ' &   &( $   &( &   '   $   $ '   ) $ *$&(
               +    ,   +-./
<removed-apn>
               0    #
               1    2                   /   +3
              #
              #
              # #   '
              # +       -   2
              ##
              ##+              -/   4 /567       2   2 2 7
              22    2
              #     #
              #
              # #   '
              # +       -   2
              ##
              ##+              -/   4 /567       2   2 2 7
              ##
                                                             2

<removed-date>
              ##     8       9- 2
              ###    :0;33:0;
              ##+            7               /   <   2   / <       / -/8   2     .   6     2 <   # 4
                     56/ 562        = "> 4           678 <       2 <   6   / 6       4           4
                     67< /
                     #
<removed-apn>
              22     2
              #      +
              #
              # #    '
              # +            -   2
              ##
              ##+                   -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##     8       9- 2
              ###    :0;33:0;
              ##+            7               /   <   2   / <       / -/8   2     .   6     2 <   # 4
                     56/ 562        = "> 4           678     =   + 4       * 2 <     6   / 6
                         4               4       67< /
                     +
              22     2
              #
              #
              # #    '
               # +           -      2
                                                                   2   #

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
<removed-apn>
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <       / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    =   + 4        * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              22    2
              #
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <       / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    =   + 4        * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
               ##   8       9- 2
                                                                  2   +

<removed-date>
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2   .      6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    =    + 4           * 2 <    6      / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              22    2
<removed-apn>
              #     0
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567       2    2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2   .      6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           2<         2 <       6   / 6      4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+           7               /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2   .      6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           2<         2 <       6   / 6      4               4
                    67< /
              ##
               ##   8       9- 2
                                                                     2

<removed-date>
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+       7           /   <   2   / <         / -/8     2   .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       7 /       2 <       6   / 6       4         4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
<removed-apn>
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2   / <         / -/8     2   .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       678       2 <       6   / 6   4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2   / <         / -/8     2   .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       2         2 <       6   / 6   4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+       7           /   <   2   / <         / -/8     2   .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       678       2 <       6   / 6   4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+       7           /   <   2   / <         / -/8     2   .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       7 /       2 <       6   / 6       4         4
                    67< /
              ##
                                                            2

<removed-date>
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4        2<         2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
<removed-apn>
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+       7            /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4        7 /        2 <       6       / 6       4         4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4         2         2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
                    0
              22    2
              #     1
              #
              # #   '
              # +       -      2
              ##
              ##+              -/   4 /567    2    2 2 7
              ##
                                                              2       0

<removed-date>
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       2<         2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
<removed-apn>
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       2<         2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       7 /        2 <       6       / 6       4         4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       678        2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4        2         2 <       6   / 6       4             4
                    67< /
                                                             2       1

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7              /   <   2        / <         / -/8     2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          678        =    + 4           * 2 <    6       / 6
                        4              4       67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7              /   <   2        / <         / -/8     2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          7 /            2 <       6   / 6       4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2        / <         / -/8     2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          2<             2 <       6   / 6      4                4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+           7              /   <   2        / <         / -/8     2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          7 /            2 <       6   / 6       4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2        / <         / -/8     2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4               2         2 <       6   / 6       4               4
                    67< /
                                                                        2

<removed-date>
                    1
              22    2
              #
              #
<removed-apn>
              # #   '
              # +       -     2
              ##
              ##+              -/    4 /567     2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8            2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4          2<         2 <       6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+       7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8            2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4          2<         2 <       6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+       7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8            2    .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562       = "> 4        7 /        2 <          6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
                                                                2           ?

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .        6     2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678     =    + 4          * 2 <       6       / 6
                        4             4         67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .        6     2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            2          2 <   6    / 6        4                       4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .        6     2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678         2 <   6    / 6        4                       4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .        6     2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6   / 6            4                   4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2     / <         / -/8      2    .       6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           2<          2 <    6   / 6            4                   4
                                                                  2

<removed-date>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+       7               /   <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6   / 6           4             4
<removed-apn>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+       7               /   <   2    / <          / -/8   2      .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4            2          2 <   6    / 6       4                 4
                    67< /
              22    2
              #     ?
              #
              # #   '
              # +       -      2
              ##
              ##+              -/     4 /567     2    2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+        7              /   <   2     / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4       2<          2 <    6   / 6           4             4
                                                              2

<removed-date>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .     6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           2<          2 <   6    / 6         4                       4
<removed-apn>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .     6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6       / 6         4                   4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .     6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678     =    + 4           * 2 <       6       / 6
                        4             4         67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /     <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .     6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            2          2 <   6    / 6         4                       4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <    2    / <         / -/8      2     .       6         2 <       # 4
                                                                  2        #

<removed-date>
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          678    =    + 4           * 2 <     6     / 6
                        4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2    .     6     2 <   # 4
<removed-apn>
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          7 /        2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2    .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          2<         2 <   6    / 6         4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+           7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2    .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          7 /        2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2    / <         / -/8     2    .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           2         2 <   6    / 6         4               4
                    67< /
                    ?
              22    2
                                                                2        +

<removed-date>
              #
              #
              # #    '
              # +            -   2
              ##
<removed-apn>
              ##+                   -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##     8       9- 2
              ###    :0;33:0;
              ##+            7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2    .      6         2 <       # 4
                     56/ 562        = "> 4           678     = ,# 4            * 2 <       6       / 6
                         4               4       67< /
              22     2
              #
              #
              # #    '
              # +            -   2
              ##
              ##+                   -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##     8       9- 2
              ###    : ;33: ;
               ##+           7               /   <   2     / <         / -/8    2      .       6         2 <   # 4
                                                                   2

<removed-date>
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,# 4             * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              22    2
<removed-apn>
              #     #
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,# 4             * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,# 4             * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
                    #
              22    2
                                                                  2

<removed-date>
              #     +
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <               / -/8   2    .      6         2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678     = ,           4       * 2 <       6       / 6
                        4               4       67< /
                    +
              22    2
              #
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2     / <             / -/8    2      .       6         2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562         = "> 4          678         = ,       4       * 2 <       6       / 6
                                                                      2       0

<removed-date>
                        4               4       67< /
              22    2
              #
<removed-apn>
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              22    2
              #      0
                                                                  2       1

<removed-date>
              #     #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567        2     2 2 7
<removed-apn>
                    0
              2     2                                                                                     #
              #     1
              #     #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567        2     2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <    2    / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            678     = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <    2    / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            678     = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4           67< /
                                                                    2

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2   .   6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    = ,        4       * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4               4       67< /
                    1
              2     2                                                                                   #
              #
              #
              # #   '
              # +           -   2
              ##
              ##+                  -/   4 /567      2     2 2 7
                                                                  2       ?

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       2<         2 <   6        / 6   4                 4
                    67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       2<         2 <   6        / 6   4                 4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       7 /        2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4       7 /        2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /   <   2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4        678       2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
                                                         2        #

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+       7           /       <   2   / <           / -/8      2       .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6       / 6           4             4
                    67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+       7           /       <   2   / <           / -/8      2       .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           2           2 <   6        / 6       4                 4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7           /       <   2   / <           / -/8      2       .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           2           2 <   6        / 6       4                 4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+       7           /       <   2   / <           / -/8      2       .       6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6       / 6           4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+        7              /   <   2     / <         / -/8          2   .       6   2 <       # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           678         2 <    6       / 6           4             4
                                                              2        #

<removed-date>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+       7           /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           678         2 <   6    / 6       4                 4
<removed-apn>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : #;33: #;
              ##+       7           /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           2<          2 <   6    / 6       4                 4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : +;33: +;
              ##+       7           /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+       7           /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562    = "> 4           7 /         2 <    6       / 6       4             4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:   ;
              ##+        7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8      2   .       6   2 <       # 4
                                                              2       ##

<removed-date>
                     56/ 562      = "> 4             678         2 <   6    / 6       4                4
                     67< /
              22           2
<removed-apn>
              #      ?
              #
              # #    '
              # +          -    2
              ##
              ##+                 -/   4 /567         2    2 2 7
              ##
              ##     8     9- 2
              ###    : ;33: ;
              ##+          7             /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6      4
                     56/ 562      =    # 4           56/ 56/ / 6 /2         = "> 4          2<         2 <       6
                     / 6        4                4         67< /
              ##
              ##     8     9- 2
              ###    :#;33:#;
              ##+          7             /       <   2    / <          / -/8     2    .   6      2 <   # 4
                     56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4          2<            2 <    6   / 6        4
                     4         67< /
              ##
              ##     8     9- 2
              ###    :+;33:+;
               ##+         7                 /   <    2    / <         / -/8      2   .     6    2 <       # 4
                                                                   2       #+

<removed-date>
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            7 /           2 <   6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
<removed-apn>
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            7 /           2 <   6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            678       2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            7 /           2 <   6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            2         2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
                                                           2     #

<removed-date>
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            2         2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
<removed-apn>
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            7 /           2 <   6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:    ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            678       2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:    ;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4            678       2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   : #;33: #;
              ##+       7            /   <   2   / <           / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2   = "> 4        2<            2 <       6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8    9- 2
                                                           2     #

<removed-date>
              ###   : +;33: +;
              ##+       7             /   <   2   / <         / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2     = "> 4           7 /      2 <      6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
<removed-apn>
              ###   :   ;33:    ;
              ##+       7             /   <   2   / <         / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2     = "> 4           7 /      2 <      6   / 6     4
                    4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8   9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:    ;
              ##+       7             /   <   2   / <         / -/8   2       .   6   2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2     = "> 4           678     2 <    6      / 6     4
                    4       67< /
                    ?
              22         2
              #     #
              #
              # #   '
              # +       -      2
              ##
              ##+               -/   4 /567   2   2 2 7
              ##
               ##   8    9- 2
                                                          2     #0

<removed-date>
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2   .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4         2<         2 <   6    / 6           4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
<removed-apn>
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+           7             /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2   .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4         2<         2 <   6    / 6           4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+           7             /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2   .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4         @ 8   6 7 7 /             =   + 4           * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4             4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2   .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4         @ 8   6 7 7 /             =   + 4           * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4             4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7             /   <   2    / <         / -/8        2   .     6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4         678    =    + 4           * 2 <       6     / 6
                        4             4       67< /
              ##
                                                               2       #1

<removed-date>
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8       2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           @ 8    67   7 /          =     + 4           * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4              4       67< /
              ##
<removed-apn>
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8       2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            2         2 <   6       / 6         4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8       2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4            2         2 <   6       / 6         4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+           7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8       2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           @ 8    67   7 /          =     + 4           * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <    2    / <         / -/8       2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    =    + 4           * 2 <      6       / 6
                        4              4           67< /
                                                                 2       #

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <    2   / <           / -/8        2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678    =      + 4          * 2 <       6       / 6
                        4              4       67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : #;33: #;
              ##+           7              /   <    2   / <           / -/8        2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4          2<         2 <     6    / 6             4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : +;33: +;
              ##+           7              /   <    2   / <           / -/8        2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           @ 8    67     7 /          =    + 4            * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <    2   / <           / -/8        2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           @ 8    67     7 /          =    + 4            * 2 <   6   / 6
                        4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <    2   / <           / -/8        2   .       6     2 <   # 4
                    56/ 562        = "> 4           678       =   + 4              * 2 <       6   / 6
                        4              4           67< /
                                                                  2       #?

<removed-date>
                    #
              22          2
              #     #
              #
<removed-apn>
              # #   '
              # +         -    2
              ##
              ##+                -/   4 /567         2   2 2 7
              ##
              ##    8     9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+         7             /    <       2   / <          / -/8   2      .       6         4
                    56/ 562      =    # 4        56/ 56/ / 6 /2             = "> 4           2<              2 <   6
                    / 6        4              4          67< /
              ##
              ##    8     9- 2
              ###   :#;33:#;
              ##+         7             /    <       2   / <          / -/8   2      .       6         2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4         2<           2 <    6     / 6               4
                    4         67< /
              ##
              ##    8     9- 2
              ###   :+;33:+;
              ##+         7             /    <       2   / <          / -/8   2      .       6         2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4             @ 8     6 7 7 /           =       + 4         * 2 <     6
                    / 6          4               4        67< /
                                                                  2     +

<removed-date>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7           /    <    2   / <            / -/8     2     .   6        2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2      = "> 4              @ 8      6 7 7 /         =    + 4           * 2 <     6
                    / 6         4             4       67< /
<removed-apn>
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7           /    <    2   / <            / -/8     2     .   6        2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2      = "> 4              678       =    + 4           * 2 <    6     / 6
                        4           4         67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :0;33:0;
              ##+           7           /    <    2   / <            / -/8     2     .   6        2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2      = "> 4              @ 8      67    7 /       =    + 4           * 2 <     6
                    / 6         4             4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :1;33:1;
              ##+           7           /    <    2   / <            / -/8     2     .   6        2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2      = "> 4              2              6   / 6        4               4
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : ;33: ;
              ##+           7           /    <    2   / <            / -/8     2     .    6       2 <    # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4           2             6   / 6            4               4
                                                                 2     +

<removed-date>
                    67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :?;33:?;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <            / -/8      2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4            @8       67    7 /       =   + 4         * 2 <    6
<removed-apn>
                    / 6          4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <            / -/8      2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4            678       =        + 4       * 2 <   6     / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <            / -/8      2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4            678       =        + 4       * 2 <   6     / 6
                        4               4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : #;33: #;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <            / -/8      2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2          = "> 4        2<                2 <    6   / 6         4
                    4           67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   : +;33: +;
              ##+           7               /   <   2   / <            / -/8       2   .     6     2 <    # 4
                                                                   2        +#

<removed-date>
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2         = "> 4            @ 8   67     7 /   =    + 4          * 2 <   6
                    / 6         4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2   / <         / -/8   2    .   6       2 <   # 4
<removed-apn>
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2         = "> 4            @ 8   67     7 /   =    + 4          * 2 <   6
                    / 6         4              4       67< /
              ##
              ##    8       9- 2
              ###   :   ;33:       ;
              ##+           7              /   <   2   / <         / -/8   2    .   6       2 <   # 4
                    56/ 56/ / 6 /2         = "> 4            678    =     + 4       * 2 <   6     / 6
                        4              4       67< /
                    #
              22            2
                                                               2     ++

