                                           ABSTRACT
   Described are immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety, comprising at least an
   immunoglobulin variable region that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex
 5 preferentially associated with aberrant cells. These immunoglobulins provided with a toxic
   moiety are preferably used in selectively modulating biological processes. The provided
   immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety are of particular use in pharmaceutical
   compositions for the treatment of diseases related to cellular aberrancies, such as cancers and
   autoimmune diseases.
10
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                    1
                             ABERRANT CELL-RESTRICTED IMMUNOGLOBULINS
                                     PROVIDED WITH A TOXIC MOIETY
   The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent Application
 5 No. 2013208364 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The invention relates to the field of biotherapeutics. More specifically, the invention relates
   to immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety. Even more specifically, the invention
   relates to human antibodies. The invention also relates to the use of these biotherapeutics in
10 the treatment of a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells, such as cancers
   and autoimmune diseases.
   BACKGROUND
   The development of immunoglobulin-drug conjugates is one of the drug development fields
   that receives high attention nowadays. Humanized or human antibodies are the largest and
15 most important class of immunoglobulins under investigation for use in antibody-drug
   conjugates (ADCs) and in immunotoxins and antibody-radionuclide conjugates. These
   antibodies target binding sites (over)expressed at aberrant cells, such as those exposed in
   cancers and (auto)immune diseases, and during infections. Many of the conjugates have a
   limited degree of efficacy. For example, the maximum tolerated dose of immunotoxins is
20 relatively low due to their toxicity towards healthy tissue. Lowering the dose is one way of
   protecting healthy cells for the non-specific toxic activity of the toxin or the drug in ADCs.
   Lowering the dose, however, hampers the delivery of an efficacious amount of conjugate at
   the site of for example a tumor. The unwanted side reactions are mainly due to the targeting
   of the antibodies to binding sites that are not exclusively exposed by aberrant cells but also to
25 some extent by healthy cells. Thus, insufficient specificity for aberrant cells over healthy
   cells hampers desired efficacy and hampers obtaining the desired safety profiles of the
   nowadays immunoglobulin-drug conjugates.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                        2
   Toxic moieties currently in the clinic or under investigation are numerous and diverse [6].
   Amongst the first toxins that were chemically linked to murine antibodies are plant derived
   protein toxins and bacterial toxins such as saporin, Diphtheria toxin, Pseudomonas exotoxin,
   gelonin, ricin, ricin A chain, abrin and pokeweed antiviral protein. Other immunoglobulins
 5 provided with a toxin moiety comprise single chain Fv fused at the DNA level with toxins.
   An example is the recombinant protein BL22 consisting of the Fv portion of an anti-human
   CD22 antibody fused to a fragment of Pseudomonas exotoxin-A, that targets B-cell
   malignancies such as hairy cell leukemia and non-Hodgkin' s lymphoma. Other examples of
   immunoglobulins conjugated to toxins are the antibody-radionuclide conjugates. Human
10 CD20 has been chosen by drug developers as the target for two monoclonal antibodies,
   conjugated with 90-Yttrium or with 131-Iodine, for treatment of non-Hodgkin' s lymphomas.
   In attempts to improve the tumor selectivity of certain drugs, murine monoclonal antibodies
   were conjugated to compounds such as doxorubicin, vinblastine, methotrexate, providing so
   called antibody-drug conjugates. Insufficient tumor cell specificity however still limited the
15 therapeutic usefulness. Even when selecting tumor cell surface antigens that are (highly)
   over-expressed at aberrant cells, still the low expression levels at healthy cells gives rise to
   insufficient selectivity of the antibody-drug conjugates. Current cytotoxic anti-tumor drugs
   under investigation are for example maytansinoids and dolastatin analogs, that both target
   intracellular tubulin, and duocarmycins and calicheamicins, that target DNA structure. These
20 compounds are potent in their cytotoxic activtiy, though not selective for aberrant cells.
   Antibiotic calicheamicin conjugated to an anti-human CD33 monoclonal antibody was
   approved and used in the clinic, but was withdrawn due to serious side effects. Additional
   examples of drugs currently under investigation for their potential beneficial use in antibody
   drug conjugates meant for the treatment of cellular aberrancies are ozogamicin, hydrazone
25 calicheamicin, vedotin, emtansine, mertansine. These toxic moieties are conjugated to
   immunoglobulins targeting cell surface markers expressed at tumor cells, though also
   expressed to some extent at healthy cells. Typical examples of immunoglobulin-drug
   conjugate-targeted cell surface markers present at both tumor cells and healthy cells are
   CD19,          CD20,             CD22, CD25, CD30, CD33, CD56, CD70,   HER2/neu.     All   these
30 immunoglobulin-drug conjugate development programs thus inherently bear the risk for
   unacceptable safety profiles and consequent poor efficacy due to low maximum tolerated
   doses. Conjugating drugs, radionuclides or toxins to immunoglobulins specifically and
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   3
   selectively targeting aberrant cells and not targeting healthy cells would thus provide for
   therapies with improved specificity and selectivity for aberrant cells and with an improved
   safety profile.
 5 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
   Specific and selective delivery of a toxic moiety in target aberrant cells demands for binding
   molecules specific for binding sites preferentially associated with aberrant cells. These
   binding molecules then are used as carriers and transporters of the toxic moieties, specifically
10 and selectively delivering the toxic moieties at and in the aberrant cells. We here disclose
   immunoglobulin-drug conjugates comprising these preferred features. The immunoglobulins
   in the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the invention comprise immunoglobulin binding
   regions with improved selectivity for aberrant cells by specifically binding to binding sites
   preferentially associated with these aberrant cells. We disclose as preferred targets for the
15 antibody of the invention, intracellular proteins that are associated with aberrant cells. These
   proteins are available as peptides presented by MHC on the surface of aberrant cells. The use
   of MHC-peptide complexes as targets opens us a new field of tumor targets, because so far
   typically targets associated with the surface of aberrant cells have been envisaged. Although
   it is preferred that the target is specific for aberrant cells (tumor cells) in many cases
20 upregulated intracellular proteins are also suitable for at least improving the therapeutic
   window of immunotoxins. Our most preferred targets are peptides derived from MAGE
   presented in the context of MHC-1. In particular MAGE peptides that are present in more
   than one MAGE protein (multi-MAGE epitope; see W02012/091564 incorporated herein by
   reference). The toxic moiety according to the invention is preferably a drug compound, a
25 radionuclide or a toxin. The toxic moiety according to the invention is a non-proteinaceous
   molecule or a proteinaceous molecule. In the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the
   invention, the toxic moiety is preferably conjugated by chemical conjugation. Also preferred
   are immunoglobulins of the invention fused at the DNA level to a proteinaceous toxic
   moiety.
30 The immunoglobulins in the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the invention are suitable
   for the specific and selective localization of a toxic effect inside targeted aberrant cells,
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                           4
   leaving healthy cells essentially unaffected. Immunoglobulins comprise immunoglobulin
   binding           domains,         referred  to as immunoglobulin  variable domains,   comprising
   immunoglobulin variable regions. Maturation of immunoglobulin variable regions results in
   variable domains adapted for specific binding to a target binding site. Immunoglobulins are
 5 therefore particularly suitable for providing the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the
   invention with the ability to specifically and selectively target aberrant cells. At their surface,
   aberrant cells present aberrant cell-associated antigen peptides in the context of major
   histocompatibility                complex   (MHC).  Therefore, for the  immunoglobulins    in   the
   immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the invention, aberrant cell-associated MHC-1 peptide
10 complexes are a preferred target on aberrant cells. In addition, aberrant cell-associated MHC
   2 peptide complexes are valuable targets on e.g. tumors of hematopoietic origin, for the
   immunoglobulins in the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the invention. The present
   invention therefore provides immunoglobulins in immunoglobulin-drug conjugates, with
   improved specificity and selectivity for aberrant cells by targeting MHC-peptide complexes
15 which are preferentially associated with aberrant cells. This improved specificity and
   selectivity for aberrant cells is accompanied with a reduced level of unintentional targeting of
   healthy cells by the immunoglobulins in the immunoglobulin-drug conjugates of the
   invention. Most preferably, healthy cells are not targeted by the immunoglobulin-drug
   conjugates of the invention. Thus, in a first embodiment the invention provides an
20 immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety, comprising at least an immunoglobulin
   variable region that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex preferentially associated
   with aberrant cells. Preferred immunoglobulins of the invention are antibodies, but fragments
   and/or derivatives such as Fab and/or ScFv can also be used. Even more preferred
   immunoglobulins of the invention are antibodies of the immunoglobulin G (IgG) type. Other
25 immunoglobulins of the invention are for example heavy-chain (only) antibodies comprising
   Vh or Vhh and IgA, and their fragments such as Fab fragments, and Fab fragments of IgG' s.
   Immunoglobulins bind via their immunoglobulin variable regions to binding sites on
   molecules, such as epitopes, with a higher binding affinity than background interactions
   between molecules. In the context of the invention, background interactions are typically
30 interactions with an affinity lower than a KD of 10E-4 M. Immunoglobulin variable domains
   in light chains (VI) and immunoglobulin variable domains in heavy chains (Vh) of antibodies
   typically comprise the aberrant-cell specific immunoglobulin variable regions of the
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   5
   invention. Thus, in one embodiment the invention provides an immunoglobulin provided
   with a toxic moiety, comprising at least an immunoglobulin variable region, wherein said
   immunoglobulin variable region is a Vh(h) that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide
   complex preferentially associated with aberrant cells. Thus, in yet another embodiment the
 5 invention also provides an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety, comprising at least
   an immunoglobulin variable region, wherein said immunoglobulin variable region is a Vh
   that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex preferentially associated with aberrant
   cells, and wherein said immunoglobulin variable region further comprises a V1.
   As said, immunoglobulins G are particularly suitable binding molecules for use in therapies
10 specifically and selectively targeting aberrant cells, for site-specific delivery of a toxic
   moiety according to the invention. Because the anticipated predominant use of the antibodies
   of the invention is in therapeutic treatment regimes meant for the human body, in a particular
   embodiment of the invention, the immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety have an
   amino-acid sequence of human origin. Thus, in one embodiment the invention provides a
15 human IgG provided with a toxic moiety, comprising at least an immunoglobulin variable
   region, wherein said immunoglobulin variable region is a Vh that specifically binds to an
   MHC-peptide complex preferentially associated with aberrant cells, and wherein said
   immunoglobulin variable region further comprises a V1. Of course, humanized antibodies,
   with the precursor antibodies encompassing amino acid sequences originating from other
20 species than human, are also part of the invention. Also part of the invention are chimeric
   antibodies, comprising (parts of) an immunoglobulin variable region according to the
   invention originating from a species other than human, and grafted onto a human antibody.
   An aberrant cell is defined as a cell that deviates from its healthy normal counterparts.
25 Aberrant cells are for example tumor cells, cells invaded by a pathogen such as a virus, and
   autoimmune cells.
   Thus, in one embodiment the invention provides an immunoglobulin according to any of the
   aforementioned embodiments wherein the MHC-peptide complex is specific for aberrant
30 cells.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                                6
   In the molecules of the invention the toxic moieties are preferably chemically linked to the
   immunoglobulins via any linker chemistry know in the art, and optionally via an additional
   spacer. According to the invention, one or several, preferably two to six toxic moiety
   molecules are chemically linked to an immunoglobulin molecule of the invention. The
 5 number of conjugated toxic moiety molecules per single immunoglobulin molecule is
   restricted by boundaries such as the number of available sites for conjugation on the
   immunoglobulin, the stability of the conjugate, the preservation of the ability of the
   immunoglobulin to specifically bind to an aberrant cell, etc. Of course, also two, three, etc.
   different toxic moieties can be linked to an immunoglobulin, depending amongst others on
10 available binding sites and the applied linker chemistry. Chemical linking of the toxic
   moieties has several advantages when working with immunoglobulins. This way, toxic
   moieties           cannot interfere          with expression, folding, assembly  and secretion  of the
   immunoglobulin                    molecules.   Thus, in   one  embodiment the   invention provides  an
   immunoglobulin according to any of the aforementioned embodiments wherein the toxic
15 moiety is chemically linked to the immunoglobulin. It is then also part of the current
   invention that toxic moieties are covalently bound via peptide bonds, and preferably via a
   peptide linker, to the immunoglobulins of the invention. The toxic moiety and the
   immunoglobulin are then fused at the DNA level. Thus, in one embodiment the invention
   provides an immunoglobulin according to any of the aforementioned embodiments wherein
20 the toxic moiety is a protein, preferably fused to the immunoglobulin at the DNA level,
   preferably through a linker sequence. In many instances a simple Gly-Ser linker of 4-15
   amino-acid residues may suffice, but if greater flexibility between the immunoglobulin and
   the toxic moiety is desired longer or more complex linkers may be used. Preferred linkers are
   (Gly 4Ser)n,
25 (GlySerThrSerGlySer)n,GlySerThrSerGlySerGlyLysProGlySerGlyGluGlySerThrLysGly,
   GlyPheAlaLysThrThrAlaProSerValTyrProLeuAlaProValLeuGluSerSerGlySerGly                          or  any
   other linker that provides flexibility allowing protein folding, stability against undesired
   proteolytic activity and flexibility for the immunoglobulins of the invention to exert their
   activity. Another group of preferred linkers are linkers based on hinge regions of
30 immunoglobulins. These linkers tend to be quite flexible and quite resistant to proteases. The
   most preferred linkers based on hinge regions are GluProLysSerCysAspLysThrHisThr
   (linking Chl and Ch2 in IgGI), GluLeuLysThrProLeuGlyAspThrThrHisThr                        (IgG3), and
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                           7
   GluSerLysTyrGlyProPro (IgG4). Thus, the role of any applied chemical linker in conjugates
   according to the invention or the role of any applied peptide linker in fused molecules
   according to the invention is aiding the dual activity of the antibodies of the invention, i.e.
   specific and selective binding of the immunoglobulin to aberrant cells, and subsequent
 5 delivery of at least the toxic moiety in the targeted aberrant cells. Thus, in one embodiment
   the invention provides the use of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according
   to any of the aforementioned embodiments, for the treatment of a host suffering from a
   disease associated with aberrant cells. In a further embodiment the invention provides the use
   of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of the aforementioned
10 embodiments, for the treatment of a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant
   cells wherein at least the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cell. According to the
   invention, the immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety are for example used for the
   treatment of cancer.                 Thus, in a preferred embodiment the    invention provides an
   immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of the aforementioned
15 embodiments for use in the treatment of cancer.
   Preferred toxic moieties according to the invention are numerous. Several examples of
   preferred toxic moieties according to the invention are drugs such as doxorubicin, cisplatin,
   carboplatin,              vinblastine,  methotrexate, chelated radioactive metal   ions, (synthetic)
   antineoplastic agents such as monomethyl auristatin E, radioactive iodine, radionuclides such
20 as 90-Yttrium, 131-Iodine, to name a few, which are chemically conjugated to the
   immunoglobulins of the invention. Also preferred toxic moieties according to the invention
   are proteinaceous toxins such as a fragment of Pseudomonas exotoxin-A, statins, ricin A,
   gelonin, saporin, interleukin-2, interleukin-12, viral proteins E4orf4, apoptin and NS1, and
   non-viral proteins HAMLET, TRAIL and mda-7. Thus, in one embodiment of the invention,
25 antibodies are provided for the specific targeting of aberrant cells, wherein the toxic moiety is
   selected from the list of available toxic moieties comprising toxins such as a fragment of
   Pseudomonas exotoxin-A, statins, chelated radioactive metal ions, radioactive iodine, ricin A,
   gelonin, saporin, interleukin-2, interleukin-12, radionuclides such as 90-Yttrium, 131-Iodine,
   drugs such as doxorubicin, taxol or derivatives, 5-FU, anthracyclines, vinca alkaloids,
30 calicheamicins, cisplatin, carboplatin, vinblastine, methotrexate, (synthetic) antineoplastic
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                               8
   agents such as monomethyl auristatin E, apoptin, parvovirus-HI NS1 protein, E4orf4,
   TRAIL, mda-7, HAMLET.
   According to the invention proteinaceous molecules are molecules comprising at least a
 5 string of amino acid residues. In addition, according to the invention the proteinaceous
   molecules may comprise carbohydrates, disulphide bonds, phosphorylations, sulphatations,
   etc.
   When antibodies of the invention are designed to first bind to a target aberrant cell, followed
10 by internalization, the toxic moiety can then subsequently have its intracellular (cytotoxic)
   function, i.e. inducing apoptosis.
   For administration to subjects the antibodies of the invention must be formulated. Typically
   these antibodies will be given parenterally. For formulation simply water (saline) for
15 injection may suffice. For stability reasons more complex formulations may be necessary.
   The invention contemplates lyophilized compositions as well as liquid compositions,
   provided with the usual additives. Thus, in one embodiment the invention provides a
   pharmaceutical composition comprising an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety
   according to any of the aforementioned embodiments and suitable diluents and/or excipients.
20 The dosage of the antibodies of the invention must be established through animal studies,
   (cell-based) in vitro studies and clinical studies in so-called rising-dose experiments.
   Typically, the doses will be comparable with present day antibody dosages (at the molar
   level). Typically, such dosages are 3-15 mg/kg body weight, or 25-1000 mg per dose.
   In addition, especially in the more difficult to treat cellular aberrancies the first applications
25 of the antibodies of the invention will (at least initially) probably take place in combination
   with other treatments (standard care). Of course, the invention also provides antibodies for
   use in novel or first treatments of any malignancy accompanied by the occurrence of aberrant
   cells, for which current treatments are not efficient enough or for which currently no
   treatment options                   are available. Thus, for example the invention also provides a
30 pharmaceutical composition comprising an invented immunoglobulin provided with a toxic
   moiety and a conventional cytostatic and/or tumoricidal agent. Moreover, the current
   invention              also       provides  a   pharmaceutical composition comprising  an  invented
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                             9
   immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety for use in an adjuvant treatment of cancer.
   Thus, in one embodiment of the invention, an invented immunoglobulin provided with a
   toxic moiety for use in an adjuvant treatment of cancer is provided. Additionally, the current
   invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an invented invented
 5 immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety for use in a combination chemotherapy
   treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutical treatments that are combined with the
   pharmaceutical composition of the current invention are etoposide, paclitaxel, cisplatin,
   doxorubicin and methotrexate.
   The pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention will typically find their use in
10 the treatment of cancer, particularly in forms of cancer where the targets of the preferred
   antibodies of the invention (complexes of MHC and tumor-specific antigen peptides) are
   presented by the tumors. Table 1, for example, gives a list of tumors on which complexes of
   MHC and MAGE-A peptides have been found. It is easy using an antibody of the invention
   to identify tumors that present these target MHC-peptide complexes. This can be done in
15 vitro or in vivo (imaging).
   It is preferred that the cell-surface molecules comprising the binding sites for the antibodies
   of the invention are internalized into the targeted aberrant cell, together with the antibodies of
   the invention, or together with at least the toxic moiety of the antibodies of the invention. In a
20 particularly preferred embodiment of the invention the targeted aberrant cells go into
   apoptosis as a result of said internalization. Thus, in one embodiment the invention provides
   the use of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of the
   aforementioned embodiments, for the treatment of a host suffering from cancer, wherein at
   least the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cell.
25
   The        invention             of course also comprises   a nucleic acid molecule encoding   the
   immunoglobulin part of an antibody according to any of the embodiments of the invention,
   when the toxic moiety is chemically linked to the immunoglobulin in the antibody of the
   invention. Thus, the invention also comprises a nucleic acid molecule encoding an
30 immunoglobulin and a toxic moiety according to any of the embodiments of the invention,
   when the toxic moiety is fused to the immunoglobulin at the DNA level. These molecules
   according to the invention can be produced in prokaryotes or eukaryotes. The codon usage of
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                    10
   prokaryotes may be different from that in eukaryotes. The nucleic acids according to the
   invention can be adapted in these respects. Also, elements that are necessary for secretion
   may be added, as well as promoters, terminators, enhancers etc. Also, elements that are
   necessary and/or beneficial for the isolation and/or purification of the immunoglobulins of
 5 the invention or of the antibodies of the invention may be added. Typically, the nucleic acids
   according to the invention are provided in an expression vector suitable for the host in which
   they are to be produced. Choice of a production platform will depend on the size of the
   molecule, the expected issues around protein folding, whether amino-acid sequences are
   present in the immunoglobulin or in the antibody that require glycosylation, expected issues
10 around isolation and/or purification, etc. For example, the presence of disulfide bonds in
   immunoglobulins or proteinaceous toxins of the invention will typically guide the selection
   of the preferred production platform. Thus, typically nucleic acids according to the invention
   are adapted to the production and purification platform in which the immunoglobulins
   optionally with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the invention are to be produced. Thus, the
15 invention provides a vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding an immunoglobulin
   or an antibody of the invention. For stable expression in an eukaryote it is preferred that the
   nucleic acid encoding the immunoglobulin or the antibody of the invention is integrated in
   the host cell genome (at a suitable site that is not silenced). In one embodiment the invention
   therefore comprises: a vector comprising means for integrating the nucleic acid in the
20 genome of a host cell. The invention further comprises the host cell or the organism in which
   the nucleic acid molecule encoding for the immunoglobulin of the invention optionally with
   their fused proteinaceous toxins, is present and which is thus capable of producing the
   immunoglobulin optionally with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the invention. Thus, in a
   preferred embodiment the invention comprises a cell comprising a nucleic acid molecule
25 according to the invention, preferably integrated in its genome and/or a vector according to
   the invention, comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding an immunoglobulin optionally
   with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the invention.
   Included in the present invention is also a method for producing an immunoglobulin
30 optionally with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the invention, comprising culturing a cell
   according to the invention, comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding an immunoglobulin
   optionally with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the invention, preferably integrated in the
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                    11
   cell' s genome and/or a vector according to the invation, comprising a nucleic acid molecule
   encoding an immunoglobulin optionally with their fused proteinaceous toxins of the
   invention, allowing for expression of the immunoglobulin optionally with their fused
   proteinaceous toxins and separating the immunoglobulin optionally with their fused
 5 proteinaceous toxins from the culture.
   In one embodiment of the invention the immunoglobulin variable domains in the molecules
   of the invention target one binding site. Also according to the invention, bi-specific
   immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety are provided that are specifically binding to
10 two different binding sites associated with the cell surface of aberrant cells. By targeting with
   a single antibody of the invention two different binding sites on an aberrant cell such as a
   tumor cell, the risk that both targets are also jointly present on a healthy cell is significantly
   further diminished. The affinity of the antibodies of the invention for the two different target
   binding sites separately, preferably is designed such that K.. and Kog are very much skewed
15 towards binding to both different binding sites simultaneously. Thus, the specificity of the bi
   specific antibodies of the invention is increased by increasing their specificity for binding to
   two different binding sites associated with aberrant cells. Thus, in one embodiment of the
   invention, the antibody according to any of the previous embodiments is a hetero-dimeric bi
   specific immunoglobulin G or heavy-chain only antibody comprising two different but
20 complementary heavy chains. The two different but complementary heavy chains may then
   be dimerized through their respective Fc regions. Upon applying preferred pairing
   biochemistry, hetero-dimers are preferentially formed over homo-dimers. For example, two
   different but complementary heavy chains are subject to forced pairing upon applying the
   "knobs-into-holes" CH3 domain engineering technology as described [Ridgway et al.,
25 Protein Engineering, 1996 (ref. 14)]. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the two
   different immunoglobulin variable regions in the bi-specific immunoglobulins of the
   invention specifically bind to an MHC-peptide complex preferentially associated with
   aberrant cells.
30 Typical preferred antibodies of the invention are exemplified by the antibodies outlined in
   this section, in Figure 5B, and by the examples provided below and in the Examples section.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                     12
   Thus the invention provides an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to
   Figure 5B.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 5
   It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does
   not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
10 In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
   variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify
   the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
15
   One aspect of the invention relates to a method for providing the antibodies of the invention.
   As described herein above, it typically involves providing a nucleic acid construct encoding
   the desired immunoglobulin part of antibodies of the invention, or encoding the desired
   immunoglobulin fused to a proteinaceous toxic moiety. Said nucleic acid construct can be
20 introduced, preferably via a plasmid or expression vector, into a prokaryotic host cell and/or
   in a plant cell and/or in a eukaryotic host cell capable of expressing the construct. In one
   embodiment, a method of the invention to provide an immunoglobulin or to provide an
   immunoglobulin fused to a proteinaceous toxic moiety comprises the steps of providing a
   host cell with the nucleic acid(s) encoding said immunoglobulin or said immunoglobulin
25 fused to a proteinaceous toxic moiety, and allowing the expression of said nucleic acid(s) by
   said host cell.
   It is part of the invention that nucleic acids coding for selected (human) immunoglobulin
   Vh(h) domains according to any of the above embodiments are combined with nucleic acids
30 coding for human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domains, providing nucleic acid
   molecules of the invention encoding for a heavy chain of a human antibody. The human
   antibody heavy chain protein product of such a nucleic acid molecule of the invention, then
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   13
   may be hetero-dimerized with a universal human antibody light chain. It is also part of the
   invention that nucleic acids coding for (jointly) selected human immunoglobulin VI domains
   and Vh domains according to any of the above embodiments are combined with nucleic acids
   coding for a human immunoglobulin light chain constant domain and are combined with
 5 nucleic acids coding for human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domains, respectively,
   providing nucleic acid molecules of the invention encoding for a light chain and for a heavy
   chain of a human antibody. In yet another embodiment of the invention, the nucleic acids
   coding for the complementarity determining regions 1, 2 and 3 (CDR1, CDR2, CDR3),
   forming together the immunoglobulin variable region of a selected immunoglobulin Vh
10 domain and/or a selected immunoglobulin VI domain according to any of the above
   embodiments are combined with nucleic acids coding for human immunoglobulin Vh domain
   frame work regions and/or human immunoglobulin VI domain frame work regions,
   respectively, providing nucleic acid molecules of the invention encoding for a heavy chain
   variable domain (Vh) of a human antibody and/or encoding for a light chain variable domain
15 (VI) of a human antibody (A method known in the art as ' grafting' ). These nucleic acid
   molecules encoding for variable domains Vh and/or VI are, as part of the invention, then
   combined with nucleic acids coding for human immunoglobulin constant domains, providing
   a nucleic acid molecule encoding for a human antibody heavy chain and/or providing a
   nucleic acid molecule encoding for a human antibody light chain.
20
   According to the invention, immunoglobulins or immunoglobulins fused to a proteinaceous
   toxic moiety are for example expressed in plant cells, eukaryotic cells or in prokaryotic cells.
   Non-limited examples of suitable expression systems are tobacco plants, Pichia pastoris,
   Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Also cell-free recombinant protein production platforms are
25 suitable. Preferred host cells are bacteria, like for example bacterial strain BL21 or strain
   SEl, or mammalian host cells, more preferably human host cells. Suitable mammalian host
   cells include human embryonic kidney (HEK-293) cells, PerC6 cells or preferably Chinese
   hamster ovary (CHO) cells, which can be commercially obtained. Insect cells, such as S2 or
   S9 cells, may also be used using baculovirus or insect cell expression vectors, although they
30 are less suitable when the immunoglobulins or the fused immunoglobulins-toxic moiety
   molecules according to the invention include elements that involve glycosylation. The
   produced immunoglobulins or fused immunoglobulin-toxic moiety molecules according to
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                              14
   the invention can be extracted or isolated from the host cell or, if they are secreted, from the
   culture medium of the host cell. Thus, in one embodiment a method of the invention
   comprises providing a host cell with one or more nucleic                            acid(s) encoding said
   immunoglobulin or said fused immunoglobulin-toxic                        moiety molecule, allowing the
 5 expression of said nucleic acids by said host cell. In another preferred embodiment a method
   of the invention comprises providing a host cell with one or more nucleic acid(s) encoding
   two or more different immunoglobulins or two or more different fused immunoglobulin-toxic
   moiety molecules, allowing the expression of said nucleic acids by said host cell. For
   example,             in      one    embodiment,   nucleic  acids  encoding    for   a   so-called  universal
10 immunoglobulin light chain and nucleic acids encoding for two or more different
   immunoglobulin                    heavy  chains  are  provided,   enabling   isolation    of mono-specific
   immunoglobulins                    or  mono-specific   fused  immunoglobulin-toxic       moiety   molecules
   comprising homo-dimers                    of heavy    chains  and/or enabling     isolation   of bi-specific
   immunoglobulins or bi-specific fused immunoglobulin-toxic moiety molecules comprising
15 hetero-dimers of heavy chains, with all different heavy chains complexed with a universal
   light chain. Methods for the recombinant expression of (mammalian) proteins in a
   (mammalian) host cell are well known in the art.
   As said, it is preferred that the immunoglobulins of the invention are linked with the toxic
20 moieties via bonds and/or binding interactions other than peptide bonds. Methods for linking
   proteinaceous molecules such as immunoglobulins to other proteinaceous molecules or non
   proteinaceous molecules are numerous and well known to those skilled in the art of protein
   linkage chemistry. Protein linkage chemistry not based on peptide bonds can be based on
   covalent interactions and/or on non-covalent interactions. A typical example of linkage
25 chemistries applicable for linking toxic moieties to immunoglobulins of the invention are the
   various applications of the Universal Linkage System disclosed in patent applications
   W092/01699, W096/35696, W098/45304, W003040722.
   As will be clear, an antibody of the invention finds its use in many therapeutic applications
30 and non-therapeutic applications, e.g. diagnostics, or scientific applications. Antibodies of the
   invention, or more preferably the immunoglobulin part of the antibodies of the invention,
   suitable for diagnostic purposes are of particular use for monitoring the expression levels of
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   15
   molecules exposing binding sites on aberrant cells that are targeted by antibodies of the
   invention. In this way, it is monitored whether the therapy remains efficacious or whether
   other antibodies of the invention targeting one or two different binding sites on the aberrant
   cells should be applied instead. This is beneficial when the expression levels of the first or
 5 the first two targeted binding site(s) are below a certain threshold, whereas another or new
   binding sites (still) can serve as newly targeted binding sites for antibodies of the invention
   comprising the appropriate specific immunoglobulin variable regions for these alternative
   binding site(s). Antibodies of the invention may also be used for the detection of (circulating)
   tumor cells, and for the target-cell specific delivery of immune-stimulatory molecules. For
10 these later two uses, the sole immunoglobulins of the invention without the fused or
   conjugated toxic moiety may also be used.
   Provided herein is a method for inducing ex vivo or in vivo a modulating effect on a
   biological process in a target cell, comprising contacting said cell with an antibody of the
15 invention in an amount that is effective to induce the modulating effect. Preferably, the
   antibody of the invention is used for a modulating effect on a biological process of aberrant
   cells in a subject, more preferably a human subject. For therapeutic applications in humans it
   is of course preferred that an antibody of the invention does not contain amino acid
   sequences of non-human origin. More preferred are antibodies of the invention, which only
20 contain human amino acid sequences. Therefore, a therapeutically effective amount of an
   antibody of the invention capable of recognizing and binding to one or two disease-specific
   binding sites and subsequently inducing a modulating effect on a biological process in the
   cell, can be administered to a patient to stimulate eradication of aberrant cells expressing the
   binding site(s) without affecting the viability of (normal) cells not expressing said disease
25 specific binding site(s). The specific killing of aberrant cells while minimizing or even
   avoiding the deterioration or even death of healthy cells will generally improve the
   therapeutic outcome of a patient after administration of the antibodies of the invention.
   Accordingly, also provided is the use of an antibody of the invention as medicament. In
   another aspect, the invention provides the use of an antibody of the invention for the
30 manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of cancer, autoimmune disease, infection or
   any other disease of which the symptoms are reduced upon targeting aberrant cells
   expressing disease-specific binding sites with antibodies of the invention. For example, an
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   16
   antibody of the invention is advantageously used for the manufacture of a medicament for the
   treatment of various cancers (e.g. solid tumors, hematologic malignancies).
   An example of a preferred antibody of the invention is an antibody comprising at least an
 5 immunoglobulin variable region specifically binding to the complex between MHC-1 HLA
   0201 and a multi-MAGE-A epitope, conjugated with a toxic moiety, using for example
   Universal Linkage System linker chemistry for conjugation. A second example of a preferred
   antibody of the invention is an antibody comprising at least an immunoglobulin variable
   region specifically binding to the complex between MHC-1 HLA-CW7 and a multi-MAGE
10 A epitope, conjugated with a toxic moiety, using for example Universal Linkage System
   linker chemistry for conjugation. With the bi-specific antibodies of the invention, difficult to
   target and/or difficult to reach aberrant cells have a higher chance of being ' hit' by at least
   one of the two different immunoglobulin variable regions in the bi-specific antibodies of the
   invention, thereby providing at least in part the therapeutic activity. An example of a
15 preferred bi-specific antibody of the invention is an immunoglobulin comprising an
   immunoglobulin variable region specific for the complex between MHC-1 HLA-0201 and a
   multi-MAGE-A epitope and comprising a second immunoglobulin variable region specific
   for the complex between MHC-1 HLA-CW7 and a second multi-MAGE-A epitope,
   conjugated with a toxic moiety.
20
   Antibody fragments of human origin can be isolated from large antibody repertoires
   displayed by phages. One aspect of the invention, known by the art, is the use of human
   antibody phage display libraries for the selection of human antibody fragments specific for a
   selected binding site, e.g. an epitope. Examples of such libraries are phage libraries
25 comprising human Vh repertoires, human Vh-Vl repertoires, human Vh-Chl or human
   antibody Fab fragment repertoires.
   Although the invention contemplates many different combinations of MHC and antigenic
   peptides the most preferred is the combination of MHC-1 and an antigenic peptide from a
   tumor related antigen presented by said MHC-1, exclusively expressed by aberrant cells and
30 not by healthy cells. Because of HLA restrictions, there are many combinations of MHC-1
   peptide complexes as well as of MHC-2 - peptide complexes that can be designed based on
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   17
   the rules for presentation of peptides in MHC. These rules include size limits on peptides that
   can be presented in the context of MHC, restriction sites that need to be present for
   processing of the antigen in the cell, anchor sites that need to be present on the peptide to be
   presented, etc. The exact rules differ for the different HLA classes and for the different MHC
 5 classes. We have found that MAGE derived peptides are very suitable for presentation in an
   MHC context. An MHC-1 presentable antigenic peptide with the sequence Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V
   P-G in MAGE-A [SEQ-ID 3] was identified, that is present in almost every MAGE-A variant
   (multi MAGE peptide) and that will be presented by one of the most prevalent MHC-1 alleles
   in the Caucasian population (namely HLA-A0201). A second MAGE peptide that is presented
10 by another MHC-1 allele (namely HLA-CW7) and that is present in many MAGE variants,
   like for example MAGE-A2, -A3, -A6 and -A12, is E-G-D-C-A-P-E-E-K [SEQ-ID 4]. These
   two combinations of MHC-1 and MAGE peptides together would cover 80% of the
   Caucasian population. The same approach can be followed for other MHC molecules, other
   HLA restrictions and other antigenic peptides derived from tumor-associated antigens.
15 Relevant is that the chosen antigenic peptide to elicit the response to must be presented in the
   context of an MHC molecule and recognized in that context only. Furthermore, the antigenic
   peptide must be derived from a sufficiently tumor specific antigen and the HLA restriction
   must occur in a relevant part of the population. One of the important advantages of the
   present invention is that tumors that down regulate their targeted MHC-peptide complex, can
20 be treated with a second immunoglobulin comprising at least one variable region binding to a
   different MHC-peptide complex based on the same antigen. If this one is down regulated a
   third one will be available. For heterozygotes six different targets on MHC-1 may be
   available. Since cells need to be "inspected" by the immune system from time to time, escape
   through down regulation of all MHC molecules does not seem a viable escape route. In the
25 case that MAGE is the antigen from which the peptide is derived escape through down
   regulation of the antigen is also not possible, because MAGE seems important for survival of
   the tumor [8]. Thus the present invention, in an important aspect reduces or even prevents
   escape of the tumor from the therapy. Thus the invention provides in a preferred embodiment
   an antibody of the invention whereby the immunoglobulin variable region is capable of
30 binding to an MHC-I - peptide complex. In a further preferred embodiment the invention
   provides an immunoglobulin whereby the immunoglobulin variable region is capable of
   binding to MHC-I - peptide complexes comprising an antigenic peptide derived from a
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                       18
   tumor related antigen, in particular MHC-I - peptide complexes comprising an antigenic
   peptide present in a variety of MAGE antigens, whereby the immunoglobulin is provided
   with a toxic moiety.
   Because in one embodiment the invention uses MHC molecules as a target, and individuals
 5 differ in the availability of MHC targets, the invention also provides a so-called companion
   diagnostic to determine the HLA composition of an individual. Although the invention
   preferably uses a more or less universal (MAGE) peptide, the invention also provides a
   diagnostic for determining the expression of the particular antigen by the tumor. In this
   manner           the therapy can be geared to the patient      (personalized medicine, patient
10 stratification),particularly also in the set-up to prevent escape as described herein before. It
   is known that the HLA restriction patterns of the Asian population and the black population
   are different from the Caucasian population. For different populations different MHC-peptide
   complexes can be targeted.
   Although the present specification presents more specific disclosure on tumors, it must be
15 understood that other aberrant cells can also be targeted by the antibodies of the present
   invention. These other aberrant cells are typically cells that also proliferate without sufficient
   control. This occurs in autoimmune diseases. It is typical that these cells start to show
   expression of tumor antigens. In particular MAGE polypeptides have been identified in
   rheumatoid arthritis [7].
20 In literature it is shown that a single nine amino-acid (A.A.) peptide present in MAGE-A2,
   A3, -A4, -A6, -A1O, and -A12 is presented by HLA-A0201 on tumor cells, and can be
   recognized by cytotoxic T-lymphocytes [1]. This nine amino acid residues peptide with
   sequence Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-G [SEQ-ID 3] is almost identical to the HLA-A0201 presented
   MAGE-Al                 peptide Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-D [SEQ-ID 5], except for the anchor residue at
25 position 9. Replacement of the anchor residue with Valine results in a 9 amino acid residues
   peptide with enhanced binding capacity to HLA-A0201 molecules [1]. Human and mouse T
   lymphocytes recognizing the Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-V [SEQ-ID 6] peptide presented by HLA
   0201 also recognize the original MAGE-A Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-G and Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-D
   peptides presented on tumors of distinct origin. As diverse tumors may each express at least
30 one MAGE-A gene, targeting of this so-called multi-MAGE-A epitope includes the vast
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                          19
   majority of tumors. As an example, MAGE-A expression in human prostate tumor cell lines
   and in human xenographs was analyzed and shown to be highly diverse, but in each
   individual sample tested at least one MAGE-A gene was expressed (Table 2), confirming that
   targeting this multi-MAGE-A epitope serves as a universal HLA-A0201 restricted target for
 5 therapy.
   Of course several other multi-MAGE or multi-target epitopes may be designed. In principle
   the invention contemplates combinations of tumor specific antigen derived MHC presented
   epitopes in different                HLA restrictions of both MHC-I and MHC-II,      targeted by
   immunoglobulins linked to a toxic moiety, to induce apoptosis in aberrant cells. Examples of
10 MHC - MAGE peptide combinations that can be targeted by antibodies of the invention are
   peptide          IMPKAGLLI            (MAGE-A3)    [SEQ-ID   8]  and    HLA-DP4 or  peptide  243
   KKLLTQHFVQENYLEY-258 (MAGE-A3) [SEQ-ID 9] and HLA-DQ6. Other non-limiting
   examples of tumor specific complexes of HLA and antigen peptide are: HLA Al - MAGE
   Al peptide EADPTGHSY [SEQ-ID 10], HLA A3 - MAGE-Al SLFRAVITK [SEQ-ID 11],
15 HLA          A24          -      MAGE-Al NYKHCFPEI       [SEQ-ID   12],   HLA A28  -   MAGE-Al
   EVYDGREHSA [SEQ-ID 13], HLA B37 - MAGE-A1/A2/A3/A6 REPVTKAEML [SEQ-ID
    14], expressed at aberrant cells related to melanoma, breast carcinoma, SCLC, sarcoma,
   NSCLC, colon carcinoma (Renkvist, N. et al., Cancer Immunol. Immunother. (2001) V50:3
    15 (ref. 13)). Further examples are HLA B53 - MAGE-Al DPARYEFLW [SEQ-ID 15],
20 HLA Cw2 - MAGE-Al SAFPTTINF [SEQ-ID 16], HLA Cw3 - MAGE-Al SAYGEPRKL
   [SEQ-ID 17], HLA Cw16 - MAGE-Al SAYGEPRKL [SEQ-ID 18], HLA A2 - MAGE A2
   KMVELVHFL [SEQ-ID 19], HLA A2 - MAGE-A2 YLQLVFGIEV [SEQ-ID 20], HLA
   A24 - MAGE-A2 EYLQLVFGI [SEQ-ID 21], HLA-Al - MAGE-A3 EADPIGHLY [SEQ
   ID 22], HLA A2 - MAGE-A3 FLWGPRALV [SEQ-ID 23], HLA B44 - MAGE-A3
25 MEVDPIGHLY [SEQ-ID 24], HLA B52 - MAGE-A3 WQYFFPVIF [SEQ-ID 25], HLA A2
   - MAGE-A4 GVYDGREHTV [SEQ-ID 26], HLA A34 - MAGE-A6 MVKISGGPR [SEQ
   ID 27], HLA A2 - MAGE-A1O GLYDGMEHL [SEQ-ID 28], HLA Cw7 - MAGE-A12
   VRIGHLYIL [SEQ-ID 29], HLA Cwl6 - BAGE AARAVFLAL [SEQ-ID 30], expressed by
   for example melanoma, bladder carcinoma, NSCLC, sarcoma, HLA A2 - DAM-6/-10
30 FLWGPRAYA [SEQ-ID 31], expressed by for example skin tumors, lung carcinoma, ovarian
   carcinoma, mammary carcinoma, HLA Cw6 - GAGE-1/-2/-8 YRPRPRRY [SEQ-ID 32],
   HLA A29 - GAGE-3/-4/-5/-6/-7B                   YYWPRPRRY [SEQ-ID 33], both expressed by for
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                           20
   example             melanoma,     leukemia    cells, bladder carcinoma, HLA B13  -   NA88-A
   MTQGQHFLQKV [SEQ-ID                      34],   expressed by melanoma,  HLA A2 -   NY-ESO-1
   SLLMWITQCFL [SEQ-ID 35], HLA A2 - NY-ESO-la SLLMWITQC [SEQ-ID 36], HLA
   A2 - NY-ESO-la QLSLLMWIT [SEQ-ID 37], HLA A31 - NY-ESO-la ASGPGGGAPR
 5 [SEQ-ID 38], the latter four expressed by for example melanoma, sarcoma, B-lymphomas,
   prostate carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, bladder carcinoma.
   The invention is further exemplified by the non-limiting Examples provided below.
10 Abbreviations used
   A.A., amino acid; Ab, antibody; p2-M, CDR, complementarity determining region; CHO,
   Chinese hamster ovary; CT, cancer testis antigens; CTL, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte; E4orf4,
   adenovirus early region 4 open reading frame; EBV, Epstein-Barr virus; ELISA, enzyme
   linked immunosorbent assay; HAMLET, human a-lactalbumin made lethal to tumor cells;
15 HEK, human embryonic kidney; HLA, human leukocyte antigen; Ig, immunoglobulin; i.v.,
   intravenously; kDa, kilo Dalton; MAGE, melanoma-associated antigen; Mda-7, melanoma
   differentiation-associated gene-7; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; MHC-p, MHC
   peptide; NS1, parvovirus-Hi derived non-structural protein 1; PBSM, PBS containing 2%
   non-fat dry milk; TCR, T-cell receptor; VH, Vh or VH, amino-acid sequence of an
20 immunoglobulin variable heavy domain; VI, amino-acid sequence of an immunoglobulin
   variable light domain; TRAIL, tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   21
   Examples.
   EXAMPLE 1
 5 Non-exhaustive examples of immunoglobulins of the invention comprising at least an
   immunoglobulin variable region that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex
   preferentially associated with aberrant cells or to an aberrant cell surface marker
   preferentially associated with aberrant cells, with domain topologies as outlined for example
   in Figure 5B, are:
10
   Antibodies of the invention comprising immunoglobulin variable regions that specifically
   bind to
          a. a complex comprising a T-cell epitope selected from 146-KLQCVDLHV-154 [SEQ
15              ID 74], 141-FLTPKKLQCV-150 [SEQ-ID 75], 154-VISNDVCAQV-163 [SEQ-ID
                76], 154-YISNDVCAQV-163      [SEQ-ID 77] of PSA, presented by HLA-A2 and/or
                162-QVHPQKVTK-170 [SEQ-ID 78] of PSA, presented by HLA-A3, and/or 152
                CYASGWGSI-160 [SEQ-ID 79], 248-HYRKWIKDTI-257 [SEQ-ID 80] of PSA,
                presented by HLA-A24, and/or 4-LLHETDSAV-12 [SEQ-ID 81], 711-ALFDIESKV
20              719 [SEQ-ID 82], 27-VLAGGFFLL-35 [SEQ-ID 83] of PSMA, presented by HLA
                A2, and/or 178-NYARTEDFF-186 [SEQ-ID 84], 227-LYSDPADYF-235 [SEQ-ID
                85], 624-TYSVSFDSL-632 [SEQ-ID 86] of PSMA, presented by HLA-A24, and/or
                299-ALDVYNGLL-307 [SEQ-ID 87] of PAP, presented by HLA-A2 and/or 213
                LYCESVHNF-221 [SEQ-ID 88] of PAP, presented by HLA-A24 and/or 199
25              GQDLFGIWSKVYDPL-213 [SEQ-ID 89], 228-TEDTMTKLRELSELS-242 [SEQ
                ID 90] of PAP, presented by MHC-2 and/or 14-ALQPGTALL-22 [SEQ-ID 91], 105
                AILALLPAL- 113 [SEQ-ID 92], 7-ALLMAGLAL-15 [SEQ-ID 93], 21
                LLCYSCKAQV-30 [SEQ-ID 94] of PSCA, presented by HLA-A2 and/or 155
                LLANGRMPTVLQCVN-169 [SEQ-ID 95] of Kallikrein 4, presented by
30              DRB1*0404 and/or 160-RMPTVLQCVNVSVVS-174 [SEQ-ID 96] of Kallikrein 4,
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                      22
                presented by DRB1*0701 and/or 125-SVSESDTIRSISIAS-139 [SEQ-ID 97] of
                Kallikerein 4, presented by DPB1*0401, for the treatment of prostate cancer;
         b. the HLA B8 restricted epitope from EBV nuclear antigen 3, FLRGRAYGL [SEQ-ID
                98], complexed with MHC I, for the clearance of EBV infected cells;
 5        c. the MAGE-A peptide YLEYRQVPG presented by MHC 1 HLA-A0201,                            for
                treatment of cancers accompanied by tumor cells expressing these MHC-peptide
                complexes (see Table 1);
          d. the MAGE-A peptide EGDCAPEEK presented by MHC-1 HLA-CW7, for treatment
                of cancers accompanied by tumor cells expressing these MHC-peptide complexes
10              (see Table 1);
          e.    complexes of HLA-A2 and HLA-A2 restricted CD8+ T-cell epitopes, e.g. nonamer
                peptides FLFLLFFWL [SEQ-ID 99] (from prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP, also
                prostatic specific acid phosphatase (PSAP))), TLMSAMTNL [SEQ-ID 100] (from
                PAP), ALDVYNGLL [SEQ-ID 101] (from PAP), human HLA-A2.1-restricted CTL
15              epitope ILLWQPIPV [SEQ-ID 102] (from PAP-3), six-transmembrane epithelial
                antigen of prostate (STEAP), or complexes of HLA-A2.1 and HLA-A2. 1-restricted
                CTL epitope LLLGTIHAL [SEQ-ID 103] (from STEAP-3), epitopes from mucin
                (MUC-1                    and                MUC-2),                   MUC-1-32mer
                (CHGVTSAPDTRPAPGSTAPPAHGVTSAPDTRPA [SEQ-ID 104]), epitopes from
20              Globo H, Lewisy, Tn(c), TF(c) clusters, GM2, prostate-specific membrane antigen
                (PSMA), kallikrein 4, prostein, or complexes of HLA-A2.1 and HLA-A2. 1-restricted
                epitopes from BA46, PTH-rP, HER-2/neu, hTERT, and MAGE-A8, for the treatment
                of prostate cancer;
          f. an aberrant cell specific epitope in aberrant cell-specific altered MUC-1 complexed
25              with MHC, or to an aberrant cell specific epitope in aberrant cell-specific altered
                MUC-1 for, the targeting of aberrant cells in for example breast cancer or for the
                treatment of colorectal cancer;
          g. an aberrant cell specific epitope of the aberrant-cell specific epidermal growth factor
                receptor mutant form VIll complexed with MHC, or to an aberrant cell specific
30              epitope of the epidermal growth factor receptor mutant form VIll, for the treatment of
                the brain neoplasm glioblastoma multiforme;
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                           23
         h. the complex of MHC with T-cell epitope peptide 369-376 from human Her-2/neu, for
                the treatment of malignancies related to Her-2 and/or Her-I over-expression;
          i.    an epitope of the aberrant-cell specific surface marker CD44 splice variants known as
                CD44-v6, CD44-v9, CD44-v 10, complexed with MHC, or to an aberrant cell specific
 5              epitope of an aberrant-cell specific CD44 splice variant, for the treatment of multiple
                myeloma;
   Target binding sites suitable for specific and selective targeting of infected aberrant cells by
   antibodies of the invention are pathogen-derived antigen peptides complexed with MHC
10 molecules. Examples of T-cell epitopes of the E6 and E7 protein of human papilloma virus,
   complexed with indicated HLA molecules, are provided below. Any combination of an HLA
   molecule complexed with a pathogen-derived T-cell epitope provides a specific target on
   infected aberrant cells for antibodies of the invention. An example of an infected aberrant cell
   is a keratinocyte in the cervix infected by human papilloma virus (HPV), presenting T-cell
15 epitopes derived from for example E6 or E7 protein, in the context of MHC. Examples of
   suitable target HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitopes are peptides FQDPQERPR [SEQ-ID 39],
   TTLEQQYNK [SEQ-ID 40], ISEYRHYCYS [SEQ-ID 41] and GTTLEQQYNK [SEQ-ID
   42] binding to HLA Al, KISEYRHYC [SEQ-ID 43] and YCYSIYGTTL [SEQ-ID 44]
   binding to HLA A2, LLRREVYDF [SEQ-ID 45] and IVYRDGNPY [SEQ-ID 46] binding to
20 HLA A3, TTLEQQYNK [SEQ-ID 47] binding to HLA All, CYSLYGTTL [SEQ-ID 48],
   KLPQLCTEL [SEQ-ID 49], HYCYSLYGT [SEQ-ID 50], LYGTTLEQQY [SEQ-ID 51],
   EVYDFAFRDL [SEQ-ID 52] and VYDFAFRDLC [SEQ-ID 53] binding to HLA A24, 29
   TIHDIILECV-38 [SEQ-ID 54] binding to HLA A*0201. Equally suitable are HPV 16 E7 T
   cell epitopes such as 86-TLGIVCPI-93 [SEQ-ID 55], 82-LLMGTLGIV-90 [SEQ-ID 56], 85
25 GTLGIVCPI-93 [SEQ-ID 57] and 86-TLGIVCPIC-94 [SEQ-ID 58] binding to HLA
   A*0201, HPV 18 E6 T-cell epitopes and HPV 18 E7 T-cell epitopes, binding to HLA Al,
   A2, A3, Al l or A24. Yet additional examples of T-cell epitopes related to HPV infected cells
   are        HPV            E7      derived  peptides  1-MHGDTPTLHEYD-12         [SEQ-ID     59],   48
   DRAHYNIVTFCCKCD-62                        [SEQ-ID 60] and 62-DSTLRLCVQSTHVD-75          [SEQ-ID 61]
30 binding to HLA DR, 7-TLHEYMLDL-15 [SEQ-ID 62], 11-YMLDLQPETT-20 [SEQ-ID
   63], 11-YMLDLQPET-19 [SEQ-ID 64] and 12-MLDLQPETT-20 [SEQ-ID 65] binding to
   HLA A*201, 16-QPETTDLYCY-25 [SEQ-ID 66], 44-QAEPDRAHY-52 [SEQ-ID 67] and
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                               24
   46-EPDRAHYNIV-55 [SEQ-ID 68] binding to HLA B18, 35-EDEIDGPAGQAEPDRA-50
   [SEQ-ID                           69]         binding           to         HLA          DQ2,           43
   GQAEPDRAHYNIVTFCCKCDSTLRLCVQSTHVDIR-77                                      [SEQ-ID 70] binding to HLA
   DR3,          50-AHYNIVTFCCKCD-62                     [SEQ-ID      71] binding   to   HLA    DR15,     58
 5 CCKCDSTLRLC-68                           [SEQ-ID    72]    binding     to     HLA     DR17     and     61
   CDSTLRLCVQSTHVDIRTLE-80 [SEQ-ID 73] binding to HLA-DRB1*0901.
   A good source for selecting binding sites suitable for specific and selective targeting of
   aberrant cells by antibodies of the invention, is the Peptide Database listing T-cell defined
10 tumor             antigens            and   the   HLA' s       binding    the   Tcell   epitopes    [9-12;
   www.cancerimmunity.org/peptidedatabase/Tcellepitopes.htm].                      The   database   provides
   combinations of antigen peptides complexed with MHC molecules comprising the indicated
   class of HLA, unique to tumor cells or over-expressed by tumor cells.
15 EXAMPLE 2: Selection of human antibody fragments specific for HLA-A0201/multi
   MAGE-A.
   To obtain human antibody fragments comprising immunoglobulin variable regions specific
   for the HLA-A0201 presented multi-MAGE-A epitope Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-V [SEQ-ID 6] and
20 FLWGPRALV [SEQ-ID 23] a Human Fab phage display library was constructed according to
   the procedure previously described by de Haard et al (2) and used for selections 1) essentially
   as described by Chames et al using biotinilated MHC/p complexes (3), or 2) on cells expressing
   the relevant antigen.
25 2.1: selection of human antibody fragments specific for HLA-A0201/YLEYRQVPV using
   biotinilated MHC-peptide complexes:
   Human Fab phages (1013 colony forming units) were first pre-incubated for 1 h at room
   temperature in PBS containing 2% non-fat dry milk (PBSM). In parallel, 200 pl Streptavidin
   coated beads (DynalTM) were equilibrated for 1 h in PBSM. For subsequent rounds, 100 pl
30 beads were used. To deplete for pan-MHC binders, each selection round, 200 nM of
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                            25
   biotinylated MHC class I-peptide (MHC-p) complexes containing an irrelevant peptide
   (Sanquin, the Netherlands) were added to the phages and incubated for 30 minutes under
   rotation. Equilibrated beads were added, and the mixture was incubated for 15 minutes under
   rotation. Beads were drawn to the side of the tube using magnetic force. To the depleted
 5 phage fraction, subsequently decreasing amounts of biotinylated MHC-p complexes (200 nM
   for the first round, and 20 nM for the second and third round) were added and incubated for 1
   h at room temperature, with continuous rotation. Simultaneously, a pan-MHC class I binding
   soluble Fab (D3) was added to the phage-MHC-p complex mixture (50, 10, and 5 pg for
   rounds 1-3 respectively). Equilibrated streptavidin-coated beads were added, and the mixture
10 was incubated for 15 minutes under rotation. Phages were selected by magnetic force. Non
   bound phages were removed by 5 washing steps with PBSM, 5 steps with PBS containing
   0.1% Tween, and 5 steps with PBS. Phages were eluted from the beads by 10 minutes
   incubation with 500 pl freshly prepared tri-ethylamine (100 mM). The pH of the solution was
   neutralized by the addition of 500 pl 1 M Tris (pH 7.5). The eluted phages were incubated
15 with logarithmic growing E. Coli TG1 cells (OD6 0 0 nm of 0.5) for 30 minutes at 37 C. Bacteria
   were grown overnight on 2x TYAG plates. Next day, colonies were harvested, and a 10 Pl
   inoculum was used in 50 ml 2x TYAG. Cells were grown until an OD600nm of 0.5, and 5 ml
   of this suspension was infected with M13k07 helper phage (5x10 1 1 colony forming units).
   After 30 minutes incubation at 37'C, the cells were centrifuged, resuspended in 25 ml 2x
20 TYAK, and grown overnight at 30'C. Phages were collected from the culture supernatant as
   described previously, and were used for the next round panning. After three selection rounds
   a 261-fold enrichment was obtained, and 46 out of 282 analyzed clones were shown to be
   specific for the HLA-A2-multi-MAGE-A complex (Figure 1). ELISA using the HLA
   A0201/multi-MAGE-A complexes as well as HLA-A0201 complexes with a peptide derived
25 from JC virus was used to determine the specificity of the selected Fab.
   2.2: Selection of human Fab specific for HLA-A0201/FLWGPRALV using cells.
   Selections of Fab-phages specifically binding to HLA-A0201/FLWGPRALV were performed using
   mouse         CMT64               lung tumor cells. To obtain CMT64 cells stably expressing HLA
30 A0201/FLWGPRALV (A2/FLW) complexes, the CMT64 cells were retroviral infected with a vector
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                      26
   encoding a single chain peptide-lI2M-HLA-A0201 heavy chain construct [SEQ ID 105]. Human Fab
   phages (1013 colony forming units) were first pre-incubated for 1 h at room temperature in PBS
   containing 2% FCS (PBSF). In parallel, 1.0x10 6 CMT64-A2/FLW cells were equilibrated for 1 h in
   PBSF. The phages were first incubated for one hour with 10x10 6 CMT 64 cells expressing HLA
 5 A0210/ YLEYRQVPG to deplete non-specifically binding phages. The non-bound fraction was then
   incubated (1 hr at 4 0C) with HLA-A0201/FLWGPRALV expressing CMT64 cells. After extensive
   washing, bound phages were eluted by adding 500 pl freshly prepared tri-ethylamine (100 mM). The
   pH of the solution was neutralized by the addition of 500 pl 1 M Tris (pH 7.5). The eluted phages
   were incubated with logarithmic growing E. Coli TG1 cells (OD 600 , of 0.5) for 30 minutes at 37'C.
10 Bacteria were grown overnight on 2x TYAG plates. Next day, colonies were harvested. After four
   rounds of selection individual clones were selected and tested for specificity of binding.
   2.3: Human Fab specific for HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A epitopes bind antigen positive
   cells.
15
   Multi-MAGE-A; Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-V
   Fab phages were analyzed for their capacity to bind HLA-A0201 positive EBV-transformed
   B-LCL loaded with the multi-MAGE-A peptide Y-L-E-Y-R-Q-V-P-V. The B-LCL line BSM
   (0.5x106) was loaded with multi-MAGE-A peptide (10 tg in 100 pl PBS) for 30 minutes at
20 37 C, followed by incubation with the Fab phages AH5, CBl, CGl, BD5 and BC7 and
   analyzed by flow-cytometry. As shown in Figure 2, Fab AH5, CBl and CGl, specifically
   bound to the peptide loaded cells only, whereas Fab BD5 and BC7 displayed non-specific
   binding to BSM that was not loaded with the multi-MAGE-A peptide. No binding was
   observed by AH5, CB1 and CG1 to non-peptide loaded cells.
25 Phages presenting AH5, CBl and CG1, as well as the HLA-AOO1/MAGE-Al specific Fab
   phage G8 (4) were then used to stain tumor cell lines of distinct histologic origin. To this end
   prostate cancer cells (LNCaP), multiple myeloma cells (MDN), melanoma cells (MZ2
   MEL43 and G43), and breast cancer cells (MDA-MB157) were stained and analyzed by flow
   cytometry (Figure 3). The Fab AH5 specifically bound multiple myeloma cells MDN, and
30 not the HLA-A0201 negative melanoma and breast cancer cells. Both CB1 and CG1
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                    27
   displayed non-specific binding on the melanoma cell line G43. The positive control Fab G8
   demonstrated binding to all cell lines tested.
   Multi-MAGE-A: F-L-W-G-P-R-A-L-V
 5 To determine the cell-binding capacity of the HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV selected Fab clone F9
   soluble Fab fragments were made by induction of TG-1 bacteria. TG-1 containing pCes-F9 were
   grown until OD=0,8 and Fab production was induced by addition of 1 mM IPTG. After 13 hours
   induction the bacterial periplasmic fraction was isolated and dialyzed overnight. Next day soluble
   Fab F9 fragments were purified by IMAC.
10 Purified Fab F9 was added to 0,5x106 CMT 64 cells expressing either HLA-A0210/ YLEYRQVPG,
   HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV, or CMT 64 cells that do not express human HLA. As shown in Figure
   6 the Fab clone F9 specifically binds HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV expressing CMT64 cells and not
   CMT 64 cells that do not express human HLA or that do express the irrelevant HLA-A0201/
   YLEYRQVPG molecules.
15
   2.4: Fab AH5 binds HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A complexes only.
   ELISA using multiple peptide/MHC complexes then confirmed the specificity of Fab-AH5.
   To this end HLA-A0201 complexes presenting peptides multi-MAGE-A, gplOO, JCV and
   MAGE-C2, as well as a HLA-A1/MAGE-Al complex were immobilized on 96 well plates
20 and incubated with phages displaying Fab AH5 and control Fab G8. As shown in Figure 4,
   AH5 only binds HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A and not the irrelevant complexes HLA
   A0201/gp100, HLA-A0201/MAGE-C2, HLA-A0201/JCV and HLA-A0101/MAGE-A1. The
   positive control Fab G8 only binds to its relevant target HLA-A0101/MAGE-A1.
   The nucleic acids encoding for the HLA-A0201 - multi-MAGE-A complex binding Fab AH5
25 will be combined with nucleic acids encoding for human antibody Ch2-Ch3 domains,
   providing nucleic acid molecules encoding for a human antibody light chain encompassing
   the selected Cl-Vl encoding nucleic acids and encoding for a human antibody heavy chain
   encompassing the selected Ch-Vh encoding nucleic acids. These nucleic acid molecules
   encoding the desired immunoglobulin will be introduced, via a plasmid or via an expression
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                          28
   vector, into a eukaryotic host cell such as a CHO cell. After expression of the
   immunoglobulin, it will be isolated from the cell culture and purified. Then, a selected toxic
   moiety will be linked to the immunoglobulin, for example using Universal Linkage System
   linker chemistry.
 5
   Example 3. Cell binding and internalization of an immunoglobulin provided with a
   toxic moiety.
   Binding capacity of an antibody of the invention is analyzed by flow-cytometry. For
   example, an antibody comprising immunoglobulin variable regions specific for complexes of
10 HLA-A0201                 and the multi-MAGE-A peptide is analysed. HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A
   positive tumor cells (Daju, MDN and mel 624) and HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A negative
   cells (BSM, G43 and 293) are incubated on ice with purified antibody and detected by
   addition of fluorescently labeled antibodies. Cells bound by the antibody are quantified and
   visualized             by flow-cytometry.  Internalisation of antibody is analysed by confocal
15 microscopy. To this end cells are incubated with the antibody, kept on ice for 30 minutes to
   allow binding but no internalization. Next, fluorescently labeled antibodies specific for the
   antibody are added. To induce internalization cells are transferred to 37'C and fixed with 1%
   PFA after 5, 10 and 15 minutes.
20 Example 4: Apoptosis induction by antibodies of the invention in diverse tumor cells.
   4.1: killing of diverse tumor cells by immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety.
   Antibodies of the invention are analyzed for their capacity to induce apoptosis by incubation
   with diverse tumor cells, known to express the antigens comprising the binding sites for the
25 immunoglobulin variable regions. For example, an antibody comprising immunoglobulin
   variable region VH specific for complexes of HLA-A0201 and the multi-MAGE-A peptide,
   AH5-BTX, is coupled to a synthetic HPMA polymer containing the BTX peptide and
   Doxorubicin (as we described in W02009131435) and analyzed. To this end antibodies of
   the invention coupled to doxorubicin are analyzed for their capacity to induce apoptosis by
30 incubation with diverse tumor cells known to express both HLA-A0201 and MAGE-A genes.
   The cell-lines Daju, Mel 624 (melanoma), PC346C (prostate cancer), and MDN (multiple
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                   29
   myeloma) as well as MAGE-A negative cells (911 and HEK293T) are incubated with
   different concentrations of the antibodies of the invention (in DMEM medium, supplemented
   with pen/strep, Glutamine and non-essential amino acids). Several hours later, cells are
   visually inspected for classical signs of apoptosis such as detachment of the cells from tissue
 5 culture plates and membrane blebbing. In addition, cells are stained for active caspase-3 to
   demonstrate apoptosis. It is excepted that the antibodies of the invention induce apoptosis in
   the Daju Mel 624, PC346C and MDN cells. Cells that are not treated with the antibodies of
   the invention are not affected, as well as cells that do not express HLA-A0201 (HEK293T)
   and MAGE-A genes (911 and HEK293T).
10 Another antibody, comprising Vh and VI domains (scFv) with specificity for complexes of
   HLA-AO1, presenting a MAGE-Al peptide was also analyzed. The scFv-BTX construct was
   coupled to the HPMA polymer containing doxorubicin and incubated with MAGE-Al
   positive and MAGE-Al negative cells. Apoptosis is shown by staining for active caspase-3.
   4.2: Detection of active caspase-3.
15 A classical intra-cellular hallmark for apoptosis is the presence of active caspase-3. To
   determine whether or not the antibodies of the invention induce active caspase-3, Daju,
   Me1624 and MDN cells are incubated with various concentrations of antibodies of the
   invention. After four and 13 hours FAM -DEVD-FMK, a fluorescently caspase-3/7 inhibitor,
   is added and positively stained cells are visualized by fluorescent microscopy and flow
20 cytometry. Caspase-3 activity is shown in antigen positive cells and not in antigen negative
   cells, with the (fragment of the) antigen providing the specific target-binding site for the
   antibodies of the invention.
   4.3 Treatment of tumor bearing mice with immunoglobulins provided with a toxic
   moiety.
25 Nude mice (NOD-scid, 8 per group) with a palpable subcutaneous transplantable human
   tumor (Daju or MDN) are injected with different doses of immunoglobulins provided with a
   toxic moiety. As a control mice are treated with standard chemotherapy or receive an
   injection with PBS. Mice receiving an optimal dose of the immunoglobulins provided with a
   toxic moiety survive significantly longer that those mice receiving chemotherapy or PBS,
30 when the aberrant cells expose the target binding sites for the antibodies of the invention.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                              30
   Example 5: selection of llama VHH with specificity for HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV and HLA
   A0201/ YLEYRQVPG.
   Selection of Llama VHH fragments with specificity for HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV (A2/FLW) and
 5 HLA-A0201/YLEYRQVPG (A2/YLE) were performed on CMT64 cells stably expressing these
   HLA/peptide complexes. Llama VHH phages (10" colony forming units) were first pre-incubated for
    1 h at room temperature in PBS containing 2% FCS (PBSF). In parallel, 1.0x10 6 CMT64-A2/FLW
   and 1.0x10 6 CMT64 A2/YLE cells were equilibrated for 1 h in PBSF. To deplete for non-specific
   binding phages 10x10 6 CMT 64 cells expressing either A2/FLW or A2/YLE were incubated for one
10 hour with the llama VHH. The non-bound fractions were then incubated (1 hr at 4C) with A2/FLW
   or A2/YLE expressing CMT64 cells. After extensive washing, bound phages were eluted by adding
   500 pl freshly prepared tri-ethylamine (100 mM). The pH of the solution was neutralized by the
   addition of 500 l 1 M Tris (pH 7.5). The eluted phages were incubated with logarithmic growing .
   Coli TG1 cells (OD 60 0           of 0.5) for 30 minutes at 37'C. Bacteria were grown overnight on 2x TYAG
15 plates. Next day, colonies were harvested. After four rounds of selection individual clones were
   selected and tested for specificity of binding.
    5.2: Llama VHH specific for HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A epitopes bind antigen positive cells.
20 To determine the cell-binding capacity of the A2/FLW and A2/YLE selected VHH soluble VHH
   fragments were made by induction of TG-1 bacteria. TG-1 containing pHen-VHH were grown until
   OD=0,8 and Fab production was induced by addition of 1 mM IPTG. After 13 hours induction the
   bacterial periplasmic fraction was isolated and dialyzed overnight. Next day soluble VHH fragments
   were purified by IMAC.
25 CMT 64 cells (0,5x10 6) expressing either HLA-A0210/YLEYRQVPG, HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV,
   or CMT 64 cells that do not express human HLA were incubated with purified VHH fragments for
   one hour at 4'C. As shown in Figure 7 the A2/FLW specific VHH bind HLA-A0201/ FLWGPRALV
   expressing CMT64 cells and not CMT 64 cells that do not express human HLA or that do express the
   irrelevant HLA-A0201/ YLEYRQVPG molecules. The A2/YLE specific VHH only bind HLA
30 A2/YLEYRQVPG expressing CMT64 cells and not A2/FLW positive CMT64 cells and CMT64 cells
   that do not express human HLA.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                        31
   References
    1. Stephanie Graff-Dubois, Olivier Faure, David-Alexandre Gross, Pedro Alves,Antonio
          Scardino,             Salem Chouaib, Francois A. Lemonnier  and Kostas  Kosmatopoulos.
          Generation of CTL Recognizing an HLA-A*0201-Restricted Epitope Shared by MAGE
 5       Al, -A2, -A3, -A4, -A6, -A1O, and -A12 Tumor Antigens: Implication in a Broad
          Spectrum Tumor Immunotherapy. The JournalofImmunology, 2002, 169: 575-580.
   2. Hans J. de Haard, Nicole van Neer, Anneke Reurs, Simon E. Hufton, Rob C. Roovers,
          Paula Henderikx,             Adriaan P.  de Brume, Jan-Willem Arends,  and Hennie    R.
          Hoogenboom. A Large Non-immunized Human Fab Fragment Phage Library That
10        Permits Rapid Isolation and Kinetic Analysis of High Affinity Antibodies. The Journalof
         Biological Chemistry. 1999, 274: 18218 -18230.
   3.     Chames P, Hoogenboom H.R, Henderikx P. Selection of antigens against biotinylated
          antigens. In Antibody phage display, methods and protocols, Edited by P.M. 0' Brien and
          R. Aitken. Methods in Molecular Biology 2002, 178:147-159.
15 4. Patrick Chames, Simon E. Hufton, Pierre G. Coulie, Barbara Uchanska-Ziegler, Hennie
         R. Hoogenboom. Direct selection of a human antibody fragment directed against the
         tumor T-cell epitope HLA-Al-MAGE-Al               from a nonimmunized phage-Fab library.
         PNAS, 2000. 97: 7969 -7974.
   5. H.M. Noteborn, Proteins selectively killing tumor cells. Eur. J Pharmacol., 2009. 625:
20        165-173.
   6. Teicher, B.A. & Chari, R.V.J., Antibody conjugate therapeutics: challenges and potential.
          Clin. CancerRes., 2011, 17(20):63 89-97.
   7. McCurdy DK, Tai LQ, Imfeld KL, Schwartz M, Zaldivar F, Berman MA, Expression of
          melanoma antigen gene by cells from inflamed joints in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, J
25       Rheumatol. 2002, 29:2219-2224.
   8. Marcar L, Maclaine NJ, Hupp TR, Meek DW, Mage-A cancer/testis antigens inhibit p53
          function by blocking its interaction with chromatin, CancerRes. 2010, 70:10362-10370.
   9. Van den Eynde B.J., van der Bruggen P., T cell-defined tumor antigens. Curr. Opin.
         Immunol. 1997; 9: 684-93.
30  10. Houghton A.N., Gold J.S., Blachere N.E., Immunity against cancer: lessons learned from
         melanoma. Curr. Opin. Immunol. 2001; 13: 134-40.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                             32
    11. van der Bruggen P., Zhang Y., Chaux P., Stroobant V., Panichelli C., Schultz E.S.,
          Chapiro J., Van den Eynde B.J., Brasseur F., Boon T., Tumor-specific shared antigenic
         peptides recognized by human T cells. Immunol. Rev. 2002; 188: 51-64.
    12. Parmiani G., De Filippo A., Novellino L., Castelli C., Unique human tumor antigens:
 5        immunobiology and use in clinical trials. J Immunol. 2007; 178: 1975-9.
    13. Renkvist, N., Castelli, C., Robbins, P.F., Parmiani, G., A listing of human tumor antigens
         recognized by T-cells, CancerImmunol. Immunother. 2001; 50: 3-15.
    14. Ridgway, J.B.B., Presta, L.G., Carter, P., 'Knobs-into-holes' engineering of antibody CH3
          domains for heavy chain heterodimerization ProteinEngineering, 1996; 9, no.7: 617-621.
10
            Table 1: Examples of the frequency of MAGE-A expression by human cancers.
                                         Frequency of expression (%)
   Cancer                            MAGE     MAGE       MAGE      MAGE MAGE    MAGE       MAGE
                                     -Al      -A2        -A3       -A4  -A6     -A10       -Al1
   Melanoma                          16       E          36        E    64      E          74
   Head and neck                     25       42         33        8    N       N          N
   Bladder                           21       30         35        33   15      N          9
   Breast                            6         19        10        13   5       N          N
   Colorectal                        N        5          5         N    5       N          N
   Lung                              21       30         46        11   8       N          N
   Gastric                           30       22         57        N    N       N          N
   Ovarian                           55       32         20        E    20      N          N
   Osteosarcoma                      62       75         62        12   62      N          N
   hepatocarcinom                    68       30         68        N    30      30         30
   a
   Renal                      cell   22        16        76        30   N       N          N
   carcinoma
   E, expressed but the frequency is not known; N, expression by tumors has never been
   observed
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                 33
Table 2: MAGE-A expression in human prostate cancer cell lines and prostate cancer
xenografts.
                                                     MAGE
Cell line /I                              -   5     as  A    A8     A9         |A1
XenograftA507
LNCaP                   +         ++ ++            ++   +
PC346C                  +         ++ ++ +          ++   +                   +      ++
OVCAR                                +  +          +                        +
JON                                  ++ ++         ++                       +      +
PNT2C2                               +  +          +                        +      +
SD48                                    +          +                        +      +
PC-3                                               +                        +      +
PC 374                            +
PC 346p                 +         ++ ++            ++               +              ++   +
PC 82                                +  +
PC 133                  ++        +                          +
PC 135                  +
PC 295                  +
PC 324                               +             +                +
PC 310                  +         ++    +          ++                                   +
PC339                             ++ ++     +      ++        +      +                   +
Expression of the MAGE-A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, A6 ,A7, A8, A9, A10, Al l and A12 genes in
diverse prostate tumor cell lines and prostate xenografts was analysed by RT-PCR. Shown
are expression levels in individual samples tested. Blank= no expression, + = low expression,
++    =   high expression.
All cell lines / xenografts express at least one MAGE-A gene.
9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                 34
   Figure legends
   Figure 1: Specific binding of HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A specific phage clones isolated
   from a large human non-immune antibody Fab phage library. Individual antibody Fab
 5 expressing phages that were selected against biotinylated HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A were
   analysed by ELISA for their capacity to bind the relevant peptide/MHC complex only.
   Streptavidin coated 96 well plates were incubated with soluble HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A
   (A2/multiMage) or HLA-A0201/JCV (A2/JC) peptide/MHC complexes (10              tg/ml), washed
   to remove non-bound complexes and incubated with individual phage clones. Non-binding
10 phages were first removed by three washes with PBS/Tween, followed by incubation with
   anti-M13 antibody (1 tg/ml, Amersham) for one hour by room temperature. Finally the wells
   were incubated with an HRP-labeled secondary antibody and bound phages detected.
   Figure 2: Phages AH5, CB1 and CG1 specifically bind cells presenting the multi
15 MAGE-A peptide. Phages AH5, CB1, CG1, BD5 and BC7 that had shown specific binding
   in ELISA using the relevant HLA-A201/multi-MAGE-A complex and an irrelevant HLA
   A201 complex loaded with a JCV peptide were analysed for their capacity to bind cells
   presenting the multi-MAGE-A peptide in HLA-A0201 molecules. To this end, human B
   LCL (BSM) were loaded with multi-MAGE-A peptide (10 pig in 100 pl PBS) for 30 minutes
20 at 37 C, followed by incubation with the Fab phages AH5, CB1, CG1, BD5 and BC7 and
   analyzed by flow-cytometry using anti-phage        antibodies and a fluorescently labeled
   secondary antibody.
   Figure 3: Phages expressing HLA-A2/multi-MAGE-A specific Fab bind tumor cells of
25 distinct histologic origin. Phages AH5, CB1 and CG1 specific for HLA-A0201/multi
   MAGE-A and a positive control phage specific for HA-0101/MAGE-Al               were used for
   staining of distinct tumor cell lines. To this end the prostate cancer cell line LNCaP, the
   multiple myeloma cell line MDN, the melanoma cell lines MZ2-MEL43 and G43, and the
   breast cancer cell line MDA-MD157 were incubated with the different phages (30 minutes at
30 4'C), bound phages were then detected by flow cytometry using anti-phage antibodies and
   fluorescently labeled secondary antibodies.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                 35
   Figure 4: Phage AH5 specifically binds HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A complexes only. To
   determine specificity of the phage AH5 an ELISA was performed using relevant and
   irrelevant peptide/MHC complexes. HLA-A0201 with multi-MAGE-A, gp100, JCV and
 5 MAGE-C2 peptides, as well as HLA-Al with MAGE-Al peptide were coated on streptavidin
   96 well plates and incubated with phage AH5.
   Figure 5: Cartoon displaying examples of preferred immunoglobulins provided with a
   toxic moiety, according to the invention.
10 A. Cartoon displaying the topology of the twelve immunoglobulin domains assembled in an
   immunoglobulin G. B. Examples are provided of preferred immunoglobulins provided with a
   toxic moiety, according to the invention. Shown are immunoglobulins provided with a single
   toxic moiety such as for example a cytostatic agent, linked to the immunoglobulin with a
   chemical linker (exemplified by I. and II.; immunoglobulin-toxic moiety conjugates), or
15 immunoglobulins provided with a single toxic moiety, linked to the immunoglobulin with a
   peptide linker (exemplified by III.; fused immunoglobulin-toxic moiety molecule). In IV., an
   immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety, according to the invention, is shown,
   comprising one immunoglobulin heavy chain comprising a fused proteinaceous toxic moiety,
   comprising immunoglobulin variable regions specific for a certain binding site, and
20 comprising a second immunoglobulin heavy chain comprising immunoglobulin variable
   regions specific for a different binding site. Of course, also part of the invention are bi
   specific immunoglobulins provided with a toxic moiety, according to the invention,
   comprising two heavy chains comprising different immunoglobulin variable regions specific
   for different binding sites and further comprising the same or different proteinaceous toxic
25 moieties fused two the heavy chains. Of course, as part of the invention, more than one, and
   typically two to six toxic moiety molecules can be fused or conjugated to an immunoglobulin
   molecule.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                    36
   Figure 6: Human Fab phage F9 specifically binds HLA-A2/ FLWGPRALV positive CMT64
   mouse lung tumor cells.
   Human Fab clone F9 was analysed for its capacity to bind mouse lung tumor cells (CMT64) stably
   expressing the HLA-A2/ FLWGPRALV complex. Purified Clone F9 Fab fragments (3 pg total) were
 5 incubated with 0,5x10 6 CMT64 cells that do not express human HLA, that express HLA
   A2/YLEYRQVPG or that express HLA-A2/ FLWGPRALV. After one hour incubation on ice
   CMT64 cells were incubated with a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and analysed by flow
   cytometry.
10 Figure 7: Llama VHH specifically binds CMT64 mouse lung tumor cells expressing human
   HLA-A2/multi-MAGE-A.
   Llama VHH specific for A2/FLW or A2/YLE were analysed by flow cytometry for their binding
   capacity to CMT64 cells expressing these human HLA-A0201/multi-MAGE-A complexes. Purified
   VHH fragments (3 jig total) were incubated with 0,5x 106 CMT64 cells, that do not express human
15 HLA, that express HLA-A2/YLEYRQVPG or that express HLA-A2/ FLWGPRALV. After one hour
   incubation on ice CMT64 cells were incubated with a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and
   analysed by flow cytometry.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                              37
   Sequence identifiers
   SEQ-ID 1. Amino acid sequence Vh AH5
   QLQLQESGGG VVQPGRSLRL SCAASGFTFS SYGMHWVRQA PGKEREGVAV
 5 ISYDGSNKYY ADSVKGRFTI SRDNSKNTLY LQMNSLRAED TAVYYCAGGS
   YYVPDYWGQG TLVTVSSGST SGS
   SEQ-ID 3. Amino acid sequence MHC-1 HLA-A0201 presentable peptide in MAGE-A
   YLEYRQVPG
10
   SEQ-ID 4. Amino acid sequence MHC-1 HLA-CW7 presentable peptide in MAGE-A
   EGDCAPEEK
   SEQ-ID 5. Amino acid sequence MHC-1 HLA-A0201 presentable peptide in MAGE-Al
15 YLEYRQVPD
   SEQ-ID 6. Amino acid sequence MHC-1 HLA-A0201 presentable peptide in MAGE-Al,
   with enhanced binding capacity for HLA-A0201
   YLEYRQVPV
20
   SEQ-ID 7. Amino acid sequence Vh binding domain 1 1H
   EVQLVQSGGG LVKPGGSLRL SCAASGFTFS DYYMSWIRQA PGKGLEWLSY
   ISSDGSTIYY ADSVKGRFTV SRDNAKNSLS LQMNSLRADD TAVYYCAVSP
   RGYYYYGLDL WGQGTTVTVS S
25
   SEQ-ID 8, amino acid sequence of MAGE-A3 peptide epitope binding to HLA
   IMPKAGLLI
   SEQ-ID 9, amino acid sequence of MAGE-A3 peptide epitope binding to HLA
30 KKLLTQHFVQENYLEY
   SEQ-ID 10, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                           38
   EADPTGHSY
   SEQ-ID 11, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   SLFRAVITK
 5
   SEQ-ID 12, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   NYKHCFPEI
   SEQ-ID 13, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
10 EVYDGREHSA
   SEQ-ID 14, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   REPVTKAEML
15 SEQ-ID 15, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   DPARYEFLW
   SEQ-ID 16 amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
    SAFPTTINF
20
   SEQ-ID 17, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   SAYGEPRKL
   SEQ-ID 18, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
25 SAYGEPRKL
   SEQ-ID 19, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   KMVELVHFL
30 SEQ-ID 20, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   YLQLVFGIEV
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                            39
   SEQ-ID 21, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   EYLQLVFGI
   SEQ-ID 22, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
 5 EADPIGHLY
   SEQ-ID 23, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   FLWGPRALV
10 SEQ-ID 24, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   MEVDPIGHLY
   SEQ-ID 25, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   WQYFFPVIF
15
   SEQ-ID 26, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   GVYDGREHTV
   SEQ-ID 27, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
20 MVKISGGPR
   SEQ-ID 28, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   GLYDGMEHL
25 SEQ-ID 29, amino acid sequence of MAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   VRIGHLYIL
   SEQ-ID 30, amino acid sequence of BAGE peptide epitope binding to HLA
   AARAVFLAL
30
   SEQ-ID 31, amino acid sequence of DAM-6 and DAM-10 peptide epitope binding to HLA
   FLWGPRAYA
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                             40
   SEQ-ID 32, amino acid sequence of GAGE-1/-2/-8 peptide epitope binding to HLA
   YRPRPRRY
 5 SEQ-ID 33, amino acid sequence of GAGE-3/-4/-5/-6/-7B peptide epitope binding to HLA
   YYWPRPRRY
   SEQ-ID 34, amino acid sequence of NA88-A peptide epitope binding to HLA
   MTQGQHFLQKV
10
   SEQ-ID 35, amino acid sequence of NY-ESO-1 peptide epitope binding to HLA
   SLLMWITQCFL
   SEQ-ID 36, amino acid sequence of NY-ESO-la peptide epitope binding to HLA
15 SLLMWITQC
   SEQ-ID 37, amino acid sequence of NY-ESO-la peptide epitope binding to HLA
   QLSLLMWIT
20 SEQ-ID 38, amino acid sequence of NY-ESO-la peptide epitope binding to HLA
   ASGPGGGAPR
   SEQ-ID 39, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA Al
   FQDPQERPR
25
   SEQ-ID 40, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA Al
   TTLEQQYNK
   SEQ-ID 41, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA Al
30 ISEYRHYCYS
   SEQ-ID 42, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA Al
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                             41
   GTTLEQQYNK
   SEQ-ID 43, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A2
   KISEYRHYC
 5
   SEQ-ID 44, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A2
   YCYSIYGTTL
   SEQ-ID 45, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A3
10 LLRREVYDF
   SEQ-ID 46, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A3
   IVYRDGNPY
15 SEQ-ID 47, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA All
   TTLEQQYNK
   SEQ-ID 48, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
   CYSLYGTTL
20
   SEQ-ID 49, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
   KLPQLCTEL
   SEQ-ID 50, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
25 HYCYSLYGT
   SEQ-ID 51, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
   LYGTTLEQQY
30 SEQ-ID 52, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
   EVYDFAFRDL
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                              42
   SEQ-ID 53, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A24
   VYDFAFRDLC
   SEQ-ID 54, HPV 16 E6 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*0201
 5 29-TIHDIILECV-38
   SEQ-ID 55, HPV 16 E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*0201
   86-TLGIVCPI-93
10 SEQ-ID 56, HPV 16 E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*0201
   82-LLMGTLGIV-90
   SEQ-ID 57, HPV 16 E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*0201
   85-GTLGIVCPI-93
15
   SEQ-ID 58, HPV 16 E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*0201
    86-TLGIVCPIC-94
   SEQ-ID 59, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR
20  1-MHGDTPTLHEYD-12
   SEQ-ID 60, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR
   48-DRAHYNIVTFCCKCD-62
25 SEQ-ID 61, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR
   62-DSTLRLCVQSTHVD-75
   SEQ-ID 62, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*201
   7-TLHEYMLDL-15
30
   SEQ-ID 63, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*201
    1 1-YMLDLQPETT-20
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                              43
   SEQ-ID 64, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*201
    1 1-YMLDLQPET-19
 5 SEQ-ID 65, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA A*201
    12-MLDLQPETT-20
   SEQ-ID 66, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA B18
    16-QPETTDLYCY-25
10
   SEQ-ID 67, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA B18
   44-QAEPDRAHY-52
   SEQ-ID 68, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA B18
15 46-EPDRAHYNIV-55
   SEQ-ID 69, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DQ2
   35-EDEIDGPAGQAEPDRA-50
20 SEQ-ID 70, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR3
   43-GQAEPDRAHYNIVTFCCKCDSTLRLCVQSTHVDIR-77
   SEQ-ID 71, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR15
   50-AHYNIVTFCCKCD-62
25
   SEQ-ID 72, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA DR17
   58-CCKCDSTLRLC-68
   SEQ-ID 73, HPV E7 T-cell epitope binding to HLA-DRB1*0901
30 61-CDSTLRLCVQSTHVDIRTLE-80
   SEQ-ID 74, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                              44
    146-KLQCVDLHV-154
   SEQ-ID 75, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
    141-FLTPKKLQCV-150
 5
   SEQ-ID 76, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
    154-VISNDVCAQV-163
   SEQ-ID 77, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
10  154-YISNDVCAQV-163
   SEQ-ID 78, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A3
    162-QVHPQKVTK-170
15 SEQ-ID 79, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
    152-CYASGWGSI-160
   SEQ-ID 80, PSA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
   248-HYRKWIKDTI-257
20
   SEQ-ID 81, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   4-LLHETDSAV-12
   SEQ-ID 82, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
25 71 1-ALFDIESKV-719
   SEQ-ID 83, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   27-VLAGGFFLL-35
30 SEQ-ID 84, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
    178-NYARTEDFF-186
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                45
   SEQ-ID 85, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
   227-LYSDPADYF-235
   SEQ-ID 86, PSMA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
 5 624-TYSVSFDSL-632
   SEQ-ID 87, PAP T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   299-ALDVYNGLL-307
10 SEQ-ID 88, PAP T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A24
   213-LYCESVHNF-221
   SEQ-ID 89, PAP T-cell epitope binding to MHC-2
    199-GQDLFGIWSKVYDPL-213
15
   SEQ-ID 90, PAP T-cell epitope binding to MHC-2
   228-TEDTMTKLRELSELS-242
   SEQ-ID 91, PSCA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
20  14-ALQPGTALL-22
   SEQ-ID 92, PSCA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
    105-AILALLPAL-113
25 SEQ-ID 93, PSCA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   7-ALLMAGLAL-15
   SEQ-ID 94, PSCA T-cell epitope binding to HLA-A2
   21-LLCYSCKAQV-30
30
   SEQ-ID 95, Kallikrein 4 T-cell epitope binding to DRB1*0404
    155-LLANGRMPTVLQCVN-169
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                     46
   SEQ-ID 96, Kallikrein 4 T-cell epitope binding to DRB1*0701
    160-RMPTVLQCVNVSVVS-174
 5 SEQ-ID 97, Kallikrein 4 T-cell epitope binding to DPB1*0401
    125-SVSESDTIRSISIAS-139
   SEQ-ID 98, EBV nuclear antigen 3 T-cell epitope binding to MHC I HLA B8
   FLRGRAYGL
10
   SEQ-ID 99, HLA-A2 restricted CD8+ T-cell epitope of PAP binding to HLA-A2
   FLFLLFFWL
   SEQ-ID 100, HLA-A2 restricted CD8+ T-cell epitope of PAP binding to HLA-A2
15 TLMSAMTNL
   SEQ-ID 101, HLA-A2 restricted CD8+ T-cell epitope of PAP binding to HLA-A2
   ALDVYNGLL
20 SEQ-ID 102, human HLA-A2.1-restricted CTL epitope of PAP-3 binding to HLA A2.1
    ILLWQPIPV
   SEQ-ID 103, HLA-A2. 1-restricted CTL epitope of STEAP-3 binding to HLA-A2.1
    LLLGTIHAL
25
   SEQ-ID 104, HLA-A2.1-restricted CTL epitope of MUC-1 and MUC-2 binding to HLA
   A2.1
   CHGVTSAPDTRPAPGSTAPPAHGVTSAPDTRPA
30 SEQ-ID 105, single chain HLA-A0201/FLWGPRALV construct.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                      47
   MAVMAPRTLVLLLSGALALTQTWAFLWGPRALVGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGSGIQRTPKIQVYSRHP
   AENGKSNFLNCYVSGFHPSDIEVDLLKNGERIEKVEHSDLSFSKDWSFYLLYYTEFTPTEKDEYACRVN
   H
   VTLSQPKIVKWDRDMGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGSHSMRYFFTSVSRPGRGEPRFIAVGYVDDTQFVRFD
 5 SDA
   ASQRMEPRAPWIEQEGPEYWDGETRKVKAHSQTHRVDLGTLRGYYNQSESHTVQRMYGCDVGSDW
   RFLRG
   YHQYAYDGKDYIALKEDLRSWTAADMAAQTTKHKWEAAHVAEQLRAYLEGTCVEWLRRYLENGKE
   TLQRT
10 DSPKAHVTHHPRSKGEVTLRCWALGFYPADITLTWQLNGEELTQDMELVETRPAGDGTFQKWASVV
   VPLG
   KEQNYTCRVYHEGLPEPLTLRWEPPPSTDSYMVIVAVLGVLGAMAIIGAVVAFVMKRRRNTGGGDYA
   LAP GSQSSEMSLRDCKA
15
   9866255 1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                         48
   CLAIMS:
    1.          An immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety, comprising at least an
                immunoglobulin variable region that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex
 5              preferentially associated with aberrant cells.
   2.           The immunoglobulin according to claim 1 wherein said immunoglobulin variable
                region is a Vh or Vhh.
   3.           The immunoglobulin according to claim 2 wherein said immunoglobulin variable
                region further comprises a V1.
10 4.           The immunoglobulin according to claim 3 being a human IgG.
   5.           The immunoglobulin according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the MHC-peptide
                complex is specific for aberrant cells, preferably through a peptide derived from
                MAGE, preferably from MAGE-A.
   6.           The immunoglobulin according to any one of claims I to 5 wherein the toxic moiety
15              is chemically linked to the immunoglobulin.
   7.           The immunoglobulin according to any one of claims I to 5 wherein the toxic moiety
                is a fusion protein, fused to the immunoglobulin at the DNA level, preferably through
                a linking sequence
   8.           A pharmaceutical composition comprising an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic
20              moiety according to any one of claims 1 to 7 and suitable diluents and/or excipients.
   9.           Use of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of claims 1
                to 7, for the treatment of a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells.
    10.         Use of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of claims 1
                to 7, for the treatment of a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells
25              wherein the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cell.
    11.         An immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 1 to
                7 for use in the treatment of cancer.
    12.         Use of an immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to any of claims 1
                to 7, for the treatment of a host suffering from cancer, wherein at least the toxic
30              moiety is internalized into the aberrant cell.
    13.         An immunoglobulin provided with a toxic moiety according to Figure 5B.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                          49
    14.         An         immunoglobulin  linked   with   a toxic   moiety,   comprising   at   least an
                immunoglobulin variable region that specifically binds to an MHC-peptide complex
                preferentially associated with aberrant cells, wherein said peptide is derived from
                MAGE.
 5  15.         The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to claim 14 wherein said
                immunoglobulin variable region is a Vh or Vhh.
    16.         The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to claim 15 wherein said
                immunoglobulin variable region further comprises a V1.
    17.         The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to claim 16 being a human
10              IgG.
    18.         The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to
                 17, wherein the MHC-peptide complex is specific for aberrant cells, preferably
                through a peptide derived from MAGE-A.
    19.         The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to
15               18, wherein the MHC is MHC-1.
   20.          The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to
                 19, wherein said immunoglobulin is an antibody, a fragment or a derivative thereof,
                optionally a Fab or a ScFv.
   21.          The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to
20              20 wherein the toxic moiety is chemically linked to the immunoglobulin.
   22.          The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to
                20 wherein the toxic moiety is a proteinaceous toxic moiety, optionally wherein the
                immunoglobulin is linked with the proteinaceous toxic moiety by a peptide linker.
   23.          The immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to claim 22, wherein the
25              immunoglobulin linked to the proteinaceous toxic moiety is encoded at the DNA
                level.
   24.          A pharmaceutical composition comprising the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic
                moiety according to any one of claims 14 to 23 and a suitable diluent and/or
                excipient.
30 25.          Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims
                 14 to 23 for treating a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells.
   9866255_1 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

                                                        50
   26.         Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims
                14 to 23 in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a host suffering from a
               disease associated with aberrant cells.
   27.         A method of treating a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells,
 5             the method comprising administering to the host the immunoglobulin linked with a
               toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to 23 or the pharmaceutical
               composition according to claim 24.
   28.         Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims
                14 to 23 for treating a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells,
10             wherein the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cells.
   29.         Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims
                14 to 23 in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a host suffering from a
               disease associated with aberrant cells, wherein the toxic moiety is internalized into the
               aberrant cells.
15 30.         A method of treating a host suffering from a disease associated with aberrant cells,
               the method comprising administering to the host the immunoglobulin linked with a
               toxic moiety according to any one of claims 14 to 23 or the pharmaceutical
               composition according to claim 24, wherein the toxic moiety is internalized into the
               aberrant cells.
20 31.         Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to one any of claims
                14 to 23 for treating a host suffering from cancer, wherein at least the toxic moiety is
               internalized into the aberrant cell.
   32.         Use of the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to any one of claims
                14 to 23 in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a host suffering from cancer,
25             wherein at least the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cell.
   33.         A method of treating a host suffering from cancer, the method comprising
               administering to the host the immunoglobulin linked with a toxic moiety according to
               any one of claims 14 to 23 or the pharmaceutical composition according to claim 24,
               wherein at least the toxic moiety is internalized into the aberrant cells.
30
   98662551 (GHMatters) P97538.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>               ')% !0
                                     ! " ##           $! %"! & %''( )*#) (#% $ + ),%& & -%!.                     !)/%"
              1                  12
<removed-apn>
              3            !     !       ,   $%)       1 1
                            1
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%& 1
              #       (    #         (   #       #(          #0   #0   #0        #    #    #       )   #0    *
                      (     *        (           0$     #    #         #0        .    .    .                0
                                                                                               1
              #0 6 ! 7%$             +       #    *     #    #    )    #0        0$   #(   *   #(      #0    #
                     1
              #       #    #             0       $+     #0        $    0$        0    0    #   $+            #
              0$      #0    *    .       .        #          *    $+   $              0$   $   .        (    0
                                                 3                           3                              8
              (       #    6 !   $                (      *   #    #(    $+       .    #    #   0        0   0$
                                         8                             2                               2
              #       #0   #0            0       0       #   )    $+   0         +    #0   #   #0      .     (
              #       .     #                    #0          .         #0
                                                                             *

<removed-date>
                       1
<removed-apn>
                       2
                        4
                  1      !%5%"% #
                  1    + +!%&
                       1
              0       (    #(   0    *   #   #    )    #0
                       2
                        4
                  1      !%5%"% #
                  1    + +!%&
              #(      #0   $+   0$   #   )   #(   #(   0$
                       2
                        4
                  1      !%5%"% #
                  1    + +!%&
              0       (    #(   0    *   #   #    )    $+
                       2
                                                            *

<removed-date>
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              0       (       #(   0       *   #       #    )    #
<removed-apn>
                          3
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              #(      #       #    (       #   #            #0   #0   #0        (       #    0$       )   #0   #0
                      (        *   (           0$      #    #         #0        .       .    .            $+   0
                                                                                                  1
              0    6 !             +   #           *   #    #    )    #0        0$      #0   (    #(       +       (
                           1
                      0       #                $+      #0        .    #         0       0    #    $+               #
              0$      #0       *   .   .           #        *    $+   $      #          0$   $             (
                                               3                            3                                  8
              (       #    6 !     $               (   *    #    $+    $+       .       #    #    0        0   0$
                                       8                              2                                   2
              #       #            )       *   #0      0    0    0    0         #0      (    $+       (    +   #0
              #       #0      .    .       #   .       #
                                                                            *       1

<removed-date>
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
<removed-apn>
                          8
              #    6 !        )    0$   #   #0    (    (   #
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              0$      0$      (    (    .   #    7%$   .   #   #       #(   $   0   (   #(   0
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              #(      #       $+   )    .   #0 7%$         0
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                                                                   *

<removed-date>
                      (    .       *    #    #    #   .    0$
                          2
                           4
<removed-apn>
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              $       0    0$ 7%$       0$   .    )   #(   #
                           1
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                           1
              #(      #    0       $+   #0   *    #( 7%$        #
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              *       #(       )   #    .    0$   #   #( 6 !    (
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                                                                    *

<removed-date>
               1       + +!%&
              $+   )    #       *   0    #(   .   (    +
<removed-apn>
                       2
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
                   #    .       )   .    .    #   $    .
                        3
                       2
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
                       3
                   #    0   #0      #(   )    *   0$   (
                        8
                       2
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
                       8
                   #    0   #0      #(   )    *   0$   (
                                                           *

<removed-date>
                           2
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
<removed-apn>
              0$ 6 !          #   #(   (   # 7%$    .    (
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              0       (    #       (   #   .   #0   #    #(   #
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              #(      0       (   #    (   #   .    #0   #
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                                                                  *   3

<removed-date>
              #(      #    $+      )    #   #0 7%$   (   0
                           1
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
<removed-apn>
                  1       + +!%&
                           1
              .       (        +   #0   )   *   #    (   #
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              6 !     #(       #   $+   )   #   #0 7%$   (   0
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
               +      #    0       .    .   )   #    #   .
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                                                                 *   8

<removed-date>
                1   + +!%&
              #0    #   0    $+   #0   *    #( 7%$   .   #
                     3
<removed-apn>
                    2
                     4
                1     !%5%"% #
                1   + +!%&
                        3
              6 !   #   0$   #         #0   #0   )   *
                     8
                    2
                     4
                1     !%5%"% #
                1   + +!%&
                        8
              #0    (   0    $+   #0 6 !    #( 7%$   (
                     2
                    2
                     4
                1     !%5%"% #
                1   + +!%&
                        2
               #    *   #    #0 7%$    (    0    #   (
                    1
                    2
                                                             *   2

<removed-date>
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          1
              #       #        *   #    #   .   (   #   (
<removed-apn>
                          1
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          1
              .       (        +   #0   )   *   #   0   #
                          1
                          8
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          1
              0       *        )   *    )   *   *   0
                          11
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          11
              0       0        +   )    *   )   *   *   0
                                                            *

<removed-date>
                        1
                        4
                1        !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
<removed-apn>
                        1
              6 !   .       #   #0   #   7%$   .   (   #    0$      #
                        1
                        4
                1        !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
                        1
                    (       ( 6 !    +   #     .   #   0$   .       (
                        1
                        2
                         4
                1         !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
                        1
                    (       ( 6 !    +   #     .   #   0$
                        13
                        2
                         4
                1         !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
                                                                *

<removed-date>
                          13
              #       (            (    ( 6 !     +    #   .
                          18
                          4
<removed-apn>
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          18
              #            #0      )    #0   #0   #0   #   )    *
                          12
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          12
              .       #    $+      )    #    #(   *    )   *
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              .       .        (   #(   #    #    0    $   0$
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                                                                *

<removed-date>
                  1       + +!%&
              #            #(   0      * 7%$    0    0$   0
<removed-apn>
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              #0      .    .       (   #(   #   #    0    $    0$
                           1
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                           1
              0$      #         #(     0    * 7%$    0    0$
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              0       0$   0           #    0   #0   .    .    (
                                                                *   1

<removed-date>
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
<removed-apn>
              (       (       *    *   #(   #    0   $+   .
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              #       #    0       *   $+   #0   $   )    0
                           3
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              .       .       (   #(   #    #    0   $    0$
                           8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
                                                               *

<removed-date>
              0$    0            (   0   #0   .    .    (
                         2
                        2
                         4
                1         !%5%"% #
<removed-apn>
                1       + +!%&
                        2
              0$    (       )   #    (   0$   .    #(   (
                        2
                         4
                1         !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
              7%$   0    0$     0        (    0    #0   .
                        4
                1        !%5%"% #
                1       + +!%&
               (    0    #0     .    .   (    #(   #    #   0
                        4
                1        !%5%"% #
                                                                *

<removed-date>
                  1       + +!%&
              #(      #       0    $+   .   #    .   *    $+   (
                          1
<removed-apn>
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          1
              #       0       $+   .    #   .    *   $+   (    0$
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              .       #   7%$      $+   #   #    (   #(   0$   #
                          8
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              .       (       #0   #    #   0$   )   #
                          2
                                                                *

<removed-date>
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
               (      ( 6 !       #0   .   (    #0   #   #
<removed-apn>
                           3
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              #0      .       (   #0   #   #    0$   )   #
                           8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              .       (    #0     #    #   0$   )    #   0$
                          2
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              6 ! 7%$      #0     $+   .   )    .    ( 7%$    #(   0       $+
                                                               *       3

<removed-date>       1
                          4
                           !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
<removed-apn>
              $+      *   #   7%$   0     $     #    #    .   .       0$      0$    0$   0$   $+
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              $+          .    (      *    (    0$   #    #           .       7%$   #    $+
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              .       ( 7%$   #(    0     6 !   (    $+   (
                          1
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                                                                  *       8

<removed-date>
                          1
              0     6 !       (   $+   (   #    )    #(   .    .
                      2
                       4
<removed-apn>
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              0     6 !       (   $+   (   #    )    #(   .
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              6 !     (   $+      (    #   )    #(   .    .
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              #       )   #(      .    .   $+   (    0    0$   0
                       3
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                                                                   *   2

<removed-date>
                  1       + +!%&
                           3
              #       #       #(   )    $+    *    #   7%$   0
<removed-apn>
                           8
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                           8
              #(      )       $+   *    #    7%$   0   $     #     #
                           2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                           2
              #(      $+      #(   #    $+   #0    )   #     #0    #       #   #(   )   $+   *   #
                          3
                          1
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              #0      #       #    #(   )    $+    *   #     7%$   0       $   #    #   .    .   0$
                                                                       *

<removed-date>
              0$      0$      0$   $+        .   (   *    (    0$      #    #           .   7%$   #
                                                                                       1
              $+      #        *
                           1
                          3
<removed-apn>
                           1
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              #    7%$        0    $    #    #   .   .    0$   0$      0$   0$   $+
                          3
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              0$      0$      0$   0$   $+       .   (    *    (       0$
                          31
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          31
              0$      $+           .    (    *   (   0$   #    #            .    7%$    #   $+    #
              *       .        (   #(
                                                                   *

<removed-date>
                          3
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
<removed-apn>
                          3
              0$      (       #   0$   #    $+   ( 7%$    #
                          3
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              .       (       .    )   0$   0$   (    #   0$   #
                          3
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          3
              #       #           $    $+   #    0$   #   #    #
                          33
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                                                               *

<removed-date>
                          33
              0       #            $    $+   #    0$   #    #    #
                          38
                          2
                           4
<removed-apn>
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          38
              #       # 7%$        )    #    0$   #    .    0$
                          32
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          32
              0$      0       #         #0   +    #0        #
                          8
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              7%$     0        *   0$   +    #    0$   $+   .    #
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                                                                     *   1

<removed-date>
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              (       ( 7%$       #(   .    $+        #    #
<removed-apn>
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              #       (       .   $+   #    #(        0$   #
                          81
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          81
              #       (       #   #0   #0   .    .    (    (
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              $       0       #    *   .    #(   $+   .    .
                                                               *

<removed-date>
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
<removed-apn>
              (       0            $+   )   #   $+   0   .
                          8
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          8
              .       0            #        .   $+       (
                          83
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          83
              #       (       $+   #    0   $   #0   (   (
                          88
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          88
                                                             *

<removed-date>
              (       0       0$   #(         # 7%$     $   .
                          82
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
<removed-apn>
                  1       + +!%&
                          82
              #0      #       $+   (    .     #0   #    +       0$   #   0   $+   )   (
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              .       #(      $+   .    6 !   .    0$   (   *   #(   (       #(   (
                          2
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              #       (       #    )    #0    .    #    (   (
                          2
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                                                                 *

<removed-date>
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              #       #        (   #   (    (    )    #   (
                          21
<removed-apn>
                          2
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          21
              #       (        ( 6 !   #    #0   (    #   (
                          2
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              (       (       0$   0        0$   0$   #   #   #
                          2
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
                          2
              (       (       #    $   #0   * 6 !     )   .   #   (   #   0$   #   $
                          2
                                                              *   3

<removed-date>
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                      2
              * 6 !        )   .      #   (    #   0$   #   $       #       #   #
<removed-apn>
                      23
                          4
                  1        !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                      23
                      #        #(         $+   .   #    *           #       #   #
                      28
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                      28
              .       (    *   #0     *   #    0   #0   (
                      22
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                      22
              .       (   .    (      (   .    .   +    (
                                                                *       8

<removed-date>
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
<removed-apn>
              .       ( 6 !        #   6 !   .    $   (
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              #       (   $+   #   0   $     #0   (   (
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
              #       (   (    +   #    )    #    )   #
                        1
                      2
                       4
                  1     !%5%"% #
                  1   + +!%&
                                                          *   2

<removed-date>
                           1
               (      (     (    #0    .    #     7%$   #    (
                          11
                           4
<removed-apn>
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              0$ 7%$       #0      #   .          #     )    $+   .       *    )    #        )   #0
              .       #     )      )   #    7%$   #0    #    .            #    )    $+    .      *    )
                                                                                         1
              #
                           4
                  1         !%5%"% #
                  1       + +!%&
              6 !     #     # 6 !      #     )     *    .    (    #       (    (    (            #0   #
               (      #     (    .     #    .      +    #    .    (       +    #0   )        *   #    (
                                                                                         1
               #      #0    #0   #0    #0         #0    #0   #0   #0           #0   #0   #0      #0
                           1
              #0      #0   #0          #0   #     #     *    .    )       0$   #    #        #   0
                                                                      *   1

<removed-date>
               * 7%$      )    #     #(       $   #0   0$         $        .    (    $     0$   0        #
                                             3                            3                          8
                    #0    .    7%$       )        $+   #    #(        #   $+    (     (    0$    $   #0
                                     8                            2                             2
<removed-apn>
              #(     *    #    #(    0$       #   #( 7%$          $+       (         .          0$   $+
               +          .    0         (    (   0    0    .     #(      .    .      )    .    #(   0$
              $+    #(    0    #     0$       *    #   $    7%$       #   .     (          #     )   0$
                    1                             1
              #      #    0$    +    $+       *   $+ 6 !    #0    #0      #0   #0          #0   #0   #0
              #0          #0   #0    #0      #0        #0         7%$          6 !    *    0    .    .
                                                                   3                            3
              .           #              *    )   #0   *    #0    #(       )    *    .     #    #        #
                               8                            8                              2
              #0    0      #   $+    $+      .    #    .     #        *   .    $+          $+   #    #
                          2
                    #     * 6 !      #(       )   *    #     )        +   #    #(    #     #(   #0       )
              #(    0     +    $+    #0      #(   .    *    0$        #   0$   #     7%$        #    .
                                             1                            1
              7%$    *    #    $+        (   #0   .    (     *    #0      0    0     $     #         #(
                    7%$   .     #    #        * 6 !    0    #0    0$      $+    #    #0         $+       +
                                                                                           3
                                                                      *    1

<removed-date>
               *    .     (    *    #0      0    7%$   #       0    #       0     $+    #0    0$      $+    0
                         3                             8                                8
              #     #     (   0$    #(      $+    (        *         +      .      #    #     $+ 6 !        #
                    2                            2                                1
<removed-apn>
               #    #    .    .     0$ 7%$       0$        +   #(   #        #    7%$    #    #       #(     #
              1                        1                                    1                               1
               (     *   #    0         (   #(   #0    .       0$     #     #(     +     (        *     *   0
                                    1                               11                                11
               (    #(   $     #0   0$      #(   .         (    #    *      .     $+              )   0$    #
                              1                                1                              1
              7%$    #    .   7%$ 7%$        )    *            0$   #0      #(     #     .        (    *    0$
                         1                             1                                1
               +     #    (   #0    .       0      )   #       $+   #       .       (   .         +   #      (
                    13                           13                               18
               $    #0   #(   #(        (    .   #     $+ 6 !       #(        (    #    #(    .        *     )
              18                            12                              12
              #     #0   $+   #0    .       .    #     0$       +   #              #     #        #    )     (
              #0    0$   #(   #     $       0    .     0$       *    #      0     7%$   #(    #0       (     )
                                                                                              1
              #(     )    (   .         (    *    +    #(       )    )       )          .     $+            0
                         1
              6 !    #   #     #    #        #    (    #0       #    (      #0    #     6 !   #       #     #
              #0    #     #    #    #       .     # 6 !        0$    *       *     *    $     .       #0    #0
                                            3                               3                               8
                                                                        *    1

<removed-date>
              #0   $+   0    #     (   #   )   #0       #            #( 6 !       (
                                  8                     2                     2
              *    $+   0$   0$   #
<removed-apn>
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1    + +!%&
                    4
                    9 : 9 :
               1     % ;  ") $%$!% * )5 9           :
              #0   #0   #0   #0
                        3
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1    + +!%&
                    4
                    9 : 9 :
               1     % ;  ") $%!% * )5 9            :
                        3
              #0        .         #0
                         8
                        8
                                                            *   11

<removed-date>
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
                        8
              #0        .         #0        #0   0$    )    #0          #0   #(   #0       .
<removed-apn>
              0$   #0
                         2
                        1
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
                        2
              #0   .    #    0$   .    .    #    )          #       0   )    (    #    )   #
              (    #(             #0        #0
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
               1       + +!%&
              #(   )    0$        0$   $+   0$   .    7%$   .
                        4
               1         !%5%"% #
                                                                *   1

<removed-date>
               1   + +!%&
              #(   (   0$   .    )    (   #0   $+   .    .       7%$   .
<removed-apn>
                   3
                    4
               1     !%5%"% #
               1   + +!%&
              #(       0$   0   #0    )   )
                       9 76 !!   $:   23 18         <7
                                                             *    1

