   Abstract
           A method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize
   having a prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value
   which is held within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine,
 5 the gaming machine having at least one processor, the method comprising: determining,
   by the at least one processor, a range of random numbers as a function of the prize
   value, said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived from the prize
   value; determining, by the at least one processor, at least one winnable outcome value
   dependent on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, the
10 number of winnable outcome values including an outcome upper limit derived from the
   residual credit value; randomly generating a random number generator, an outcome
   from the range of random numbers; comparing, by the at least one processor, the
   generated outcome in relation to the winnable outcome value; awarding the prize with
   the gaming machine if the generated outcome relationally matches any of the winnable
15 outcome values.

                                                 1
                      RESIDUAL CREDITS IN A GAMING SYSTEM
   Related Application
 5         This application is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   2013200421, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   2009201851, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   2004201573. The disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated herein by
10 reference.
   Field of the Invention
           This invention relates to a system and method for using residual credits derived
15 from a gaming system for the chance to win a prize where the residual credits are
   otherwise not collectable by a user or player.
   Background to the Invention
20         Where gaming systems and more particularly gaming machines dispense a unit
   of monetary value that is more than the present residual credit on the machine owing to
   the player, there is no method or system to enable that player to acquire a monetary
   value equivalent to the credit. In such situations the player may have decided to stop
   playing on a particular machine and has a residual amount of credit that is unable to be
25 presented or resolved as a whole credit.
           Known prior art systems include double up features, residual credit removal
   features, CDS tokeniser applications, hyperlink jackpots, stand alone jackpots and link
   progressive jackpots.
           The present invention seeks to overcome these problems by providing the player
30 with an opportunity to risk the residual amount of credit in exchange for the possibility
   of a significant gain or prize.
   Summary of the Invention
35         According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
   wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize having a prize value, the
   residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held within the
   gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming machine
   having at least one processor, the method comprising:

                                                 2
            determining, by the at least one processor, a range of random numbers as a
   function of the prize value, said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived
   from the prize value;
            determining, by the at least one processor, at least one winnable outcome value
 5 dependent on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, the
   number of winnable outcome values including an outcome upper limit derived from the
   residual credit value;
            randomly generating a random number generator, an outcome from the range of
   random numbers;
10          comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated outcome in relation to
   the winnable outcome value;
            awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated outcome
   relationally matches any of the winnable outcome values.
            In an embodiment, the number of winnable outcome values are sequential.
15          In an embodiment, the method comprises determining, by the at least one
   processor, the outcome upper limit by dividing the residual credit by the denomination
   of the gaming machine.
            In an embodiment, the method comprises determining by the at least one
   processor, the upper limit of the range of random numbers by dividing the prize value
20 by the denomination.
            According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a gaming
   machine for wagering residual credits of the gaming machine to win a prize having a
   prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held
   within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming
25 machine comprising:
            a controller configured to:
                    determine a range of random numbers as a function of the prize value;
                    determine at least one winnable outcome value based on the value of the
   residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, by deriving a number of winnable
30 outcome values from the residual credit value, and
                    determine an upper limit for the range of random numbers, the upper
   limit being derived from the prize value;
            a random number generator configured to generate a random outcome within the
   range of random numbers; and
35          wherein the controller compares the generated random outcome in relation to the
   at least one winnable outcome value, and awards the prize from the gaming machine if
   the generated random outcome relationally matches any of the winnable outcome
   values.
            In accordance with a third aspect, of the present invention there is provided a

                                                  3
    method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize having a prize
    value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held
    within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming
    machine having at least one processor, the method comprising:
  5         determining, by the at least one processor, a range of random numbers as a
    function of the prize value, said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived
    from the prize value;
            determining, by the at least one processor, a winning range of said range of
    random numbers dependent on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the
10  gaming machine, the winning range including an winning range upper limit derived
    from the residual credit value;
            randomly generating, by a random number generator, an outcome from the
    range of random numbers;
            comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated outcome in relation to
is  the winning range; and
            awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated outcome
    relationally matches the winning range.
            In accordance with a fourth aspect, of the present invention there is provided a
    gaming machine for wagering residual credits to win a prize having a prize value, the
20  residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held by the gaming
    machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming machine comprising:
            a controller configured to:
                    determine a range of random numbers as a function of the prize value,
    said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived from the prize value, and
25                  determine a winning range of said range of random numbers dependent
    on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, the winning
    range including an winning range upper limit derived from the residual credit value;
            a random number generator configured to generate a random outcome within the
    range of random numbers; and
30          wherein the controller compares the generated random outcome in relation to the
    winning range, and awards the prize with the gaming machine if the generated random
    outcome relationally matches the winning range.
            In accordance with a fifth aspect, of the present invention there is provided a
    method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize having a prize
35  value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held
    within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming
    machine having at least one processor, the method comprising:
            determining, by the at least one processor, a percentage chance that the residual
    credit indispensable by the gaming machine will result in a win from the prize value

                                                 4
   and the residual credit value;
            randomly generating, by a random number generator, a random number;
            comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated random number to the
   percentage chance to win; and
 5          awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated random number is
   less than or equal to the percentage chance to win.
            In accordance with a sixth aspect, of the present invention there is provided a
   gaming machine for wagering residual credits to win a prize having a prize value, the
   residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held by the gaming
10 machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming machine comprising:
            a controller configured to determine a percentage chance that the residual credit
   indispensable by the gaming machine will result in a win from the prize value and the
   residual credit value; and
            a random number generator configured to generate a random number; and
15          wherein the controller compares the generated random number in relation to the
   percentage chance to win, and awards the prize with the gaming machine if the
   generated random number is less than or equal to the percentage chance to win.
   Brief Description of the Drawin2s
20
            Preferred embodiments of the invention will hereinafter be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
            Figure 1 is a flow diagram showing processes involved with a residual credit
   jackpot using an instant resolution type;
25          Figure 2 illustrates a schematic diagram of components of a game machine to
   enable a prize allocation to a player or players using residual credits;
            Figure 3 is a flow diagram showing processes involved with a delayed residual
   credit jackpot;
            Figure 4 is a schematic diagram showing an overall gaming system used to
30 allocate a prize to a number of players using the residual credits derived from playing
   on single game machines linked to a central controller;
            Figure 5 is a schematic diagram showing a sequential allocation of winning
   numbers based on the delayed residual credit jackpots; and
            Figure 6 is a schematic diagram showing a non-sequential allocation of numbers
35 to a player or players using the delayed residual credit jackpot.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
            Players of gaming machines are allowed to risk residual credits, where a

                                                  5
   particular gaming system or gaming machine is unable to dispense units of monetary
   value equivalent to the residual credit. In return for that risk the player is given the
   chance to win a prize of some significance, such as a jackpot pool. Sources of the prizes
   of a residual credit jackpot which the player undertakes may be jackpots or other prizes.
 5         There are two basic types of residual credit jackpots being instant resolution and
   delayed resolution both of which will be described in further detail below.
           A player that completes the gambling games and has credits remaining within
   the gaming system, but which are insufficient to collect as a whole credit may be
   offered a range of options to use or deal with the remaining or residual credit. The
10 player may continue playing the particular gaming machine until enough credit is raised
   or realized to enable the machine to pay out units of monetary value that are equivalent
   to or achieve as much credit owing to the player. Alternatively, as in the present
   invention the player can select a residual credit jackpot redemption feature. The
   residual credit triggers a prize based on one of the three scenarios which are outlined in
15 the following description.
           Firstly, where the residual jackpot is an instant resolution, the residual stake of
   the player is calculated as a percentage of the possible prize or prizes, such as a jackpot
   pool. This is the percentage chance that the residual stake results in winning. A
   random number is then generated and if this number is less than or equal to the
20 percentage chance to win then an appropriate prize is awarded to the player.
           Referring to the instant resolution in further detail with reference to Figure 1 at
   step 100, the residual credit lottery system is initialized and then at step 102 a prize
   value is obtained. At step 104 the upper limit of the random number generator range is
   determined whereby the limit of the range is equivalent to the prize divided by the
25 denomination. The process moves to step 106 where a determination is made of the
   range of outcomes that would result in a win. Thus the winning range upper limit
   would equal the residual credit divided by the denomination. The process then moves
   to step 108 where an outcome is generated from the random number generator and a
   decision is made at step 110 as to whether the outcome has resulted in a win. In other
30 words, if the outcome is a value between 1 and the winning range upper limit, then a
   prize is awarded at step 112 and the residual credit lottery is terminated at step 114. If
   the outcome is not a win, then the process moves to step 114 where the residual credit
   lottery is terminated.
           As an example of how the above flow chart works and how the instant
35 resolution is determined, a player may have 50 cents remaining for a system that
   dispenses dollar coins only. The denomination of the system is 10 cents. The player is
   offered a selection of residual credit resolution options of which the player selects
   residual credit jackpot redemption. The single prize award is $1,000 so that the player
   has a five in ten thousand chance of winning the $1,000 prize. This has been determined

                                                    6
   by the fact that the player has 50 cents remaining and the prize is $1,000. The upper
   range of the random number generation outcome is determined by the prize divided by
   the denomination which is equivalent to 1,000 divided by 0.10 equal to
   10,000. Thus the total range of the random number generation is I > outcome >
 5 10,000. The winning range is determined to have an upper limit equivalent to the
   residual credit which is 50 cents divided by the denomination of 10 cents which gives
   the result of 5. Therefore, if the outcome is any one of the numerals 1 to 5, then the
   player will win the prize of $1,000.
            Shown in Figure 2 is a controller 120 that forms part of the game machine
10 having a processor 122, data storage means 124 and memory means 126. Linked to the
   controller 120 is a mechanism 128 that inputs pulses to the controller 120 to indicate
   that the player has provided sufficient credit in playing. The controller 120 preferably
   drives a video display screen (not shown) and receives input signals from sensors to
   determine actions of the player. The controller 120 further drives a payout mechanism
15 (not shown) which for example may be a coin output. Also provided is a random
   number generator 130 which is input to the controller 120. The processor 122
   specifically determines an upper limit for the random number generating range
   according to step 104 in Figure 1 and already has inputs from the mechanism 128 to 20
   determine the amount of credit remaining for a player and will also from the memory
20 126 have access to the denomination of the gaming system or machine. Therefore
   various player outcomes can be set up and calculated knowing the residual credit and
   denomination. Once the random number generator 130 generates a number or an
   outcome this is then compared by the processor to the outcomes of the player. If a
   match is determined then a prize is awarded to the player. Computer programs that
25 implement a game and game features are stored in memory 126 and runs on a standard
   gaming console control processor which may be processor 122.
           Another possible type of residual credit jackpot is that of delayed resolution. In
   this scenario a residual stake of the player is stored along with residual stakes of other
   players. The means of associating the ownership of the stake to an individual or a
30 group is also stored along with the respective residual stake. The residual stakes are
   accumulated until the total of the residual stakes is equal in value to the total of all
   prizes. Each residual individual stake then represents a finite portion of the prize and
   also represents a percentage chance to win a prize. A random number is then generated
   by a random number generator and if the number falls into the finite segment that
35 represents a specific stake of a player, then that stake is determined as winning a prize
   and the player is accordingly awarded a prize.
           With reference to Figure 3, the process is described and shown in more detail.
   Firstly, at step 200 the residual credit lottery is created and at step 202 the residual
   credit lottery is initialised to zero and this initial value is then stored in a storage module

                                                   7
   222 (or equivalently 308) for the residual credit lottery. At step 204, a residual credit
   upper limit is defined being the prize divided by the denomination. Then at step 206 the
   residual credit lottery initialisation is terminated.
           At step 210 the player residual credit lottery is commenced and at step 212 the
 5 residual credit and unique identity of the owner of the stake is obtained. The total
   number of residual lottery numbers allocated to a particular player equals the residual
   credit divided by the denomination. At step 214 a determination is made as to the
   number and value of outcomes that results in a win. At step 216 each residual lottery
   value is stored together with the owner identity in a storage module such as 308. This
10 occurs for all of the players involved in this lottery. At step 218 the residual credit is
   added to the residual credit lottery in the data storage module 222 (or 308) and at step
   220 the player residual credit lottery is terminated.
           In order to resolve the residual credit lottery 224, the current value taken from
   the residual credit lottery data storage module 222 (or 308) is input into a comparator at
15 step 226 which compares that current value to the upper limit of the residual credit
   derived from step 204. The process then moves to step 228 where a determination is
   made as to whether the current value equals the upper limit. If not the process reverts to
   step 226 but if the current value does equal the residual credit upper limit an outcome is
   generated by the random number generator at step 230. At step 232 the generated
20 outcome is compared to all of the residual stakes. At step 234 a determination is made
   as to whether the generated outcome equals an allocated residual lottery number or
   numbers. If not, the process returns to step 232 but if the outcome equals one or more of
   an allocated residual lottery number then the winner is identified at step 236 and the
   winner contacted to collect the prize at step 238.
25         As an example of the delayed residual credit jackpot scenario the following can
   be considered. A player has 60 cents remaining in residual credit for a system that
   dispenses only dollar coins. The denomination of the system is 10 cents. The player is
   known to the system and identified under an identification code such as (xxx.. .xxx)
   which is unique to an individual. The total prize is currently worth $66. 10 and a single
30 prize award of $100 will be offered that will be resolved when the system accumulates
   enough residual credit stakes from all of the players when it totals $100. The player is
   offered a selection of residual credit resolution options of which the player selects
   residual credit jackpot redemption. The total prize is now worth $66.70 given that 60
   cents of that player is added to the current total prize of $66. 10. The player identified by
35 (xxx...xxx) is allocated the numbers 662, 663, 664, 665, 666 and 667 as the player has a
   residual credit of 60 cents and the denomination is 10 cents giving the player six
   numbers so allocated. As the single prize is $100 and the denomination is 10 cents, the
   upper limit of the range will be 1,000 numbers. The residual credit upper limit is $100
   and at step 226 this is compared to the current value of the residual credit lottery formed

                                                  8
    by the residual amounts of each of the players. Thus in Figure 5 it is noted that the
    sequence of numbers from 662 up to 667 as a wager belongs to the player identified as
    (xxx...xxx). Other numbers between 1 and 1,000 and outside of the range 662 to 667
    would belong to other players.
  5          Eventually the accumulated prize reaches $100 and the range of the random
    number generation outcome is determined to be between 1 and 1,000. Any random
    number generated that falls in the range 662 through to 667 results in the player
    identified under code (xxx.... xxx) winning $100.
             Alternatively the numbers allocated to the player need not be sequential as in the
10  above scenario. For example with reference to Figure 6, out of the 1,000 numbers nl, n3
    and n6 may belong to a player identified as (yyy... yyy) and numbers identified by n2,
    n4 and n5 may belong as a total wager to the player identified by (zzz... zzz).
             Shown in Figure 4 is an overall game controller 300 that receives inputs from
    various game machines 302, 304, 306 and any number of other game machines
is  operated on by players. It receives updates from each of the game machines on residual
    credits that are owing to players which cannot be otherwise paid out to the player, for
    example due to the coin denomination of the machine. It has a data storage means 308,
    a memory means 310 and a processor 312 and also receives inputs from a random
    number generator 314. A prize limit is set and players that opt to add their
20  residual credit to form a cumulative total of the prize are given outcome values based
    on the current cumulative total of the prize and this is determined by the processor 312
    and stored in the data storage means 308. Player identifications are also stored in the
    data storage means 308 with the outcome values. Once the random number generator
    314 generates one or more random outcomes these are compared with the stored player
25  outcomes and any matches are determined by the processor 312 to identify winners.
             It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
    and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
    embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
    described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
30  illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                  9
    Claims:
    1.       A method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize
    having a prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value
  5 which is held within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine,
    the gaming machine having at least one processor, the method comprising:
             determining, by the at least one processor, a range of random numbers as a
    function of the prize value, said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived
    from the prize value;
10           determining, by the at least one processor, at least one winnable outcome value
    dependent on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, the
    number of winnable outcome values including an outcome upper limit derived from the
    residual credit value;
             randomly generating a random number generator, an outcome from the range of
is  random numbers;
             comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated outcome in relation to
    the winnable outcome value;
             awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated outcome
    relationally matches any of the winnable outcome values.
20
    2.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the number of winnable outcome
    values are sequential.
    3.       A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, comprising determining, by the at
25  least one processor, the outcome upper limit by dividing the residual credit by the
    denomination of the gaming machine.
    4.       A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, comprising determining by the
    at least one processor, the upper limit of the range of random numbers by dividing the
30  prize value by the denomination.
    5.       A gaming machine for wagering residual credits of the gaming machine to win a
    prize having a prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary
    value which is held within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming
35  machine, the gaming machine comprising:
             a controller configured to:
                     determine a range of random numbers as a function of the prize value;
                     determine at least one winnable outcome value based on the value of the
    residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, by deriving a number of winnable

                                                 10
   outcome values from the residual credit value, and
                   determine an upper limit for the range of random numbers, the upper
   limit being derived from the prize value;
            a random number generator configured to generate a random outcome within the
 5 range of random numbers; and
            wherein the controller compares the generated random outcome in relation to the
   at least one winnable outcome value, and awards the prize from the gaming machine if
   the generated random outcome relationally matches any of the winnable outcome
   values.
10
   6.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein the number of winnable
   outcome values are sequential.
   7.       A gaming machine as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6, wherein the game
15 controller determines the outcome upper limit by dividing the residual credit by the
   denomination of the gaming machine.
   8.       A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the game
   controller determines the upper limit of the range of random numbers by dividing the
20 prize value by the denomination.
   9.       A method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize
   having a prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value
   which is held within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine,
25 the gaming machine having at least one processor, the method comprising:
            determining, by the at least one processor, a range of random numbers as a
   function of the prize value, said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived
   from the prize value;
            determining, by the at least one processor, a winning range of said range of
30 random numbers dependent on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the
   gaming machine, the winning range including an winning range upper limit derived
   from the residual credit value;
            randomly generating, by a random number generator, an outcome from the
   range of random numbers;
35          comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated outcome in relation to
   the winning range; and
            awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated outcome
   relationally matches the winning range.

                                                11
   10.     A gaming machine for wagering residual credits to win a prize having a prize
   value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held by
   the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming machine
   comprising:
 5         a controller configured to:
                   determine a range of random numbers as a function of the prize value,
   said range of random numbers having an upper limit derived from the prize value, and
                   determine a winning range of said range of random numbers dependent
   on the value of the residual credit indispensable by the gaming machine, the winning
10 range including an winning range upper limit derived from the residual credit value;
           a random number generator configured to generate a random outcome within the
   range of random numbers; and
           wherein the controller compares the generated random outcome in relation to the
   winning range, and awards the prize with the gaming machine if the generated random
15 outcome relationally matches the winning range.
   11.     A method of wagering a residual credit of a gaming machine to win a prize
   having a prize value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value
   which is held within the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine,
20 the gaming machine having at least one processor, the method comprising:
           determining, by the at least one processor, a percentage chance that the residual
   credit indispensable by the gaming machine will result in a win from the prize value
   and the residual credit value;
           randomly generating, by a random number generator, a random number;
25         comparing, by the at least one processor, the generated random number to the
   percentage chance to win; and
           awarding the prize with the gaming machine if the generated random number is
   less than or equal to the percentage chance to win.
30 12.     A gaming machine for wagering residual credits to win a prize having a prize
   value, the residual credit being equivalent to units of monetary value which is held by
   the gaming machine and is indispensable by the gaming machine, the gaming machine
   comprising:
           a controller configured to determine a percentage chance that the residual credit
35 indispensable by the gaming machine will result in a win from the prize value and the
   residual credit value; and
           a random number generator configured to generate a random number,

                                          12
       wherein the controller compares the generated random number in relation to the
percentage chance to win, and awards the prize with the gaming machine if the
generated random number is less than or equal to the percentage chance to win.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
