Abstract
A starting material 2 in the form of a magnesium-containing metal melt is present together
with the upper region 32 of a condensation vessel 3 in the upper region 11 of a retort 1
heated by the external heating element 5, wherein the steam produced according to the
arrows 91, according to arrow 92, enters the upper region 32 of the condensation vessel 3
through the opening 31 below the cover 4 which provides protection from unwanted
ingress of contaminated magnesium melt, wherein said steam condenses in the lower
region 12 of the retort which is heated by a second heating element 51, below the line 8
corresponding to the melting point isotherm of magnesium, to give the high-purity
magnesium melt 21 in the lower region 33 of the condensation vessel 3. By opening a
barrier unit 6, the interior of the retort 1 can be connected temporarily to the supply
chamber 13, and also via a line 73 and a valve 72 to a vacuum pump 73, via a further line
74 to a pressure measuring instrument 75, and via a third line 76, via a valve 77 and a
pressure and/or flow regulator 77 to an inert gas source 79.
                                                                                 13077P-WO

                  1/3
                       75
      79
                                    73
                         74
         78   (63        13
      77        6                    72
                              --    71
                                    7
         76'  93
                       -66
   1,      83               6
                                      81
91
    x                            x2
                  Fig.           X

                                              -1
Process and apparatus for vacuum distillation of high-purity magnesium
The invention relates to a process for producing high-purity magnesium by means of
distillation at reduced pressure, and to apparatuses for performing the process.
Magnesium has a low boiling point compared with most other metals and this is why many
processes for the recovery of the raw metal or also for the recycling of magnesium from
scrap metal are performed via the process step of vacuum distillation, since a magnesium
that is largely purified from less volatile metals can be recovered in this way in a single
step. If it is also sought to remove these volatile substances in order to produce high-purity
magnesium, for example as is desirable for the semiconductor industry, vacuum distillation
facilities having a plurality of condensation regions arranged in series are used, and
therefore high-purity fractions, in which the impurities are merely in the ppm range, are
also obtained from a number of fractions contaminated to a significant extent by other
volatile metals, such as zinc and cadmium. Such a process is described in EP 1 335 030
Al, wherein the steam rising from a crucible containing an impure magnesium melt is
conveyed via a multiplicity of successive deposition plates heated to decreasing
temperatures and deposits on these plates in fractionated form.
The evaporation temperature of magnesium can be lowered with reduction of pressure until
below the temperature of the melting point, and a particular feature of this metal is that its
steam pressure even below the melting point is still so high that it is sufficient for a
technically useful resublimation of high-purity magnesium crystals. Accordingly, most
known vacuum distillation processes in accordance with the prior art for producing high
purity magnesium lead to the deposition of solid magnesium crystals.
Such magnesium crystals, in view of their low content of foreign elements, are indeed
referred to as high-purity in the chemical sense, but the crystals have a high
surface/volume ratio, and, when such crystals are remelted for the purpose of producing a
semifinished product or near-net-shape articles, the oxide skins originally present on the
surface of the magnesium crystals due to the high reactivity are distributed as non-metal
inclusions in the melt and remain in the solidified material. Although they have only low
                                                                                      13077P-WO

                                              -2
concentration values, such inclusions, however, can adversely influence the corrosion
behaviour of the otherwise high-purity magnesium, for example.
In accordance with EP 1 335 032 Al, there is a process in which an impure magnesium
melt is evaporated in an evaporation vessel from high-purity graphite, wherein this steam
then precipitates as liquid melt in a condensation crucible likewise consisting of graphite.
Both crucibles are surrounded by a bell made of graphite, which prevents the magnesium
steam from coming into contact with the cold wall of the vacuum retort surrounding the
bell and condensing there. In order to bring both the evaporation crucible and the
condensation crucible to the temperatures necessary for the process and simultaneously to
keep the retort cold, two heating elements are present in the gap between the retort wall
and the graphite bell. In particular due to the mounting of the heating elements within the
vacuum region and the protection of the actual evaporation zone and condensation zone by
the graphite bell, an increased structural outlay is created and in addition the inner volume
has to be evacuated through leaks of the graphite bell, whereby magnesium steam can also
pass externally at these points to the heating elements and the cold retort wall.
In contrast to most processes according to the prior art, the high-purity magnesium
condenses in the liquid state in the process according to the invention, wherein a high
purity magnesium melt free from non-metal inclusions results, which forms a compact
block following solidification, which is suitable for example in the sense of a semifinished
product as starting material for shaping processes, without the material containing
relatively large quantities of non-metal inclusions, which on the one hand can negatively
influence the mechanical properties and on the other hand can negatively influence the
corrosion behaviour.
In particular   compared with the process cited further above in accordance with
EP 1 335 032 Al, the process has the advantage that the retort can be heated externally,
wherein the magnesium steam can come into contact with the inner wall of the retort
without difficulty, since this wall is at such a high temperature that solid magnesium
crystals cannot be deposited thereon. Likewise, the retort wall may also consist of a
material that is soluble to a low extent in the magnesium melt, whereby the magnesium
                                                                                      13 077P-WO

                                               -3
melt is contaminated. A condition of this, however, is that the retort must consist of a
material that releases no volatile impurities into the magnesium steam.
Due to the possibility of arranging the heating system outside the retort and also allowing
the contact with the hot inner wall of the retort, which only slightly contaminates the
magnesium melt, a process is created that is particularly simple and cost-effective in terms
of structure compared with the prior art.
An embodiment relates to process for producing high-purity magnesium by means of
distillation at reduced pressure whereby, the high-purity magnesium condenses in the
liquid state, whereby the starting material in the form of a magnesium-containing melt is
present together with the upper region of a condensation vessel in the upper region of a
retort, whereby the retort consist of a material that releases no volatile impurities into the
magnesium steam, whereby the upper region of the retort is brought to a temperature above
the boiling point of magnesium, within the limits of two level lines, and is then held
constant, such that steam rises from the boiling magnesium-containing metal melt and fills
the interior of the upper region of the retort, and whereby the steam infiltrating the upper
region of the condensation vessel condenses below the lower level line and collects as
high-purity melt in the lower region of the condensation vessel.
Another embodiment relates to an apparatus for performing the process described herein,
wherein the apparatus comprises: a retort and a condensation vessel, whereby the upper
region of the condensation vessel is in the upper region of the retort, whereby the upper
region of the retort is surrounded by a heating element, suitable for heating the upper
region of the retort between two different level lines to a temperature above the boiling
point of magnesium, and whereby the condensation vessel is arranged in a way, that the
lower part of the condensation vessel is located below the lower level line.
                                                                                        13077P-WO

                                              -4
A preferred embodiment of the present invention will be explained hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying examples.
Fig. 1        shows a diagram of an apparatus according to the invention having the features
              essential to the invention in accordance with the teaching of the independent
              patent claim.
Fig. 2        shows a cross section through an exemplary apparatus for producing high
              purity magnesium.
Fig. 3        shows a cross section through a further exemplary apparatus for producing
              high-purity magnesium.
In figure 1 the elements of the first apparatus example are illustrated purposefully in
geometrically simple form in order to emphasize the fact that the central inventive concept
is based less on the specific form of these parts, but more on the functionality of these parts
in conjunction with the temperature distribution within the retort. The starting material 2 in
the form of a magnesium-containing metal melt is present together with the upper region
32 of a condensation vessel 3, preferably made of a high-purity graphite, in the upper
region 11 of a retort 1 produced for example from stainless steel and having an arbitrary
cross section, wherein a cylindrical cross section is most favourable in practice. The upper
region 11 of the retort is brought by a heating element 5 surrounding it, for example in the
form of a resistance furnace, to a temperature above the boiling point of the magnesium,
within the limits of the level lines 8 and 81, and is then held constant, such that steam rises
from the boiling magnesium-containing metal melt 2 in accordance with the arrows 91 and
fills the interior of the upper region 11 of the retort 1, wherein it can also condense into
liquid above the level line 81 and then flows back downwards again into the melt 2. Since
stainless steel reacts slightly with liquid magnesium, the magnesium melt is contaminated
by the alloy elements of the stainless steel upon contact therewith, however, since these
elements have an irregularly lower steam pressure compared with magnesium, this
contamination is not noticeable in the steam.
                                                                                       13077P-WO

                                               -5
In order to prevent contaminated melt that drops from the region above the level line from
reaching the opening 31 of the condensation vessel 3, this is protected by a cover 4,
selectively also consisting of graphite, which conveys the impure magnesium back again
into the melt 2. The cover 4 can be supported here directly on the upper region 32 of the
condensation vessel 3 or can also be connected laterally or from above to the inner wall of
the retort. In any case however, the fastening has to be formed such that the cover can be
removed temporarily without difficulty in order to remove the solidified high-purity
magnesium 21 from the condensation vessel 3.
The melt of the magnesium-containing starting material 2 is in direct contact with the outer
surface of the condensation vessel 3 in the region 32 during the distillation process in the
case of this apparatus example. Since, at the end of the distillation process, practically all
starting material is evaporated, the condensation vessel is empty again. Any melt that has
infiltrated into the gap between the region 31 of the condensation vessel and the region 12
of the retort is irrelevant here, since the condensation vessel does not necessarily have to be
removed from the retort in order to remove the solidified magnesium. The steam
infiltrating into the upper region 32 of the graphite crucible in accordance with the arrow
92 condenses below the level line 8 and collects as high-purity melt 21 in the lower region
33 of the graphite crucible. In order to prevent a boiling of this high-purity melt 21, a
minimum pressure can be maintained within the retort by means of an inert gas, for
example argon, which brings the boiling point of the magnesium above the temperature
prevailing in the region 33. Here, the temperature profile in particular of the lower part 33
of the condensation vessel 3 is determined by a separately adjustable heating element 51.
Via a barrier unit 6, for example in the form of a disc valve, which is pressed against a seat
62, for example in the form of a ceramic or graphite felt packing, via an externally
actuatable push rod 61 that can be displaced through a vacuum feedthrough, the retort 1
can be connected to the supply chamber 13 upon movement of the push rod 61 in the
direction of the arrow 93. Here, the barrier unit 6 with the valve disc and the seat 62 is
present in the current example together with the upper region 11 of the retort 1 above the
level line 81, that is to say at a temperature above the melting point of magnesium, such
                                                                                      13 077P-WO

                                             -6
that solid magnesium cannot be deposited in the region of the barrier unit, whereby the
function thereof is ensured.
The supply chamber 13, in its colder region above the level line 82, which symbolises the
isotherm of the melting point, has a cover 14, preferably in the form of a removable
vacuum flange, which has a number of connections besides the vacuum feedthrough 63.
Here, one connection leads via a line 71 and a valve 72 to a vacuum pump 73, a further
connection leads via a line 74 to a vacuum measuring instrument 75, and a third connection
leads via a line 76, a valve 77 and a pressure and/or flow regulator 78 to an inert gas source
79, for example in the form of an argon pressure cylinder.
Once the retort 1 has been evacuated via the supply chamber 13 and then brought to the
temperatures necessary for the distillation process, the barrier unit 6 is then opened only
for a short period for the purpose of pressure adjustment and pressure correction so as to
avoid excessive condensation of magnesium steam in the supply chamber 13. The duration
of the closed periods is dependent here on the rise of pressure during the closed periods. In
the ideal case, with sufficient degassing of highly gas-releasing parts, for example
consisting of a graphite of low quality, or with use of parts made of high-purity graphite,
the barrier unit 6 can remain closed for a long period of time and is only opened briefly at
long intervals for the purpose of pressure monitoring. If the pressure in the meantime rises
above an upper setpoint value, whereby the evaporation process of the starting material 2 is
hindered, the retort 1 can be connected to the vacuum pump 73, by opening the valve 72,
until the pressure has reduced again into the setpoint range. If, however, the pressure has
fallen below the setpoint range, whereby there is a risk of evaporation of the high-purity
magnesium melt present in the lower region 33 of the condensation vessel 3, the retort 1 is
connected to the inert gas source 79 via the flow and/or pressure regulator 78 by opening
the valve 77 until the pressure has risen again into the setpoint range. In both cases the
barrier unit 6 is closed immediately once the setpoint pressure range has been reached in
order to prevent excess infiltration of magnesium steam into the supply chamber 31.
As soon as the distillation process in accordance with the apparatus example of image 1 is
finished and the retort 1 is cooled with its contents to room temperature, the retort can be
                                                                                      13077P-WO

                                              -7
opened, for example by a sawn cut along the dashed level line 83, whereupon the high
purity magnesium 21 present in the lower region 33 of the condensation vessel 3 can be
removed from the crucible following removal of the cover 4, for example by turning the
entire apparatus on its head. New starting material 2 can be introduced through the opening
into the evaporation region 111 of the retort in a similar manner. Then, the retort 1 has to
be joined together again to the supply chamber 13 in a vacuum-tight manner, for example
by means of a welding or soldering process.
The heating elements 5 and 51 used in this example according to figure 1 are resistance
heating elements controlled to constant temperatures, which are located at points of the
retort relevant for the distillation process, that is to say for example in the region of the
upper region of the retort contacted by the melt of the starting material in order to adjust
the temperature of the evaporation process, and in the lower region 33 of the condensation
vessel 3 and the immediate environment of the barrier unit 6 in order to check whether the
temperature in these regions is above the melting point of magnesium. Instead of the
resistance heating elements 5 and 51, two induction coils or a single induction coil wound
in accordance with the temperature distribution can of course also be provided, which heat
the retort and/or the materials present therein.
Figure 2 shows an example of an apparatus according to the invention that is particularly
suitable for rational operation under industrial conditions, wherein like numbers denote
parts having the same function as in figure 1. Here, the retort 1 is welded together as
central symmetrical tubular body to an upper region 11 of larger diameter and to a lower
region 12 of smaller diameter consisting of a superalloy, wherein the lower region 12
extends in a tubular extension 15 into the upper region 11 of the retort. The melt of the
starting material 2 is thus present in an annular crucible, of which the side walls are formed
by the wall region 111 of the upper region 11 of the retort 1 and the tubular extension 15,
such that the melt does not come into contact with the outer wall of the condensation
vessel.
In this example of the apparatus according to the invention, the tubular extension 15 and
the lower region 12 of the retort have, internally, an inner wall with continuous conicity,
                                                                                      13077P-WO

                                             -8
such that the condensation vessel 3 in the form of a crucible consisting of high-purity
graphite, which has a corresponding conicity of the outer lateral surface, does not provide a
gap for the infiltration of condensing magnesium melt. In contrast to the apparatus example
according to figure 1, where the condensation vessel 3 has a cylindrical inner bore, since
the solidified pure magnesium block can generally be easily removed as a result of the
large shrinkage, the condensation vessel 3 in the present apparatus example also has a
conical inner face, such that the high-purity magnesium block 21 can be removed even
more easily following solidification.
The opening 31 in the condensation vessel 3 is covered by a roof-shaped graphite cover 41
with radial bores leading upwardly at an incline for the entry of the magnesium steam
according to arrow 92. The cover 41 can also be formed in a manner more complex than
that in the figure, for example by also placing lateral screens in front of the radial bores,
such that no splashes of the fiercely boiling melt of the starting material 2 can be flung
directly into the condensation vessel 3.
The barrier unit is configured here in the form of a conical metal stopper 64, which seals
with respect to the conical seat 113 of the intermediate wall 112. This sealing process is
also assisted by the fact that liquid magnesium condenses in the seal gap between the metal
stopper 64 and the seat 113 and prevents the passage of magnesium steam. The push rod
61, by means of which the barrier unit can be closed in the direction of the arrow 92, is
actuated externally through a vacuum feedthrough 63 with ring seal 631, wherein this can
be performed manually or automatically via a control pulse. Instead of the ring seal 631,
the push rod 61 could also be introduced through the flange 14 into the supply chamber 13
in a sealing manner, for example by means of a metal bellow. The flange 14 is sealed in the
example by means of a ring seal 141 with respect to the cylindrical supply chamber 13.
The lines 71, 74 and 76 lead, as in the previous example, to a vacuum pump 73, a vacuum
measuring instrument 75 and selectively to an inert gas source, however electrically
actuatable valves 72 and 77 are used here, and therefore, besides the barrier unit 64 for
connecting the retort 1 to the supply chamber 13, the pressure can also be reduced and
                                                                                     13077P-WO

                                                -9
increased automatically in the direction of a setpoint pressure range in the sense described
with the previous example within the scope of a control circuit.
In contrast to the previous example, only the upper region 11 of the retort 1 is heated in
this apparatus with a heating element 5, for example in the form of a tubular resistance
heating furnace, whereas the lower region 12 is surrounded by an insulation layer 52,
which is dimensioned such that the heat passing from the upper region by means of
thermal conduction through the retort wall 12 and the wall 32 of the condensation vessel as
well as the downwardly travelling heat caused by the condensation of the magnesium
steam, in combination with the cooling effect of the region of the retort wall 12 not
insulated at the bottom, holds the temperature of the condensed high-purity magnesium
melt in the desired range between the melting temperature and the boiling temperature. The
temperature profile within the retort 1 can also be changed as desired within a certain range
by shifting the retort in the vertical direction with respect to the furnace and insulation.
The temperature of the high-purity magnesium melt 21 can be controlled via a temperature
sensor 53, for example a jacket thermocouple of type K or J, which extends via a
protuberance of the wall 12 into the foot of the lower region 32 of the condensation vessel
3, and, where applicable, can be controlled such that it does not fall below the melting
point of the magnesium. The moment at which the last residue of the starting material is
evaporated can be determined by means of a second temperature sensor 54, for example
likewise a jacket thermocouple, which measures the temperature within the melt of the
starting material 2 via a protuberance of the wall of the region 111 of the retort. At this
moment, where the cooling effect of the evaporation process ceases, there is specifically a
sudden increase of the temperature of this thermocouple. The third temperature sensor 55
sits tightly above the barrier unit 64 in a protuberance of the lower region of the wall of the
supply chamber 13 and makes it possible to check whether this barrier unit is above the
temperature of the melting point of magnesium, since only then is the correct function of
this barrier unit ensured. At the end of a furnace cycle, that is to say prior to the cooling of
the facility, the barrier unit 64 should be lifted from the seat face 113 so that it is not
soldered thereto.
                                                                                        13077P-WO

                                             - 10
In the first example of an apparatus, a variant of the heating system with two independent
heating elements is presented, but in the present second example the upper retort region is
heated by means of a heating element 5, wherein the lower region 12 surrounded by the
thermal insulation is also heated indirectly by the upper region, wherein the heat
introduced by the condensation of the magnesium steam also contributes. In the sense of
the process according to the invention, apparatuses having a plurality of furnaces arranged
in succession in the vertical direction are also possible, such that the upper and the lower
part of the retort and additionally also the region of the barrier unit 6 can be controlled
separately in each case to their specific temperature by means of a dedicated heating
element.
Figure 3 shows a third example of an apparatus according to the invention, which is largely
similar to the apparatus shown in figure 2. In contrast to this apparatus shown there,
however, the condensation vessel 3 in the present example has a cylindrical outer face,
whereby an annular gap is produced between this outer face and the inner lateral surface of
the lower region 12 of the retort 1. By removing a selectively water-cooled flange 15, the
crucible can be removed downwardly from the retort. In order to prevent magnesium steam
from infiltrating into this gap and condensing into liquid in its lower region or into solid
below the crucible base 34, this flange 15 has a feed line 761 with a flow regulation
element 781, through which gas originating from an inert gas source can be introduced into
the space beneath the base 34 of the condensation vessel 3. The quantity of the fed inert
gas is such here that its speed in the gap outside the condensation vessel 3 is so high that it
exceeds the diffusion rate of the magnesium steam potentially ready for migration in the
opposite direction. As a result of this addition of inert gas, the pressure rise within the
retort is indeed accelerated, whereby the intervals within which the barrier unit 64 has to be
opened for the purpose of pressure control and regulation are somewhat shorter, however
this reduction is insignificant, since only small quantities of inert gas are necessary to keep
the gap free.
The figures do not show the control circuits and mechanisms that are necessary to keep
constant the temperatures and the pressure of the apparatuses, since their functioning, apart
                                                                                       13077P-WO

                                               - 11
from the accuracy necessary for the execution of the process, is insignificant for the
execution of the process.
In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Statements
An embodiment relates to a process for producing high-purity magnesium by distillation at
reduced pressure, characterised in that a starting material in the form of a magnesium
containing metal melt with the upper region of a crucible-shaped condensation vessel,
which is formed from a material inert with respect to magnesium and which has an
opening that provides protection against ingress of contaminated refluxing magnesium
melt by a cover inert with respect to magnesium and that allows the entry of magnesium
steam, in the upper part of a vacuum-tight retort which can be externally heated to different
temperatures by one or more heating elements in the horizontal direction and which is
made of a material that is largely inert with respect to magnesium or at least does not
release impurities capable of evaporation is at a temperature above the melting point and in
the immediate region of the magnesium-containing melt and the opening of the crucible
shaped condensation vessel is above the boiling point of magnesium, wherein the lower
region of the crucible-shaped condensation vessel in a tapering region of the retort, closely
surrounding the lower region of said condensation vessel, is in a temperature gradient
between the boiling point and melting point of magnesium, and in that the retort can be
connected at least temporarily via a barrier unit to a supply chamber, which in turn can be
connected via lines and a valve to a vacuum pump, via a further line to a vacuum
measuring instrument, and via a third line and a valve to an inert gas source, wherein the
                                                                                         13 07P-WO

                                              - 12
pressure within the retort during the distillation process is held in a setpoint pressure range,
that is to say is reduced on the one hand to such an extent that the boiling point of the
magnesium reduces to a temperature that is thermally sustainable for the material of the
retort and on the other hand is held by selective addition of inert gas at a minimum value,
at which the boiling point of the pure magnesium melt present in the lower region of the
crucible-like condensation vessel is not exceeded.
The process may be characterised in that the barrier unit, for the purpose of pressure
balancing between the retort and the supply chamber, is opened at intervals, whereupon the
pressure detected by the vacuum measuring instrument and converted by a converter into
an electric signal, after comparison with a setpoint pressure range via a control circuit,
connects the retort either via an electrically actuatable valve to the vacuum pump or via
another electrically actuatable valve to an inert gas source, until the setpoint pressure range
is reached, wherein the magnitude of the pressure change implemented during the last
closed period of the barrier unit selectively determines the duration of the next closed
period.
The process may be characterised in that inert gas is introduced into the gap between the
inner lateral surface of the lower region of the retort and the outer lateral surface of the
lower region of the crucible-like condensation vessel via a needle valve in a flow quantity
that prevents magnesium steam and/or magnesium melt from infiltrating into this gap.
An apparatus for carrying out the process described herein in which a starting material in
the form of a magnesium-containing metal melt is arranged within the upper region of a
retort together with the upper region of a crucible-like condensation vessel with a cover
located above its opening, wherein the retort tapering in its lower region closely surrounds
the lower part of the crucible-like condensation vessel, and in that the retort is connected
via a barrier unit to a supply chamber, which is connected via a line and a valve to a
vacuum pump, via a second line to a vacuum measuring instrument, and via a third line
and a valve, selectively in series with a flow and/or pressure regulation apparatus, to an
inert gas source, and in that at least part of the upper region of the retort can be heated by
at least one heating element which is arranged externally around this region and can be
                                                                                       13077P-WO

                                                - 13
controlled to constant temperature, whereas the lower region of the retort can be heated,
either directly by at least one heating element which is arranged externally around this
region and can be controlled to constant temperature and/or indirectly by insulation which
is arranged around this region and protects against heat extraction, in order to attain a
desired temperature profile.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the barrier unit at a temperature above the
melting point is arranged between the upper end face of the retort located below and below
the lower end face of the supply chamber, and in that the supply chamber can be sealed
outwardly by a selectively cooled flange arranged on the upper end face of said supply
chamber, wherein the barrier unit can be actuated by a rod guided outwardly in a vacuum
tight manner through the flange and can be removed together with the flange following the
end of the distillation process or of a furnace cycle once cooling has been performed, and
in that the clear opening of the barrier unit is of such a size that new magnesium-containing
material is introduced into the evaporation zone through this opening and the condensed
and solidified pure magnesium can also be removed from the crucible-like condensation
vessel following temporary removal of the cover arranged above its opening.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the retort and the barrier unit consist of
stainless steel or a heat-resistant steel or a superalloy.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the crucible-like condensation vessel and the
cover arranged above its opening consist of a high-purity graphite.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the crucible-like condensation vessel has an
inner lateral surface opening conically upwards.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the condensation vessel has, at least in its lower
region, an upwardly opening conical outer lateral surface, which sits in a sealing manner
on the correspondingly conically formed inner lateral surface of the lower region of the
retort.
                                                                                     n1027P-Wo

                                              - 14
The apparatus may be characterised in that the condensation vessel, at least in its lower
region, has a cylindrical or downwardly opening conical lateral surface, which sits in a
largely sealing manner on the correspondingly conically formed inner lateral surface of the
lower region of the retort, and in that, on the lower end face of the retort, a flange provided
selectively with an inert gas line is arranged, following the temporary removal of which the
crucible-like condensation vessel can be removed downwardly from the retort between two
furnace cycles and once cooling has been performed.
The apparatus may be characterised in that the crucible-like condensation vessel is
arranged with its longitudinal axis along the longitudinal axis of the central symmetrical
retort, wherein the part of the crucible-like condensation vessel present in the upper region
of the condensation vessel is separated, by a partition wall surrounding it closely and
connecting it tightly at the bottom to the retort, from the starting material surrounding it in
a concentrated manner in the form of the magnesium-containing metal melt, wherein this
partition wall preferably consists of the same material as the retort.
                                                                                       13077P-WO

                                             - 15
List of reference signs
1       retort, generally
11      upper region of retort
111     region of 11 in contact with starting material
112     intermediate wall of 11 and 13
113     conical seat for 64 in 112
114     protuberance of the retort wall as protection for temperature sensor 54
12      lower tapered region of retort
121     protuberance of the supply chamber wall as protection for temperature sensor 53
13      supply chamber
131     protuberance of the retort wall as protection for temperature sensor 55
14      vacuum flange
141     ring seal
15      vacuum flange
151     ring seal
2       magnesium-containing metal starting melt
21      high-purity magnesium melt
3       condensation vessel, generally
31      opening in condensation crucible
32      upper zone of condensation crucible
33      lower zone of condensation crucible
4       cover
41      cover with lateral openings
5       heating system for region 11
51      heating system for region 12
52      insulation for region 12
                                                                                  13077P-WO

                                          - 16
53  temperature sensor in base zone of condensation vessel
531 protective pipe for temperature sensor
54  temperature sensor for evaporation zone
55  temperature sensor for region of barrier unit 64
6   barrier unit
61  push rod of barrier unit
62  seal seat for barrier unit
63  vacuum feedthrough for push rod
631 ring seal
64  barrier unit with conical seat
71  connection line to vacuum pump
72  barrier unit to vacuum pump
73  vacuum pump
74  connection line to vacuum measuring instrument
75  vacuum measuring instrument
76  connection line to barrier unit
761 connection line to flow regulator for inert gas
77  barrier unit
78  flow regulator for inert gas
781 flow regulator for inert gas
79  inert gas source
8   lower level limit for temperature range above boiling point
81  upper level limit for temperature range above boiling point
82  upper level limit for temperature range above melting point
83  level line of possible sawn cut
91  arrow, steam generation
92  arrow, steam entry into condensation vessel
93  arrow, lifting direction of barrier unit 6
                                                                13077P-WO

                                              - 17
Patent Claims
1.      A process for producing high-purity magnesium by means of distillation at reduced
pressure whereby,
        the high-purity magnesium condenses in the liquid state, whereby the starting
        material in the form of a magnesium-containing melt is present together with the
        upper region of a condensation vessel in the upper region of a retort,
        whereby the retort consist of a material that releases no volatile impurities into the
        magnesium steam,
        whereby the upper region of the retort is brought to a temperature above the boiling
        point of magnesium, within the limits of two level lines, and is then held constant,
        such that steam rises from the boiling magnesium-containing metal melt and fills
        the interior of the upper region of the retort, and
        whereby the steam infiltrating the upper region of the condensation vessel
        condenses below the lower level line and collects as high-purity melt in the lower
        region of the condensation vessel.
2.      The Process according to claim 1, whereby in order to prevent contaminated melt
that drops from the region above the upper level line from reaching the opening of the
condensation vessel, this is protected by a cover, which conveys the impure magnesium
back again into the melt.
3.      The process according to claim 1 or 2, whereby the retort is heated by a heating
system outside the retort.
4.      The process according to claim any one of the preceding claims, whereby a
minimum pressure is maintained within the retort, which brings the boiling point of the
magnesium above the temperature prevailing in the lower region of the condensation
vessel.
                                                                                       13 077P-WO

                                              - 18
5.       The process according to any one of the preceding claims, whereby the retort is
evacuated via the supply chamber and then brought to the temperatures necessary for the
distillation process.
6.       The process according to any one of the preceding claims, whereby the pressure in
the supply chamber is monitored.
7.       Apparatus for performing the process according to any one of the preceding
claims, comprising:
         a retort and a condensation vessel,
         whereby the upper region of the condensation vessel is in the upper region of the
         retort,
         whereby the upper region of the retort is surrounded by a heating element, suitable
         for heating the upper region of the retort between two different level lines to a
         temperature above the boiling point of magnesium,
         and whereby the condensation vessel is arranged in a way, that the lower part of the
         condensation vessel is located below the lower level line.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the condensation vessel is protected by a
    cover.
9. The apparatus according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the retort is made of stainless steel.
10. The apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the cover is consisting of
    graphite.
11. The apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein a supply chamber is
    connected to the retort, whereby the supply chamber is connected with means for
    evacuating the retort.
12. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the supply chamber is arranged above
    the retort.
                                                                                        n 1027P-Wo

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

