1002005518
ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         A tension member for a lifting and/or hoisting system includes a core
including a plurality of load carrying fibers arranged in a matrix material, and an outer
layer secured to the core including a plurality of outer fibers arranged around a
perimeter of the core. The outer layer includes one or more outer fibers arranged off
axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core. A method of forming a tension
member for an elevator system includes arranging a plurality of load carrying fibers
along a length of the tension member, retaining the plurality of load carrying fibers in
a matrix material to define a core, and enclosing the core in an outer layer including a
plurality of outer fibers arranged around a perimeter of the core. The outer layer
includes one or more outer fibers arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers
of the core.

1002005518
               OVERBRAIDED NON-METALLIC TENSION MEMBERS
BACKGROUND
          [0001] Embodiments disclosed herein relate to elevator systems, and more
particularly, to a tension member configured for use in an elevator system.
          [0002] Elevator systems are useful for carrying passengers, cargo, or both,
between various levels in a building. Some elevators are traction based and utilize
load bearing members such as ropes or belts for supporting the elevator car and
achieving the desired movement and positioning of the elevator car.
          [0003] As buildings reach new heights in their construction, with some
architectural designs over 1 kilometer, more advanced hoisting methods are necessary
for efficient transport of people and materials throughout the building. One limitation
of conventional hoisting is the weight of conventional steel cable as it is only capable
of rises of ~ 700 m. To address this, tension members have been developed using
carbon fiber tension elements as these have a substantially higher specific strength
and will allow hoisting solutions that can accommodate the proposed architectural
designs of over 1 kilometer and there is an advantage of using lightweight tension
members in buildings of even rises down to ~ 300 m.
          [0004] Where ropes are used as load bearing members, each individual rope is
not only a traction device for transmitting the pulling forces but also participates
directly in the transmission of the traction forces.   Where belts are used as a load
bearing member, a plurality of tension elements are embedded in an elastomer belt
body. The tension elements are exclusively responsible for transmitting the pulling
forces, while the elastomer material transmits the traction forces. Due to their light
weight and high strength, tension members formed from unidirectional               fibers
arranged in a rigid matrix composite provide significant benefits when used in
elevator systems, particularly high rise systems.     The fibers are impregnated with
thermosetting resins and then cured to form rigid composites that are surrounded with
the elastomer to provide traction for the belt.
                                             1

1002005518
BRIEF SUMMARY
          [0005] In one embodiment, a tension member for a lifting and/or hoisting
system includes a core including a plurality of load carrying fibers arranged in a
matrix material, and an outer layer secured to the core including a plurality of outer
fibers arranged around a perimeter of the core. The outer layer includes one or more
outer fibers arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core.
          [0006] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the outer
layer includes a plurality of outer fibers braided to form the outer layer.
          [0007] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of load carrying fibers include one or more of carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, and
polymer fibers.
          [0008] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the matrix
material is one or more of polyurethane, vinylester or epoxy.
          [0009] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of outer fibers are formed from the same material as the plurality of load carrying
fibers.
          [0010] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the core is
formed by a pultrusion process.
          [0011] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of load carrying fibers extend along an axial length of the tension member.
          [0012] In another embodiment, a belt for suspending and/or driving an
elevator car includes a plurality of tension members extending along a length of the
belt, each tension member including a core including a plurality of load carrying
fibers arranged in a matrix material and an outer layer secured to the core including a
plurality of outer fibers arranged around a perimeter of the core. The outer layer
includes one or more outer fibers arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers
                                              2

1002005518
of the core. A jacket at least partially encapsulates the plurality of tension members to
retain the plurality of tension members.
          [0013] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of tension members are arranged along a lateral width of the belt.
          [0014] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the outer
layer includes a plurality of outer fibers braided to form the outer layer.
          [0015] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of load carrying fibers include one or more of carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, and
polymer fibers.
          [0016] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of outer fibers are formed from the same material as the plurality of load carrying
fibers.
          [0017] In yet another embodiment, a method of forming a tension member for
an elevator system includes arranging a plurality of load carrying fibers along a length
of the tension member, retaining the plurality of load carrying fibers in a matrix
material to define a core, and enclosing the core in an outer layer including a plurality
of outer fibers arranged around a perimeter of the core. The outer layer includes one
or more outer fibers arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core.
          [0018] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments enclosing
the core in an outer layer includes braiding the plurality of outer fibers around the
core.
          [0019] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the outer
layer is impregnated with an outer matrix material.
          [0020] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the tension
member is formed via a continuous manufacturing process.
          [0021] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the tension
member is cut to a selected length.
                                              3

1002005518
          [0022] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of outer fibers are formed from the same material as the plurality of load carrying
fibers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0023] The subject matter is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed at
the conclusion of the specification. The foregoing and other features, and advantages
of the present disclosure are apparent from the following detailed description taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:
          [0024] FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an example of a traction elevator
system;
          [0025] FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of an exemplary embodiment of a
tension member for an elevator system;
          [0026] FIG. 3 is a schematic view of a plurality of tension members installed
at a sheave;
          [0027] FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of another exemplary embodiment of a
tension member; and
          [0028] FIG. 5 is a schematic view of a process for manufacturing a tension
member.
          [0029] The detailed description explains disclosed embodiments, together
with advantages and features, by way of example with reference to the drawings.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0030] Shown in FIG. 1, is a schematic view of an exemplary traction elevator
system 10. Features of the elevator system 10 that are not required for an
understanding of the present invention (such as the guide rails, safeties, etc.) are not
discussed herein. The elevator system 10 includes an elevator car 12 operatively
suspended or supported in a hoistway 14 with one or more tension members 16. The
                                              4

1002005518
one or more tension members 16 interact with one or more sheaves 18 to be routed
around various components of the elevator system 10. The one or more tension
members 16 could also be connected to a counterweight 22, which is used to help
balance the elevator system 10 and reduce the difference in belt tension on both sides
of the traction sheave during operation.
          [0031] The sheaves 18 each have a diameter 20, which may be the same or
different than the diameters of the other sheaves 18 in the elevator system 10. At least
one of the sheaves could be a traction sheave 52. The traction sheave 52 is driven by a
machine 50. Movement of drive sheave by the machine 50 drives, moves and/or
propels (through traction) the one or more tension members 16 that are routed around
the traction sheave 52. At least one of the sheaves 18 could be a diverter, deflector or
idler sheave. Diverter, deflector or idler sheaves are not driven by a machine 50, but
help guide the one or more tension members 16 around the various components of the
elevator system 10.
          [0032] In some embodiments, the elevator system 10 could use two or more
tension members 16 for suspending and/or driving the elevator car 12. In addition, the
elevator system 10 could have various configurations such that either both sides of the
one or more tension members 16 engage the one or more sheaves 18 or only one side
of the one or more tension members 16 engages the one or more sheaves 18. The
embodiment of FIG 1 shows a 1:1 roping arrangement in which the one or more
tension members 16 terminate at the car 12 and counterweight 22, while other
embodiments may utilize other roping arrangements.
          [0033] Referring now to FIG. 2, a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a
tension member 16 is shown. The tension member 16 includes a core 24 formed from
a plurality of individual load carrying          fibers 26 arranged unidirectionally,
substantially in a direction parallel to a tension member 16 length, within a matrix
material 28.
          [0034] Exemplary load carrying fibers 26 used to form the core 24 include,
but are not limited to, carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, and polymer fibers, for example.
                                            5

1002005518
Each of the load carrying fibers 26 within the core 24 may be substantially identical
or may vary. In addition, the matrix material 28 may be formed from any suitable
material, such as polyurethane, vinylester, and epoxy for example. The materials of
the load carrying fibers 26 and the matrix material 28 are selected to achieve a desired
stiffness and strength of the tension member 16.
          [0035] The core 24 may be formed as thin layers, in some embodiments by a
pultrusion process. In a standard pultrusion process, the load carrying fibers 26 are
impregnated with the matrix material 28 and are pulled through a heated die and
additional curing heaters where the matrix material 28 undergoes cross linking.         A
person having ordinary skill in the art will understand that controlled movement and
support of the pulled load carrying fibers 26 may be used to form a desired linear or
curved profile of the untensioned core 24. In an exemplary embodiment, the core 24
has a cross-sectional thickness of about 0.5 millimeters to about 4 millimeters. In
another embodiment, the core 24 has a cross-sectional thickness of 1 millimeter.
Further, in some embodiments the core 24 has a circular cross-section, while in other
embodiments the core 24 may have other cross-sectional shapes, such as rectangular
or oval.
          [0036] The tension member 16 further includes an outer layer 30 formed from
braided or woven fibers that substantially envelops the core 24. The outer layer 30
may be applied to the core 24 by, for example wrapping around the core 24 or
braiding around the core 24. The outer layer 30 is formed from fibers of, for example,
carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, or polymer fibers. In some embodiments, the outer layer
30 material is the same as the core 24 material, while in other embodiments the
materials may differ. Further, in other embodiments the outer layer 30 is formed from
metallic wires. The braiding of the outer layer 30 orients fibers off-axis relative to the
core 24 to support off-axis stresses on the tension member 16. Further, the outer layer
30 can have lower stiffness which reduces bending stresses and allows the overall
tension member 16 to have a larger thickness or diameter than just an aligned fiber
tension member. While in the embodiment of FIG. 2, the outer layer 30 and the core
24 are separate and distinct, in other embodiments the outer layer 30 and the core may
be intermingled via, for example, the matrix material 28 flowing into the outer layer
                                            6

 1002005518
30 during manufacturing or during post-processing to remove any sharp boundaries
between the core 24 and the outer layer 30. Further, the outer layer 30 can be formed
using materials to improve performance during a fire or thermal event or during other
conditions.
           [0037] Referring now to FIG. 3, in some embodiments one or more tension
members 16 are utilized as cables to support and/or drive the elevator car 12. In such
embodiments, the tension members 16 are routed over the traction sheave 52, which
may include sheave grooves 32 to position the tension members 16 at the traction
sheave 52. In some embodiments, the outer layer 30 is configured to have sufficient
flexibility to conform to the sheave grooves 32.
           [0038] Referring now to FIG. 4, one or more tension members 16 may be
utilized in a belt 34, which suspends and/or drives the elevator car 12. The one or
more tension members 16 are arranged in a jacket 36. The tension members 16 extend
along a length of the belt 34, and are arranged across a lateral width of the belt 34, and
in some embodiments are spaced from each other as shown in FIG. 4.
           [0039] The tension members 16 are at least partially enclosed in the jacket 36,
to restrain movement of the tension members 16 in the belt 34 and protect the tension
members 16. In embodiments including the jacket 36 defines a traction surface 38
configured to contact a corresponding surface of the traction sheave 52. Exemplary
materials for the jacket 36 include the elastomers of thermoplastic and thermosetting
polyurethanes, polyamide, thermoplastic polyester elastomers, and rubber, for
example. Other materials may be used to form the jacket 36 if they are adequate to
meet the required functions of the belt 34. For example, a primary function of the
jacket 36 is to provide a sufficient coefficient of friction between the belt 34 and the
traction sheave 52 to produce a desired amount of traction therebetween. The jacket
36 should also transmit the traction loads to the tension members 16. In addition, the
jacket 36 should be wear resistant and protect the tension members 16 from impact
damage, exposure to environmental factors, such as chemicals, for example. One or
more additive materials may be incorporated into the jacket 36 to enhance
performance such as traction and environmental resistance. In embodiments with the
                                            7

 1002005518
jacket 36, the outer layer 30 with the off-axis fibers promotes improved adhesion
between the tension members 16 and the jacket 36.
           [0040] Referring now to FIG. 5, shown is a schematic view of a process for
manufacturing      a tension member       16, which is illustrated     as a continuous
manufacturing process. Load carrying fibers 26 are fed from a core reel 40, aligned or
grouped, then impregnated with the matrix material 28 at an impregnation bath 42 to
form the core 24. The outer layer 30 is formed over the core 24 by feeding outer yams
44 into a braider 46 and through an impregnation ring 48 to impregnate the braided
outer yams 44 with matrix material. The braided and impregnated outer yams 44 are
positioned around the core 24 and positioned at the core 24 by passing the core 24 and
the outer yams 44 through one or more rollers 54. The assembled core 24 and outer
layer 30 are then passed through an oven 56 or other curing apparatus to at least
partially set the matrix material. The assembly then passes through a puller 58 to
apply tension to the load carrying fibers 26 of the core 24 to their final set position.
The assembly can then be cut to length and/or spooled for subsequent fabrication of
the belt 34.
           [0041] While the present disclosure has been described in detail in connection
with only a limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the
present disclosure is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather, the present
disclosure can be modified to incorporate any number of variations, alterations,
substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described, but which are
commensurate in spirit and/or scope. Additionally, while various embodiments have
been described, it is to be understood that aspects of the present disclosure may
include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly, the present disclosure
is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description, but is only limited by the
scope of the appended claims.
                                             8

1002005518
CLAIMS:
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A tension member for a lifting and/or hoisting system comprising:
         a core including a plurality of load carrying fibers arranged in a matrix
material; and
         an outer layer secured to the core including a plurality of outer fibers arranged
around a perimeter of the core, the outer layer including one or more outer fibers
arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core.
         2. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the outer layer includes a plurality
of outer fibers braided to form the outer layer.
         3. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the plurality of load carrying fibers
comprise one or more of carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, and polymer fibers.
         4. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the matrix material is one or more
of polyurethane, vinylester or epoxy.
         5. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the plurality of outer fibers are
formed from the same material as the plurality of load carrying fibers.
         6. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the core is formed by a pultrusion
process.
         7. The tension member of claim 1, wherein the plurality of load carrying fibers
extend along an axial length of the tension member.
                                              9

1002005518
          8. A belt for suspending and/or driving an elevator car, comprising:
         a plurality of tension members extending along a length of the belt, each
tension member including:
         a core including a plurality of load carrying fibers arranged in a matrix
material; and
         an outer layer secured to the core including a plurality of outer fibers arranged
 around a perimeter of the core, the outer layer including one or more outer fibers
 arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core; and
                 a jacket at least partially encapsulating the plurality of tension
         members to retain the plurality of tension members.
         9. The belt of claim 8, wherein the plurality of tension members are arranged
along a lateral width of the belt.
          10. The belt of claim 8, wherein the outer layer includes a plurality of outer
fibers braided to form the outer layer.
          11. The belt of claim 8, wherein the plurality of load carrying fibers comprise
one or more of carbon, glass, aramid, nylon, and polymer fibers.
          12. The belt of claim 8, wherein the plurality of outer fibers are formed from
the same material as the plurality of load carrying fibers.
          13. A method of forming a tension member for an elevator system comprising:
         arranging a plurality of load carrying fibers along a length of the tension
member;
         retaining the plurality of load carrying fibers in a matrix material to define a
core; and
                                               10

1002005518
         enclosing the core in an outer layer including a plurality of outer fibers
arranged around a perimeter of the core, the outer layer including one or more outer
fibers arranged off-axis relative to the load carrying fibers of the core.
          14. The method of claim 13, wherein enclosing the core in an outer layer
includes braiding the plurality of outer fibers around the core.
          15. The method of claim 13, further comprising impregnating the outer layer
with an outer matrix material.
          16. The method of claim 13, further comprising forming the tension member
via a continuous manufacturing process.
          17. The method of claim 16, further comprising cutting the tension member to
a selected length.
          18. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of outer fibers are formed
from the same material as the plurality of load carrying fibers.
                                             11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/5

