                                          ABSTRACT
Describes a system for decentralized ordering of goods and/or services such as food
and/or drinks at a venue such as a hotel or restaurant. The venue uploads a venue menu
to an internet site via the venue's data device or computer.           An order application is
downloaded by prospective customers from the internet site to the mobile data device of
each customer. In addition, the venue allocates a customer identification code to each
customer which is stored in the customer's mobile data device. Therefore the customer
can use his mobile data device to access the venue's menu and order items from the
menu. Furthermore, the GPS facility inherent in the customer's mobile data device may
be used to alert the customer if the customer should inadvertently leave the venue with a
credit facility still open, thus enabling a valuable credit card, for example, to be retrieved.

WO 2012/135896                                                                PCT/AU2012/000336
                   RETAIL VENUE ORDERING SYSTEM AND METHOD
    Field of the Invention
    The present invention relates to an ordering system and method for a retail
    establishment such that those which sell food and drink to their customers. Such retail
    establishments include bars, hotels, resorts, restaurants, and the like.
    Back round Art
    The traditional method of ordering food and drink in a restaurant or diner is that the
    customer sits at a location such as a table (that may well be numbered to facilitate
    identification of a table) and the order is taken by a waiter or waitress. When the
    order is ready to be filled, the waiter or waitress then delivers the food to the table.
    In a modification of this technique, it is known to take orders at a central location and
    an ordering customer after having ordered is then given a table number which is
    displayed on the table that the customer then selects. The order when completed is
    bought by a waiter or waitress to the customer's indicated table.
    In an effort to reduce the number of waiting staff, it is also known to take orders at a
    central location and to provide the ordering customer with a radio device which the
    customer then takes with him to the table.        On completion of the order, the radio
    device is activated and the customer then returns to the central location, returns the
    radio device, and collects the meal.
    It is also known for some home delivery food orders, such as pizzas sold by PIZZA
    HUT (Registered Trade Mark), to provide an internet based service in which
    customers order and pay for their food utilizing a credit card.         The order is then
    relayed to the nearest PIZZA HUT branch which then fills the order and makes the
    necessary delivery.

WO 2012/135896                                                               PCT/AU2012/000336
   Genesis of the Invenion
   The genesis of the present invention is a desire to utilize the current proliferation of
   personal mobile data devices such as smart telephones to assist in the ordering of food
   and/or drinks.
   Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a method
   of placing orders at a retail venue having a plurality of customers each of whom has a
   mobile data device, said method comprising the steps of:
          (i)      said venue uploading a venue menu to an internet site via a data device
   of said venue;
          (ii)     downloading an order application from said site to the mobile data
   devices of said customers;
          (iii)    allocating a customer identification code by said venue to each said
   customer and storing said code in said mobile data device of the corresponding
   customer; and
          (iv)     a customer allocated a corresponding one of said customer
   identification codes accessing said menu via his mobile data device, and ordering one
   or more items from said menu.
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   system for placing orders at a retail venue having a plurality of customers each of
   whom has a mobile data device, said system comprising a venue menu uploaded from
   a data device of said venue to an internet site, an order application downloaded from
   said site to the mobile data devices of said customers, and a customer identification
   code allocated by said venue to each said customer and stored in said mobile data
   device of the corresponding customer; said order application being such that a
   costumer can utilize his mobile data device to access said menu, and his stored said
   code, to order one or more items from said menu.
   Brief Descrition of the Drawings
   A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in which:
                                               2

WO 2012/135896                                                                 PCT/AU2012/000336
            Fig. I is a schematic view of a retail establishment;
            Fig. 2 is a flow chart illustrating a series of steps undertaken by a venue; and
            Fig. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a series of steps undertaken by a customer
   and to which the venue responds.
   Detailed Description
   As seen in Fig. 1, a venue 1 takes the form of a restaurant trading under the name
   THE HUT and being part of a hotel 2 providing accommodation. The venue 1 has
   tables 3 adjacent a swimming pool.
   The venue I includes a conventional computer 6 only part of which is visible through
   a window of the venue I and the remainder of which is illustrated in phantom in Fig.
   1. The computer 6 is connected.via telephone lines 7 (or via mobile telephony) to a
   host computer 8 which is connected to the internet 9 and to the mobile telephone
   system 10.
   Turning now to Fig. 2, the venue I first of all as indicated in step 201 subscribes to
   the retail ordering system which is provided by a vendor, not illustrated, but which
   has access to the host computer 8 and maintains a website on the internet. Having
   subscribed to the system operated by the vendor, the venue I then as indicated in step
   202, either receives an iPAD type device (iTD) 13 (Fig. i) from the vendor, or utilizes
   an existing iPAD type device 13 of the vendor. iPAD is a Registered Trade Mark.
   (Alternatively, the venue may have an existing iPAD which it would prefer to use).
   The venue I then, as indicated at step 203 uploads a menu (or Bill of Fare), also not
   illustrated, which indicates the various items for sale by the venue I and the price of
   each item. The WAD type device 13 is maintained at, or in the vicinity of, the venue
    1.
   The venue downloads from the vendor via the internet an iTD application which is
   preferably known by the trade mark AIRSERVICE.
   The venue I has a number of customers such as 15 and 16 (Fig. 1)each of which have
   their own mobile data device 18 such as a smart phone such as one of those sold under
                                                   3

WO 2012/135896                                                                PCT/AU2012/000336
   the Registered Trade Marks iPHONE, BLACKBERRY, WINDOWS MOBILE 7
   (including new NOKIA/MICROSOFT devices) or ANDROID operating system
   phone, etc.
   Utilizing their mobile data devices 18, the customers 15, 16 are able, as indicated at
   step 301 of Fig. 3, to download from the vendor via the internet, a mobile data device
   application which preferably is also known by the trade mark AIRSERVICE. Once
   this application is downloaded, the customers 15, 16 are then able, as indicated at step
   302, to request the venue I that they open a credit facility. This is preferably done by
   the customer sending a "connection request" via his mobile data device 18 to the
   venue's iPAD. Normally this involves leaving a credit card, or credit card details,
   with the venue. Once this happens, the venue 1 then not only allocates a credit
   facility (step 205) but also allocates a customer unique account number or a customer
   identification code or PIN (step 204) which is downloaded to the customer's mobile
   data device 18. The customer also indicates his intended location which may be a
   room number of a hotel, or a table number of a restaurant, or similar.
   Once these preliminary activities have been undertaken, any of the customers 15, 16
   are able to use their mobile data device 18 to communicate with the venue 1 via the
   Internet and, as indicated in step 306, utilize the mobile data device 18 to display the
   venue menu.
    The customer is then able to order one or more items from the displayed venue menu.
    This is indicated at step 307.
    As indicated at step 308, the venue 1 receives the order on the venue iPAD type
    device 13 and then as indicated at step 309 this device then confirms the customer
    order to the customer's mobile data device 18 Such a confirmatory message can also
    be used as a "Push Notification" to explain daily specials or otherwise solicit a further
    order.
                                                 4

WO 2012/135896                                                               PCT/AU2012/000336
   Then venue I prepares the necessary food and beverage order (as indicated at step
   310) and then uses the iTD 13 to announce that the order is ready to the custonier as
   indicated at step 311. Then as indicated in step 312 the venue delivers the order.
   Subsequent orders can be initiated as indicated at step 314 which then initiates a loop
   resulting in the delivery of the subsequent order or orders.
   The fina step 313 is that at the conclusion of the meal or drinks session, or when the
   customer wishes to "close his account", the customer either electronically or in person
   requests the closing of the credit facility. The customer then pays the venue using the
   venue's regular payment system and the venue closes the credit facility.
   A particular advantage of the present invention is that the customers 15, 16 etc all
   already have a mobile data device 18 and so the venue I does not have to provide any
   electronic equipment to its customers. In addition, customers are able to make
   repeated orders but only pay once. Furthermore, the customers are able to use their
   mobile data devices at any venue which subscribes to the AIRSERVICE system via
   the vendor. Thus it is only necessary for the customer 15, 16 etc. to download the
   AIRSERVICE application once, and have a data connection to the internet either via
   3G, 40, or WIFi etc. Each venue will have a different menu and will upload their
   own header, background and the like which will carry the venue's trade marks, logos
   and brands. Consequently, most venues in the system will look completely dissimilar
   to the customer, even though the same computer code is being utilized.
   In addition, because the venue utilizes its regular or an existing payment system, it is
   not necessary for there to be any provision of credit card details over the internet
   between the AIRSERVICE provider (or vendor) and the various customers. This
   considerably simplifies the interrelationship between the AIRSERVICE provider and
   the customers. Furthermore, all customers have their food, drinks, etc delivered within
   the venue premises and so the venue does not need to provide a takeaway delivery
   system.
                                                5

WO 2012/135896                                                                 PCT/AU2012/000336
    The foregoing describes only one embodiment of the present invention and
    modifications, obvious to those skilled in the arts, can be made thereto without
    departing from the scope of the present invention.
    For example, a customer can specify a spend and/or a time limit to the credit facility.
    The customer's MDD can display a continuous running total of the credit facility so
    that the customer always knows his level of indebtedness. The MDD app can be set to
    not allow further ordering after a set spend or time limit.
    Furthermore, utilising the GPS facility already inherent in the customer's MDD and a
    knowledge of the venue's GPS coordinates, if the customer should inadvertently leave
    the venue with a credit facility still open, after a predetermined distance such as 100
    metres or 500 metres, the MDD alerts the customer to the fact that the credit facility is
    still open. This enables a valuable credit card, for example, to be retrieved.
    Pre-ordering is also possible so that a bottle of champagne, for example, can be pre-
    ordered to be delivered at the predetermined location at a specified future time.
    In relation to the venue, the iPAD operator cm suspend service to, for example,
    apparently inebriated customers, for some limited time. The iPAD operator can also
    unilaterally close the credit facility as a way of refusing service to an unruly customer,
    for-example. The customer's delivery location can also be changed to accommodate
    changes in the customer's location.
    In relation to the webpage, the venue is able to customise their menu(s) with uploaded
    photographs, logos, etc. The menu(s) can be changed for certain times of day e.g.
    breakfast, lunch and dinner menus or a functions menu which is limited to a specific
    location. In addition, the venue can include images such as photographs of various
    meal items in the menu. Consequently, the menu functions not only as a menu but as
    an advertising brochure for the venue which is a much more attractive display than a
    conventional menu.
                                                  6

WO 2012/135896                                                                 PCT/AU2012/000336
    Furthermore, as the users of AIRSERVICE become more prolific, even to the extent
    of being ubiquitous, so the venue can completely do away with a printed menu (or
    severely curtail the number of menus printed).
    Another advantage to the venue is the ease of setting up, and if necessary modifying,
    the menu since this is done over the internet.
     The venue is also able to send "push notification messages" regarding specials and/or
    time information such as last orders to all customers, or to customers in a staggered
    sequence of locations. This can be accomplished either from the iPAD or from the
    webpage. The venue operator is also able to track various items of information such as
    turnover, sales of specific items by location and/or time, and the like.
    In a still further modification, the venue instead of providing delivery of ordered
    meals, drinks, etc can send a message to the customer's MDD to say "please collect
    your order" and display on the MDD's screen an indicium (such as a number) which
    identifies the order to the venue's dispensing staff.
    A reduced utility service is also available, particularly, but not exclusively, as a new
    venue sales promotion device, where venue menus are available for display on
    customer's MDD's but no orders are able to be taken. Instead, orders are given and
    paid for in the conventional way. This enables the customer's MDD screen to function
    as a vivid "Printed" menu for such venues.
    Once multiple venues become enabled to use the AIRSERVICE facility, customers
    can use their mobile data device to search for such enabled venues in their local
    vicinity. Such venues can then have their menus considered and browsed before the
    customer actually visits the physical location of the venue.
    The tenn "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the
    inclusive sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of
    "consisting only of".
                                                 7

WO 2012/135896                                                              PCT/AU2012/000336
   CLAIMS
       1. A method of placing orders at a retail venue having a plurality of customers
           each of whom has a mobile data device, said method comprising the steps of:
           (i)     said venue uploading a venue menu to an internet site via a data device
           of said venue;
           (ii)    downloading an order application from said site to the mobile data
           devices of said customers;
           (iii)   allocating a customer identification code by said venue to each said
           customer and storing said code in said mobile data device of the corresponding
          .customer, and
           (iv)    a customer allocated a corresponding one of said customer
           identification codes accessing said menu via his mobile data device, and
           ordering one or more items from said menu.
       2. The method as claimed in claim I wherein said venue has a plurality of venue
           locations at any one of which an ordering customer may be located, and said
           method comprising the further step of:
           (v)     said ordering customer identifying his location whilst applying for a
           credit facility with said venue.
       3. The method as claimed in claim 2 including the further step of:
           (vi)    delivering a completed order to the identified location of the ordering
           customer.
       4. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-3 and including the further step
           of:
           (vii)   said ordering customer on completion of said order receiving on his
           mobile data device an acknowledgement from said venue data device.
       5. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-4 and including the further step
           of:
            (viii)  said venue data device issuing to the ordering customer's mobile data
                                                8

WO 2012/135896                                                               PCT/AU2012/000336
            device a message indicating that a previously placed order is about to be
            delivered.
       6. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-5 wherein said mobile data
            devices and/or said venue data device comprise smart phones.
       7. A system for placing orders at a retail venue having a plurality of customers
            each of whom has a mobile data device, said system comprising a venue menu
            uploaded from a data device of said venue to an internet site, an order
            application downloaded from said site to the mobile data devices of said
            customers, and a customer identification code allocated by said venue to each
            said customer and stored in said mobile data device of the corresponding
            customer; said order application being such that a costumer can utilize his
            mobile data device to access said menu, and his stored said code to order one
            or more items from said menu.
       8. The system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said venue has a plurality of venue
            locations at any one of which an ordering customer may be located, and said
            application is such that an ordering customer can identify his location whilst
            applying to said venue for a credit facility.
       9. The system as claimed in claim 8 wherein a completed order is delivered to
            the identified location of the ordering customer.
        10. The system as claimed in any one of claims 7-9 wherein said application is
            such that on completion of an order an ordering customer receives on his
            mobile data device an acknowledgment from said venue data device.
        I. The system as claimed in any one of claims 7-10 wherein said application is
            such that said venue's data device issues to the ordering customer's mobile
             data device a message indicating that a previously placed order is about to be
             delivered.
                                                  9

WO 2012/135896                                                           PCT/AU2012/000336
       12. The system as claimed any one of claims 7-11 wherein said mobile data
           devices and/or said venue data device comprise smart phones or other similar
           mobile data devices.
                                              10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
