                                                ABSTRACT
   Described herein is a bike including a frame member linking the front and rear wheel(s) made up
   of a first forward section or sections extending from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section
   or sections extending from the rear wheel(s). The section endings mate about a lockable
 5 connection assembly that is also in communication with a seat-post connected to the seat. The
   frame sections pivot about a connection assembly axis in a direction perpendicular to the bike
   frame and the seat-post is able to be moved independent of the frame sections. A key
   advantage of the above bike is the high range of height adjustability allowing the bike to be used
   by range of different sized users. Height adjustment is also very easy and may be done
10 toolessly. Further, maintaining the seat in a desired riding alignment independent of frame
   movement is important otherwise the rider position will change relative to the handlebars leading
   in extreme cases to falls from the bike. Use of gas assisted injection moulding in bike
   manufacture is also described.
15
                                                     21

                                        HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE BIKE
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   Described herein is a height adjustable bike. More specifically, a bike, trike or similar device is
 5 described wherein the seat height and angle may be adjusted via a lockable connection
   assembly located on the bike frame.
   BACKGROUND ART
   Bikes generally comprise a fixed frame configuration with the rider purchasing a frame of an
10 approximate correct size and then adjusting the height of the seat by moving the seat-post. As
   may be appreciated, this limits the range of adjustment possible meaning manufacturers need to
   supply a variety of frame sizes to cater for varying height riders. This problem exists in both
   standard bicycles or tricycles with a crank system as well as foot propelled bicycles commonly
   termed 'balance bikes'.
15  For brevity, the term 'bike' is hereafter used throughout this specification, but, as should be
   appreciated, the term bike for this specification also encompasses tricycles, quad wheel
   configurations or other multi-wheel configurations of non-motorised conveying devices.
   One art design improves the range of size adjustment by using a curved frame section with
   wheel axes at either end of the frame, and the frame may be flipped over to alter seat height. To
20 minimise the height, the frame is in a concave configuration when viewed from the side and the
   seat assembly is mounted on the frame about a low point in the frame when assembled.
   Conversely, to increase the seat height, the frame is flipped over to present a convex side profile
   and the same seat assembly also flipped resulting in the seat assembly being located about the
   high point of the frame.
25 An alternative art product has two adjoining frame sections that pivot in a vertical plane about an
   axis situated at a mid-point between the frame sections. The sections are held in place using
   pins that pass through set apertures in the frame sections off set from the pivot axis. Seat height
   is adjusted to one of three fixed points by removing the pins, adjusting the rear frame section
   angle relative to the front section and re-fixing the frame sections together again in a pre-set
30 position via the pins. The seat and seat-post are fixedly attached to the front frame section and
   not adjustable resulting in the seat alignment moving away from an optimum position when the
   frame is adjusted.
    It would be useful to increase the range of size adjustment; offer greater flexibility in height
   adjustment; allow adjustment in seat alignment independent of the frame height adjustment; or
35 at least provide the public with a choice.
   For the purpose of this specification the term 'comprise' and grammatical variations thereof shall
                                                       1

   have an inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed
   components it directly references, but also other non-specified components or elements.
   Further aspects and advantages of the height adjustable bike will become apparent from the
   ensuing description that is given by way of example only.
 5
   SUMMARY
   Described herein is a bike, trike or similar device wherein the seat height may be adjusted via a
   lockable connection assembly located on the bike frame.
   In a first aspect there is provided a bike including:
10           at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
             a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
15           a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
             wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
   the section endings mating about a lockable connection assembly that is also in communication
   with a seat-post connected to the seat;
20           wherein the frame sections pivot about a connection assembly axis in a direction
   perpendicular to the bike frame; and
             wherein, the seat-post is able to be moved independent of the frame sections.
   In a second aspect there is provided a bike including:
             at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
25           a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
             a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
30           wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
   the opposing section endings at least partly overlapping and mating together about an axis of
   rotation to form a lockable connection assembly;
             wherein the frame sections pivot about the axis of rotation in a direction perpendicular to
35 the bike frame thereby lifting or lowering the seat height relative to the ground surface on which
   the bike is placed; and
                                                      2

             wherein the lockable connection assembly locks the frame section endings in a fixed
   orientation via complementary interlocking elements on the connection assembly part or parts.
   In a third aspect there is provided a bike including:
             at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
 5           a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
             a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
10           wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
   the opposing section endings at least partly overlapping and mating together about an axis of
   rotation perpendicular to the bike frame and retained together via a single fastener, wherein the
   combination of sections and fastener form a lockable connection assembly; and
15           wherein, on loosening the single fastener, the frame sections are free to pivot about the
   axis of rotation thereby lifting or lowering the seat height relative to the ground surface on which
   the bike is placed, and on tightening the fastener, the parts lock together preventing further
   movement.
   In a fourth aspect there is provided a bike including:
20           at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
             a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
25           a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
             wherein at least one part selected from: part or all of the frame member, the handle bar,
   or the seat, are hollow tubular plastic sections manufactured via gas injection moulding.
   The bike may be a balance bike not having pedals with the rider's feet being used to propel the
   bike along. In an alternative embodiment, the bike may have a crankshaft and pedal assembly.
30 The seat-post may be extended into or out of the connection assembly thereby allowing further
   seat height adjustment. This adjustment is envisaged as being for micro or small height
   adjustments while movement of the frame sections may be for macro or larger seat height
   adjustments. The seat-post and other connection assembly part or parts may also interlink when
   the connection assembly is fastened together.
35 A key advantage of the above bike is the high range of height adjustability or micro-adjustability.
   For example, if a parent purchases a bike for their child, they want the reassurance that the bike
   will remain rideable by the child for as long as possible while the child grows. A bike that has a
   high range of height adjustment is more appealing for purchase in these situations than a short
                                                      3

   range of adjustment. Simple height adjustment is also possible using the design described
   herein so as to allow quick changes to be made - for example when the bike rider is changed
   from a taller person to a shorter person. Maintaining a desired seat orientation independent of
   the frame section orientation is also an advantage as this retains the seat in a comfortable riding
 5 position. Further, it is a simple process to adjust the frame height via one linking point (the
   connection assembly).
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Further aspects of the bike will become apparent from the following description that is given by
10 way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1      illustrates a perspective view of a bike in a neutral height position;
   Figure 2      illustrates a side view of a bike in a neutral height position;
   Figure 3      illustrates an underside view of a bike in neutral height position;
   Figure 4      illustrates a detail side view of a pivot joint configuration;
15 Figure 5      illustrates a detail perspective view of a pivot joint configuration;
   Figure 6      illustrates a further perspective view of a pivot joint configuration with selected parts
                 in an exploded configuration;
   Figure 7      illustrates a further perspective view of a pivot joint configuration with selected parts
                 in an exploded configuration from the opposing side as that shown in Figure 6;
20 Figure 8      illustrates a side view of the bike with a rear section pulled away to illustrate the seat
                 clamp interlock;
   Figure 9      illustrates the same view as in Figure 8 with further parts removed to further
                 illustrate the seat clamp interlock;
   Figure 10     illustrates a detail view of one rear section, the seat-post and the seat clamp
25               interlock to show the relationship between the seat-post and fastener;
   Figure 11     illustrates the seat clamp interlock in an exploded view from the opposing side to
                 that shown in Figures 8 to 10;
   Figure 12     illustrates a side view of the bike in a fully lowered configuration;
   Figure 13     illustrates a side view of the bike in a fully raised configuration;
30 Figure 14     illustrates a tricycle embodiment;
   Figure 15     illustrates a bike with a crank attached to the outside of the bike connection
                 assembly with the drive communication means removed for clarity;
   Figure 16     illustrates a bike with a crank attached within the connection assembly and including
                 a drive chain to a rear wheel;
                                                        4

   Figure 17      illustrates a detail view of one embodiment of the bike crank assembly;
   Figure 18      illustrates a detail view from a first side of an alternative embodiment of seat clamp
                  interlock using interlinking ribs and apertures between the seat-post and interlock;
                  and,
 5 Figure 19      illustrates a detail view from a second side of an alternative embodiment of seat
                  clamp interlock using interlinking ribs and apertures between the seat-post and
                  interlock.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10 As noted above, a bike, trike or similar device is described wherein the seat height may be
   adjusted via a lockable connection assembly located on the bike frame.
   For the purposes of this specification, the term 'about' or 'approximately' and grammatical
   variations thereof mean a quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage,
   dimension, size, amount, weight or length that varies by as much as 30, 25, 20, 15, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6,
15 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1% to a reference quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage,
   dimension, size, amount, weight or length.
   The term 'substantially' or grammatical variations thereof refers to at least about 50%, for
   example 75%, 85%, 95% or 98%.
   The term 'bike', 'bicycle' or other grammatical variations incorporates two wheel traditional bike
20 formats as well as tricycles or quad wheel arrangements. Tricycle or trike embodiments may
   include a configuration with two wheels at the back and one wheel at the front or alternatively, a
   configuration with two wheels at the front and one wheel at the back. Quad bike configurations
   may include those with two wheels at the front and two wheels at the back.
   The term 'front' refers to the direction the rider generally faces when seated on the bike while the
25 term 'back' or 'rear' refers to the end of the bike behind the rider when the rider is seated on the
   bike.
   The terms 'up' or 'lift' and 'down' or 'lower' or grammatical variations thereof refer to the relative
   vertical movement of the bike seat relative to a ground surface on which the bike is placed, 'up'
   or 'lift' may be used interchangeably to refer to a movement of the seat generally away from the
30 ground surface, and 'down' or 'lower' may be used interchangeably to refer to a movement of the
   seat generally towards the ground surface.
   The term 'frame' or grammatical variations thereof refers to the primary structural members of the
   bike including at least a first forward section or sections extending from the front wheel(s) and a
   second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s). The term 'frame' may also
35 encompass the front and rear wheel axles and the handle bar and fork or forks that retain a front
   wheel in place.
                                                         5

   The term 'toolless' or grammatical variations thereof refers to a mechanism that does not require
   a separate tool to operate the mechanism.
   In a first aspect there is provided a bike including:
             at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
 5           a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
             a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
10           wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
   the section endings mating about a lockable connection assembly that is also in communication
   with a seat-post connected to the seat;
             wherein the frame sections pivot about a connection assembly axis in a direction
15 perpendicular to the bike frame; and
             wherein, the seat-post is able to be moved independent of the frame sections.
   In a second aspect there is provided a bike including:
             at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
             a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
20 wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
             a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
             wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
25 from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
   the opposing section endings at least partly overlapping and mating together about an axis of
   rotation to form a lockable connection assembly;
             wherein the frame sections pivot about the axis of rotation in a direction perpendicular to
   the bike frame thereby lifting or lowering the seat height relative to the ground surface on which
30 the bike is placed; and
             wherein the lockable connection assembly locks the frame section endings in a fixed
   orientation via complementary interlocking elements on the connection assembly part or parts.
   In a third aspect there is provided a bike including:
             at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
35           a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
             a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
                                                      6

   and first distil end of the frame;
            a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
            wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the front wheel(s) and a second rear section or sections extending from the rear wheel(s),
 5 the opposing section endings at least partly overlapping and mating together about an axis of
   rotation perpendicular to the bike frame and retained together via a single fastener, wherein the
   combination of sections and fastener form a lockable connection assembly; and
            wherein, on loosening the single fastener, the frame sections are free to pivot about the
   axis of rotation thereby lifting or lowering the seat height relative to the ground surface on which
10 the bike is placed, and on tightening the fastener, the parts lock together preventing further
   movement.
   In a fourth aspect there is provided a bike including:
            at least two wheels for conveying the bike over a ground surface;
            a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
15 wheel, the wheels being located approximate each distil end of the frame;
            a handle bar at the front wheel end of the bike in communication with the front wheel(s)
   and first distil end of the frame;
            a seat on which the rider may sit when the bike is used;
            wherein at least one part selected from: part or all of the frame member, the handle bar,
20 or the seat, are hollow tubular plastic sections manufactured via gas injection moulding.
   The bike may be a balance bike not having pedals with the rider's feet being used to propel the
   bike along.
   In an alternative embodiment, the bike may have a crankshaft and pedal assembly. More details
   on this are provided below.
25 The bike may be non-motorised.
   The handle bars may be rotatable about a horizontal plane to allow the bike direction of travel to
   be controlled by the rider.
   The lockable connection assembly may be formed by interlinking the forward and rear sections of
   the frame about a pivot axis.
30 In one embodiment, the forward frame section may be a single piece elongated moulded section
   terminating at the mating distil end of the frame in a circular shape with interlinking elements
   about the circumference of the circular ending.
   The rear frame section may be manufactured as two moulded trailing arms, the ending of each
   arm having complementary interlinking elements to the ending of the forward section mating to
35 the exterior faces of the forward section.
   In one embodiment, the forward frame section and rear arms mate directly together. The forward
                                                      7

   section and rear arms may mate via interlinking ribs and apertures.
    In an alternative embodiment, the rear section may have one face extending outwardly that is
   smooth and contoured being the exterior of the connection assembly and an opposing side with
   apertures about the circumference of the circular ending. Sandwiched or situated between the
 5 endings of the forward and rear sections may be two rings, one on each side of the forward
   facing section. The rings may include ribs on each side of the ring surface that mate with the
   apertures in the frame sections.
   The seat-post or seat itself may be integrated into the lockable connection assembly. This offers
   the advantage of having the various parts integrated into one area and is an aesthetically
10 attractive placement point so that the seat-post will generally extend from the centre of the frame
   member. Despite this, the seat itself or seat-post may be mounted onto the frame member (front
   or rear section or sections) and need not be part of the connection assembly.
   A mechanical fastener may be used to retain the connection assembly parts together when the
   assembly is locked. The term 'locked' refers to the assembly parts resisting movement about the
15 connection assembly axis when fixed together. A single fastener may be used. The fastener
   may pass through the axis of rotation. The single fastener may be adjusted (loosening or
   tightening) to unlock or lock the connection assembly. Loosening the fastener allows adjustment
   in the seat height and tightening locks the new position. As may be appreciated, this method of
   adjustment is simple to effect (for example a single turn of the fastener may be sufficient to
20 loosen the parts). The method minimises the risk of losing parts since it is not necessary to fully
   remove the fastener hence all parts of the bike remain connected during adjustment. In addition,
   only one action (fastener loosening) is needed to adjust the height unlike other art pivot joints that
   require multiple steps and removal of parts. The fastener may be a nut and bolt.
    In a further embodiment, the fastener may include a bias mechanism that urges the connection
25 assembly parts together to automatically lock the connection assembly when movement is
   completed. Unfastening may occur by for example, pulling against the bias urging force.
    In more detail, seat height adjustment may be completed by loosening the fastener and rotating
   the frame sections about the pivot axis until the desired seat height position is reached, re
   aligning the ribs and apertures together and re-applying the fastener. Frame movement to adjust
30 the seat height relative to the surface on which the bike is placed is termed herein as macro
   height adjustment.
   As noted above, the bearing surfaces of the connection assembly may include interlinking
   elements. In one embodiment, the interlinking elements may be male and female elements that
   complement each other. The interlinking elements may be mating ribs and apertures on the
35 surface of each part. The rib and aperture design offers several advantages including reducing
   the need to fully tighten a fastener or fasteners at the pivot point since the rib/aperture
   connections help retain the parts in position removing load from the fastener. The risk of over
   torqueing the fastener and for example causing cross-threading is also avoided by this design.
                                                     8

   The rib/aperture connection assists with avoiding slipping about the pivot point during use. The
   rib/aperture approach also pre-sets a variety of points at which the height can be set to.
   Other ways to interlink the parts may include use of high friction surfaces such as roughened
   surfaces (random or regular such as a random or regular spaced dotted surface) that, at a micro
 5 level interact to prevent motion between the abutting faces.
   Another alternative interlinking method may be to use a protruding feature from one face that
   inserts into a corresponding aperture or apertures in the opposing face and acts to grip the parts
   together. Protruding features may be lugs, tongues, flanges and the like.
   As an alternative to interlinking elements or in conjunction with interlinking elements, a clamping
10 mechanism or mechanisms may be used around the connection assembly parts to retain the
   parts together.
   A yet further alternative to retaining the connection assembly in a desired fix alignment may be to
   use a pin or fastener inserted through some or all of the connection assembly parts, the insertion
   point being off centre to the axis of rotation, thereby preventing rotation while the pin/fastener or
15 pins/fasteners are inserted. The pin(s)/fastener(s) may be removed to allow rotation.
   One end of the seat-post may be connected to a seat that supports a rider and the opposing end
   of which may mate with the connection assembly. The seat-post may key into the connection
   assembly part or parts so as to constrain movement of the seat-post when the connection
   assembly is locked. The seat post may be moved generally up or down for a smaller range of
20 seat height adjustment termed herein as micro height adjustment.
   In one embodiment, the connection assembly may include a seat clamp interlock. One side of
   the interlock may have extending teeth that mate with complementary teeth in the rear frame
   section. The tooth profile between the interlock and frame section or section parts may differ to
   that between the frame sections and ring or rings thereby resulting in a different rate of
25 movement of the frame section relative to the seat-post.
   One side of the seat clamp interlock may include two extending members that pass around at
   least part of the seat member seat-post and act as a stop to prevent excessive movement of the
   seat member about the pivot axis.
   The clamp interlock offers the advantage of being able to adjust the seat height and orientation
30 independently of frame member adjustment. Independent movement is preferable as, when the
   frame sections are adjusted, the seat alignment also adjusts, typically to a position that is not
   ideal for riding (tipping the rider forwards or backwards).
   Interlinking features such as ribs and apertures may also be used between the face of the seat
   clamp interlock and seat-post face to assist with preventing movement up or down of the seat
35 when the connection assembly is locked.
   In the bike above, when the frame sections pivot about the connection assembly axis, the seat
   height may lift or lower relative to the ground surface on which the bike is placed. Adjustment of
                                                       9

   the frame sections allows for macro height adjustment. In one embodiment, adjustment of the
   frame sections only by rotation of the connection assembly may be used to vary the seat height
   relative to the ground surface on which the bike is placed by approximately 150, 175, 200, 225,
   250, 275, 300, 325, 350, 375, 400, 425, 450mm. The range of adjustment may be from 150 to
 5 450mm. The range may be 200 to 440mm
   The frame section or sections at the rear of the bike may have an arc shaped side profile and
   may be flipped over to further increase the range of height adjustment. For example, the rear
   section may have a concave side cross-section when in a lowered configuration and a convex
   side cross-section when in a raised configuration. In one embodiment, by flipping the rear
10 section or sections, the macro height adjustment range may be increased by a further 40-50mm.
   While the range of macro height positions may be infinite between the maximum height and
   minimum height, selected heights may be pre-selected during manufacture by choice of rib and
   aperture placement. This may limit the range of adjustment for example to: 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
   35, 40, 45 or 50mm increments. The increment may be 10 to 50mm. The increment may be 30
15 40mm. The above macro height measurements have been provided by way of illustration of the
   range of motion and versatility possible based on selected designs of bike. It should be
   appreciated that the range of motion may be further varied, for example by increasing or reducing
   the frame component size, increasing or reducing the connection assembly size, or by increasing
   or reducing the wheel diameter.
20 Also as noted above, the seat height may be adjusted at a micro level by movement of the seat
   post. In one embodiment, changing the seat height may be achieved by moving the seat-post
   into and out of the connection assembly. Adjustment may be completed by unfastening a
   fastener about the pivot point and moving the seat height up or down independent of the pivot
   point via an elongated slot opening in the seat-post through which the fastener passes. The
25 bottom of the seat-post may be designed so as to not protrude outside the connection assembly
   when at a lowest point. In one embodiment, the seat-post ending lies flush with the bottom of the
   frame section distil end or ends when the seat is in a fully lowered position. By way of illustration,
   seat height adjustment may allow for a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50,
   55, 60, 65 or 70mm range of seat height adjustment relative to a ground surface on which the
30 bike is placed. In one embodiment the seat height may be adjusted at a micro level by
   approximately 1-60mm. The range of positions at which the seat height may be fixed may in be
   infinite or, where interlinking elements are used such as ribs and apertures, the range of
   positions may be in 2-4mm increments. It should be appreciated that the range of micro height
   movement described may be varied, for example by increasing the seat-post and opening length,
35 and the above dimension figures are provided by way of illustration only.
   All three height adjustment factors (macro, micro and rear section frame flipping) may be used to
   alter the bike seat height relative to a ground surface on which the bike is placed. The full range
   of movement using all three methods of height adjustment in one embodiment may be from
   200mm to 500mm ground to seat height.
                                                     10

   As should be appreciated from the above, a wide range of height adjustments may be made. As
   may further be appreciated, assuming the bike were designed for a child, the range of height
   adjustment allows children from as early as 12 months to begin riding the bike and children up to
   6 years old or more may still be able to ride the bike. The wide range of height adjustment also
 5 provides versatility for children to use a bike where height extremes exist - for example children
   with dwarfism may require a very low configuration and, at the other extreme, some children
   even for natural reasons, are far taller than their peers yet are not mature enough to ride a
   standard bike. In these circumstances, the above described bike may still be suitable.
   As noted above, in selected embodiments the bike may have a crank system including pedals
10 linked to a crank shaft and a communication means between the crank shaft and wheel or
   wheels to translate movement of the pedals to movement of the wheel or wheels. The
   communication means between the crankshaft and wheel or wheels may be a chain or belt.
   Pedal movement may be translated into movement of the rear wheel or wheels via the
   communication means.
15 The design of the crank system may be such that movement of the connection assembly does
   not substantially alter the tension on the belt or chain. As may be appreciated, altering the belt or
   chain tension would be undesirable as, in extreme cases, the tension would prevent movement
   of the frame sections or instead might compromise the ability for the chain or belt to remain
   attached e.g. if the chain had insufficient tension.
20  In one embodiment the bike may have a crank system mounted to the frame. In one specific
   embodiment, the crank system may be formed integral to the connection assembly. In this
   embodiment, the crank system may include two support members, each support member made
   up of a moulding shaped as a ring interfacing with the connection assembly at one end and a
   boss forming a bottom bracket sleeve at the opposing end through which a crank shaft may be
25 inserted. The support member ring sections may include rib projections that key into
   complementary apertures in one or more of the connection assembly parts. The bosses forming
   the bottom bracket sleeve (and crank shaft) may be housed within an enclosure. The enclosure
   may be manufactured from aluminium or glass filled nylon.
    In one embodiment, the bike may be manufactured in part or in full from plastic parts including
30 moulded sections for the frame, handle bars, seat-post, wheel rims and so on. The plastic may
   be recycled plastic. The frame member sections may be moulded plastic sections. The handle
   bar may be a moulded plastic section. The seat and/or seat-post may be moulded plastic
   sections. The moulded plastic (recycled or virgin) parts used in the bike may be manufactured
   from aluminium or glass filled nylon.
35 Parts of the bike including the frame sections, seat-post, handle bar and forks may be
   manufactured by gas assisted injection moulding thereby forming hollow contoured plastic parts
   that achieve a lighter and stronger form of bike than other methods of manufacture. The inventor
   is not aware of other bike parts being manufactured via gas injection moulding and has found this
   method to be a great advantage in achieving lower weight, sufficient strength / uniformity in
                                                      11

   shape wall width, and giving an aesthetically pleasing finish.
    In more detail, gas assisted injection moulding is a controlled-pressure process that uses an inert gas
   (most commonly nitrogen) to apply uniform pressure throughout a moulded plastic part when the part
   is formed. By spreading molten plastic throughout the mould, the process creates a hollow part with
 5 even wall thickness.
   With respect to bikes and trikes, the method was found by the inventor to be particularly useful
   despite art publications on gas assisted moulding arguing that it had limitations on part size and was
   not useful where parts had corners or bends. Bikes and trikes must have a rigid construction to
   withstand the torsional and other forces and stresses occuring when in use. They must also be
10 lightweight because the rider propels the bike with their own energy and greater weight slows the
   rider. There is therefore a trade off between strength and weight.
   One art method of achieving the desired optimum is to use steel, aluminium or metal composite
   materials formed into a tubular shape. Bikes made this way are far from perfect in that they:
            (a) have stress points where components are welded at a joint;
15          (b) may include sharp edges;
            (b) corrode due to weather or deterioriate due to wear and accidental impact;
            (c) consume large quantities of virgin raw materials; and
            (d) have a traditional non-organic aesthetic.
   One solution already in use is to employ composite materials such as carbon fibre. These
20 composites are exceptionally lightweight and to a point strong. They also do not deteriorate due to
   weathering. The downside of such materials are that they can be brittle hence need more care than
   metals and alloys. Composites are also dramatically more expensive. As a result of these
   downsides, composites are generally only used in higher performance bikes.
   Traditional materials used for injected moulds include various polymers such as polyproylene. These
25 materials are often inexpensive and widely used but they lack the strength and rigidity to be
   commercially useful in bike or trike applications apart from small non-structural parts. The reality of
   these materials is that, in order to achieve the strength and rigidity needed, larger volumes of material
   are required and/or additives such as glass fibre must be used, the end result being a heavy bike or
   trike and completely outstripped by other materials.
30 The inventor has found that in fact, through use of gas assisted injection moulding, the balance of
   strength and weight can be achieved plus there are numerous other advantages realised.
   GAIM is a process where gas is injected into a mould that has been partially filled with polymer. The
   gas (e.g. nitrogen) drives the polymer core further into the mould until it is filled completely. The
   penetrating gas leaves behind a polymer layer at the mould walls resulting in a product with a
35 polymer skin and an inner gas channel. A negligible pressure drop occurs in the gas core unlike
   conventional injection moulding or blow moulding.
   Key benefits of Gas Assisted Injection Molding are that it reduces production time, cost, weight and
   waste. Specifically:
                                                        12

              -        The process saves on the amount of raw material needed;
              -        Through less materials being necessary, the overall part weight and cost is reduced;
              -        An improved surface finish is possible compared to thick-walled injection moulded
                       parts;
 5            -        The process leads to a quicker cycle time particularly compared to steel tube
                       formation;
              -        The process surprisingly leads to a dramatically reduced level of warpage (up to
                       90%) compared to injection moulded parts;
              -        The tooling cost for bike manufacture is reduced as the need for multiple drops and
10                     hot runner systems in long shapes is avoided or reduced unlike injection moulded
                       parts;
              -        The number of parts needed could also be reduced since, contrary to art
                       publications, complex shapes could be formed as one part. In addition, the wall
                       thickness within a part may be varied as well unlike art methods.
15 The materials used to manufacture the bike or trike parts may be engineered resins. As may be
   appreciated, these materials are relatively low cost and strong.
   Gas assisted injection moulding also has the advantage of being a highly scalable production process
   hence, once a single part is made well, the process can then be used to manufacture many more
   pieces of the same standard.
20 Traditionally, component junctions are joined at a weld point, which can fail or be a weak point in
   construction. Gas assisted injection moulding removes weld points and weak junctions. In addition,
   offset elements can be designed and moulded to overlap, thereby spreading the loadminimising
   stress points and increasing the structural strength of the bike frame.
   The bike may have parts formed via gas assisted injection moulding into unique design forms/profiles.
25 Via gas assisted injection moulding, it is possible to create multiple shapes in the one piece unlike art
   parts. By way of example, a single part may for structural strength include shapes such as oval,
   elliptical (e.g. part of the frame or forks) and i-beam construction (e.g. rear stays).
   In one embodiment, at least one part may have both hollow and non-hollow (solid) elements. This
   combination may be done to maximise strength, minimise weight and provide an aesthetic change.
30 The inventor has further found that incorporating high volume overflow during gas assisted moulding
   enables complete and smooth flow through the entirety of the part, reducing (a) number of vents
   required and (b) flow marks caused by uneven filling of the mould.
   Optionally, products produced by the gas assisted injection moulding process may have applied a
   fine textured finish for high quality feel and to conceal any molding imperfections.
35 The bike or trike as noted above with respect to gas assisted injection moulding may be manufactured
   to    have    a   single    frame   piece   linking  the  rear  wheel(s)    to   the   front fork or  may
                                                          13

    instead use the lockable connection described herein.
   The above adjustments in connection assembly position may be adjusted toollessly or without
   the use of a separate tool to remove or replace parts. In one embodiment, the fastener at the
   pivot axis may have a handle or handles to allow a user to unfasten the connection assembly
 5 without using tools. As may be appreciated, the use of a tool could detract from the useability and
   durability of the bike as tools complicate the process of re-arranging the parts. Separate tools
   also may be lost hence avoiding the need for tools may be preferable. Notwithstanding the
   above, tools may be used and use of tools is not expressly excluded from the scope of the
   description made herein.
10 A key advantage of the above bike is the high range of height adjustability. For example, if a
   parent purchases a bike for their child, they want the reassurance that the bike will remain
   rideable by the child for as long as possible while the child grows. A bike that has a high range of
   height adjustment is more appealing for purchase in these situations than a short range of
   adjustment. Simple height adjustment is also preferable so as to allow quick changes to be
15 made - for example when the bike rider is changed from a taller person to a shorter person.
   Further, maintaining the seat in a desired riding alignment independent of frame movement is
   important otherwise the rider position will change relative to the handlebars leading in extreme
   cases to falls from the bike.
   The embodiments described above may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements
20 and features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or
   collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or features, and
   where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which
   the embodiments relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as of
   individually set forth,
25 Where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which
   this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if
   individually set forth.
                                          WORKING EXAMPLES
30 The above described bike and the various configurations the bike may be moved to are
   described below by reference to specific examples.
                                                 EXAMPLE 1
   Referring to Figures 1-3, a bike 1 in the form of a children's balance bike is illustrated when in a
35 neutral position i.e. not extended fully high or fully low.
   In the embodiment shown, the bike 1 includes two wheels 2,3 for conveying the bike 1 over a
                                                      14

   ground surface (not shown). A frame member generally indicated by arrow 4 is supported
   between the front wheel 2 and the rear wheel 3. A handle bar 5 is shown approximate the front
   wheel 2 end of the bike 1 in communication with the first wheel 2 and first distil end of the frame 4
   rotatable about a horizontal plane to allow the bike 1 direction of travel to be controlled. The
 5 frame 4 member is made up of a first 6 and second section 7 mating about a lockable connection
   assembly 8. The connection assembly 8 is also in communication with a seat-post 9. The
   lockable connection assembly 8 pivots the frame sections 6,7 about a connection assembly 8
   axis 10 in an orthogonal direction relative to the bike 1 plane of travel indicated by arrow A,
   thereby lifting or lowering the seat height relative to the wheel axes of the bike in direction X or Y
10 as shown.
   The lockable connection assembly 8 locks the frame section parts 6,7 in a fixed orientation via at
   least one interlocking element (see Figures 4 to 11 for more details).
   On lifting or lowering of the frame sections 6,7, the seat-post 9 remains in a substantially upright
   position moving independently to the frame members 6,7. The seat-post 9 mates with the
15 connection assembly 8 assembly. More details on this are described below and with reference to
   Figures 8 to 11.
   The forward frame section 6 is an elongated moulded section terminating at one distil end 11 in a
   circular shape with apertures 12 about the circumference of the circular ending 11.
   The rear facing frame section 7 is manufactured in two moulded parts 7A, 7B although could be
20 moulded as one piece with a forked ending at the connection assembly 8. The ending of each
   rear frame part 7A, 7B has a complementary circular shape to the ending of the forward facing
   section 11.
   Each rear facing section 7A, 7B has one face extending outwardly 12 that is smooth and
   contoured being the exterior of the connection assembly 8 and an opposing side 13 has similar
25 apertures 14 about the circumference of the circular ending as the distil end of the forward facing
   section 6.
   Sandwiched between the two mating sections 6, 7A and 6, 7B are two circular shaped rings
   15,16, one on each side of the forward facing section 6 distil ending 11. The rings 15,16 include
   raised ribs 17 on each side of the ring 15,16 surface that mate with the apertures 12, 14 in the
30 frame sections 6, 7A, 7B.
   A mechanical fastener 18 being a nut and bolt retains the connection assembly 8 parts together
   when the connection assembly 8 is locked.
   Adjustment is completed by loosening the fastener 18 and rotating the parts about the pivot axis
   10 until the desired seat-post 9 height is reached and then re-locking the parts by re-aligning the
35 ribs 17 and apertures 12,14 together and re-tightening the fastener 18.
   The seat-post 9 includes a seat-post 19, one end of which includes a seat 20 that supports a
   rider (not shown) and the opposing end of which extends into an aperture in the front section 6
                                                      15

   approximate the distil end 11 thereby integrating the seat-post 19 into the connection assembly
   8.
   The seat-post 19 keys into the connection assembly 8 part or parts so as to constrain movement
   of the seat-post when the connection assembly 8 is locked in position. The connection assembly
 5 8 includes an interlock 21 having a cylindrical shape that nests within the internal diameter of one
   of the rings 15,16 noted above.
   One side of the interlock 21 has extending teeth 22 that mate with complementary teeth 23 in the
   rear frame section 7A. Note, the interlock 21 may be on the opposing side with the teeth 22
   interlinking with teeth (not shown) on the opposed rear frame section 7B.
10 The opposing side of the interlock 21 includes two extending members 24,25 that pass at least
   partially around the seat-post 19 and act as a stop to prevent back and forth movement of the
   seat-post 9 about the pivot axis 10.
   The teeth 22 profile between the rear frame section 7A and the interlock 21 may have a different
   profile to the rib/aperture profile between the frame sections 6, 7A, 7B and the opposing ring or
15 rings 15,16 thereby resulting in a different rate of movement of the frame section(s) 6,7 relative to
   the seat-post 9.
   Adjustment of the connection assembly 8 varies the seat 20 height relative to the wheel 2,3 axles
   by for example, approximately 30 to 500mm.
   The seat 20 height can also be adjusted by moving the seat-post 19 into and out of the
20 connection assembly 8. Height adjustment is completed by loosening the fastener 18 about the
   connection assembly 8 pivot point 10 and moving the seat 20 up or down independent of frame
   section 6,7 movement via a guide opening 23 in the seat-post 19 through which the fastener 18
   passes. The bike 1 seat 20 height adjustment via the seat-post 19 allows for example, a 1 to
   40mm range of seat 20 height adjustment.
25
                                                 EXAMPLE 2
   As shown in Figures 12 and 13, the bike 1 seat 20 height can be lowered (Figure 12) by lowering
   the pivot point 10 of the connection assembly 8 or raised as shown in Figure 13.
   As should be appreciated, the seat remains upright during height adjustment. Once the fastener
30 18 is tightened, the connection assembly parts are retained in place via the interlocking parts
   thereby avoiding slippage or unwanted changes in alignment.
                                                 EXAMPLE 3
   Examples 1 and 2 described a two wheeled balance bike 1. As shown in Figure 14, the same
35 principle may be applied to a tricycle 100 embodiment using three wheels 2,3A, 3B. As should
   be appreciated, the two wheeled end 101 may be reversed (not shown). Quad wheel
                                                      16

   arrangements (not shown) may also utilise the same principles for seat 20 height adjustment as
   described herein.
                                                EXAMPLE 4
 5 Examples 1 to 3 describe a balance bike 1, 100. The same principles may also apply to a bike
   with a crank assembly.
   Figures 15 to 17 show ways to integrate a crank assembly generally indicated by arrow 201.
   Figure 15 shows a crank assembly 201 with a drive means removed for clarity. The drawing
   illustrates the way the crank assembly 201 may be hung from the exterior of the connection
10 assembly 8.
   Figure 16 shows a crank assembly 201 with a drive means 202 in the form of a chain. As should
   be appreciated, a belt may also be used to transfer rotational movement of the crank shaft 203 to
   the wheel or wheels 2,3. The drawing illustrates the way the crank assembly 201 may be hung
   from inside the connection assembly 8 thereby integrating the crank assembly 201 into the wider
15 connection assembly 8 parts.
   Figure 17 shows two potential support members 204, 205. Each support member is a moulded
   shape including a ring portion 206 interfacing with the connection assembly 8 (not shown) and a
   boss 207 forming a bottom bracket sleeve at the opposing end through which a crank shaft (not
   shown) may be inserted. The support member 204,205 ring portions 206 include rib projections
20 208 that key into complementary apertures (not shown) in one or more of the connection
   assembly 8 parts.
                                                EXAMPLE 5
   Figures 9 to 11 described above illustrate how the seat-post 19 and seat clamp interlock 21
25 interact together. In an alternative embodiment, the abutting faces of the seat-post 19 and seat
   clamp interlock 21 may have interlinking elements 300, 301. Referring to Figures 18 and 19,
   similar views to that of Figures 9 to 11 are shown however the seat clamp interlock 21 includes
   ribbed features 301 that interlink with complementary apertures 300 in the seat-post 19. This
   approach may be useful to help maintain the seat-post 19 position within the connection
30 assembly 8.
                                                EXAMPLE 6
   As best seen in Figures 1-2 and 12-14, the bike 1 or trike 100 may be made using a minimal
   number of parts, the parts being formed via gas assisted injection moulding (in part or in full).
35 The advantages of this process to mould the parts are described in detail above, however, as
   can be seen in the drawings, parts such as the front forks 5 may be moulded as one part. Art
                                                    17

  front forks generally required the use of multiple parts since it was difficult to integrate all of the
  parts as in this case. Also as can be seen in the drawings, the parts can take on very different
  shapes and each part may have shape variations as shown for example in the two halves 6,7 of
  the main frame 4.
5
  Aspects of the bike have been described by way of example only and it should be appreciated
  that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the
  claims herein.
                                                    18

WHAT WE CLAIM IS
1. A bike including:
              at least two wheels that convey the bike over a ground surface;
              a frame member supported between at least one front wheel and at least one rear
   wheel, wherein the at least one front wheel and the at least one rear wheel are located
   approximate each distal end of the frame member;
              a handle bar at a front wheel end of the bike in communication with the at least one
   front wheel and a first distal end of the frame member; and
         a seat configured to be used by a rider to sit on when the bike is used;
         wherein the frame member is made up of a first forward section or sections extending
   from the at least one front wheel and a second rear section or sections extending from the at
   least one rear wheel, the first forward section or sections and second rear section or sections
   having endings that mate about a lockable connection assembly, the lockable connection
   assembly also being in communication with a seat-post connected to the seat;
         wherein the first forward section or sections and the second rear section or sections pivot
   about a lockable connection assembly axis in a direction perpendicular to the frame member
   to lift or lower the seat height relative to the ground surface on which the bike is placed;
         wherein, the seat-post is able to be moved independent of the first forward section or
   sections and the second rear section or sections; and
         wherein the seat post moves in a generally vertical plane into or out of the lockable
   connection assembly to further adjust the seat height relative to the frame member.
2. The bike as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first forward section or sections and the second
   rear section or sections endings mate via interlinking elements located approximate at least
   part of the lockable connection assembly pivot axis.
3. The bike as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein a mechanical fastener is used to retain the
   lockable connection assembly together.
4. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the seat-post includes an
   elongated slot through which the lockable connection assembly axis of rotation passes, the
   seat-post being moveable relative to the lockable connection assembly axis along the
   elongated slot.
5. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the seat-post communicates
   with the second rear section or sections via a seat clamp interlock.
6. The bike as claimed in claim 5 wherein the seat clamp interlock includes interlocking
   elements mating with complementary interlocking elements on the second rear section or
   sections.
7. The bike as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the seat clamp interlock includes two
   extending members that pass around at least part of the seat-post and which act to restrict
   movement of the seat-post.
                                                    19

8.  The bike as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein seat interlinking elements are
    located between the seat clamp interlock and the seat-post to prevent movement of the seat
    post relative to the seat clamp interlock when the lockable connection assembly is locked.
9.  The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the first forward section or
    sections is a single piece elongated moulded section terminating at the lockable connection
    assembly ending in a circular shape with interlinking elements about the circumference of the
    circular shaped ending.
10. The bike as claimed in claim 9 wherein the rear section is manufactured as two moulded
    trailing arms, wherein each second rear section or sections ending has two faces, one face
    extending outwardly that is smooth and contoured being the exterior of the lockable
    connection assembly and an opposing face with interlinking elements about the
    circumference of the circular ending complementary to the interlinking elements of the first
    forward section ending.
11. The bike as claimed in claim 10 wherein each second rear section opposing face mates
    directly to the opposing sides of the circular ending of the first forward section.
12. The bike as claimed in claim 10 wherein, situated between the endings of the first forward
    section or sections and second rear section or sections faces are two rings, one on each side
    of the first forward sections, the rings including interlinking elements on each side of the ring
    surface that mate with the interlining elements in the first forward section or sections and the
    second rear section or sections.
13. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the second rear section or
    sections has or have an arc shaped side profile and is or are capable of being flipped over to
    further increase the range of seat height adjustment.
14. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the distance between the bike
    seat and a ground surface on which the bike is placed can be adjusted from 200mm to
    500mm ground to seat height.
15. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the bike is a balance bike.
16. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the bike has a crankshaft and
    pedal assembly.
17. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the seat height is adjusted
    toolessly.
18. The bike as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein at least one part of the bike
    selected from: part or all of the frame member; the handle bar, the seat, or the seat-post; are
    hollow tubular plastic sections manufactured via gas injection moulding.
                                                   20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  "#!
                                   $%!
                        "$!
                              22                          &##!
                                                   &##!
                                     FIGURE 18
                                         14 / 15

                !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                      "#!
              "$!
                                                     $%!
                    &#$!
                           &##!   &##!
                                         FIGURE 19
                                          15 / 15

