                                                                             PGS-13-15US-CON1
                                            ABSTRACT
        Disclosed are methods and systems for enabling anti-twist functionality in marine
geophysical streamers. An embodiment discloses a method comprising: towing a streamer
behind a survey vessel in a body of water, wherein the streamer comprises rotation sensors and
streamer rotation devices; receiving data from at least one rotation sensor indicative of streamer
twist; and rotating a portion of the streamer with at least one streamer rotation device to reduce
the streamer twist based, at least in part on the data.
                                                   16

                             3/4
              ~CfCD
               M          00
          LC)       .r~Ct
     0 LU
0F-=
  or-o
               U-NY
    Co                           CY
      C)

                                                                            PGS-13-15US-CON1
                METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR STREAMER ANTI-TWIST
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001] The present application is a continuation of United States Patent Application No.
14/145,349, filed December 31, 2013, which claims priority to United States Provisional
Application No. 61/844,649, filed July 10, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
                                         BACKGROUND
        [0002] Embodiments relate generally to the field of marine geophysical surveying and,
more particularly, embodiments relate to methods and systems for enabling anti-twist
functionality in marine geophysical streamers.
        [0003] Techniques for geophysical surveying include marine geophysical surveying,
such as seismic surveying and electromagnetic surveying, in which geophysical data may be
collected from below the Earth's surface. Geophysical surveying has applications in mineral and
energy exploration and production to help identify locations of hydrocarbon-bearing formations.
Certain types of marine geophysical surveying, such as seismic or electromagnetic surveying,
may include towing an energy source at a selected depth-typically above the seafloor-in a
body of water. One or more geophysical streamers also may be towed in the water at selected
depths-typically above the seafloor-by the same or a different vessel. The streamers are
typically cables that include a plurality of sensors disposed thereon at spaced apart locations
along the length of the cable. Some geophysical surveys locate sensors on ocean bottom cables
or nodes in addition to, or instead of, streamers. The sensors may be configured to generate a
signal that is related to a parameter being measured by the sensor. At selected times, the energy
source may be actuated to generate, for example, seismic or electromagnetic energy that travels
downwardly into the subsurface rock. Energy that interacts with interfaces, generally at the
boundaries between layers of rock formations, may be returned toward the surface and detected
by the sensors on the streamers. The detected energy may be used to infer certain properties of
the subsurface rock, such as structure, mineral composition and fluid content, thereby providing
information useful in the recovery of hydrocarbons.
        [0004] Some known streamers may be based on a dual strain member mechanical
backbone. This implementation may be well suited for the in-line tension and reeling
                                                1

                                                                               PGS-13-15US-CON1
requirements of current systems. However, the dual strain member implementation typically has
little torsion stiffness, which enables the streamer to rotate (almost) freely around its center axis
(also referred to herein as "twist"). Other streamer designs (e.g., sensor stress member streamers)
may also have little torsion stiffness also allowing streamer rotation. Such rotation may have
severe mechanical and robustness consequences.
         [0005] Devices used in the control of streamer orientation and/or position may include
lateral force and depth (LFD) control devices, also referred to as "birds." LFD control devices
may be used for changing the orientation and/or position of the streamer. In one example, LFD
control devices may include variable incidence wings that are rotatably fixed onto the streamer.
While LFD control devices have been used in controlling the orientation and/or position of
streamers, some LFD control devices have been observed to have non-optimal anti-twist
functionality, leaving remnant twist in streamer sections. For example, FIG. 1 illustrates a
streamer section 2 with a nearly 1000 twist between adjacent spacers 4, which may be caused due
to malfunction of a LFD control device.
         [0006] Accordingly, there is a need for improved methods and systems for detecting and
removing streamer twist.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0007] These drawings illustrate certain aspects of some of the embodiments of the
present invention and should not be used to limit or define the invention.
         [0008] FIG. 1 shows an example streamer with twist between adjacent spacers.
         [0009] FIG. 2 shows an example marine geophysical survey system with a streamer
having rotation sensors.
         [0010] FIG. 3 shows an example portion of a streamer having rotation sensors and a
streamer rotation device.
         [0011] FIG. 4 shows another example portion of a streamer segment having rotation
sensors and streamer rotation devices.
         [0012] FIG. 5 shows example roll measurements from the set of streamer segments of
FIG. 4.
         [0013] FIG. 6 shows an example method for performing a streamer untwist operation.
         [0014] FIG. 7 shows a prior art streamer having a pair of LFD devices.
                                                  2

                                                                                PGS-13-15US-CON1
         [0015] FIG. 8 illustrates the coordinate system for a particular rotation sensor.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0016] It is to be understood the present disclosure is not limited to particular devices or
methods, which may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein
is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
Although individual embodiments are discussed, the invention covers all combinations of all
those embodiments. As used herein, the singular forms "a", "an", and "the" include singular and
plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore, the word "may" is
used throughout this application in a permissive sense (i.e., having the potential to, being able
to), not in a mandatory sense (i.e., must). The term "include," and derivations thereof, mean
"including, but not limited to." The term "coupled" means directly or indirectly connected.
         [0017] Embodiments relate to methods and systems for enabling anti-twist functionality
(i.e., reducing rotation around its center axis) in marine geophysical streamers. In some
embodiments, anti-twist functionality may be provided by way of lateral force and depth (LFD)
control devices. In some embodiments, anti-twist functionality may be operated independently of
any other functionality present in the LFD control devices. Some embodiments include the use of
a direct measurement of the streamer twist, rather than relying on an assumed initial ideal state.
Accordingly, it may offer various advantages over known streamer anti-twist solutions. By way
of example, present embodiments may include direct measurement of the actual streamer twist,
which may typically only be estimated in the anti-twist and unwind systems employed in known
streamer rotation devices and streamer control systems.
         [0018] FIG. 2 illustrates a marine geophysical survey system 5 in accordance with
embodiments of the present invention. In the illustrated embodiment, the marine geophysical
survey system 5 may include a survey vessel 10 that moves along the surface of a body of water
15, such as a lake or ocean. The survey vessel 10 may include thereon equipment, shown
generally at 20 and referred to for convenience as a "recording system." The recording system 20
typically includes devices (none shown separately) for navigating the survey vessel 10, such as
global positioning system ("GPS") receivers, actuating one or more energy sources 25, and
recording signals generated by geophysical sensors 30.
                                                   3

                                                                               PGS-13-15US-CON1
         [0019] As illustrated, the survey vessel 10 or a different vessel (not shown) can tow a
source cable 35 that includes one or more energy sources 25. The one or more energy sources 25
may be towed above the water bottom. The one or more energy sources 25 may be any
selectively actuable sources suitable for marine geophysical surveying, including without
limitation seismic air guns, water guns, vibrators, electromagnetic field transmitters, or arrays of
such devices. In some embodiments, seismic energy and/or electromagnetic energy may
originate from the one or more energy sources 25. As the energy is emitted by the energy sources
25, it travels downwardly through the body of water 15 and rock formations (not shown) below
the water bottom. It should be noted that, while the present example shows only a single energy
source 25, the invention is applicable to any number of energy sources towed by survey vessel
10 or any other vessel.
         [0020] The geophysical survey system 5 may include a plurality of streamers 40 towed
by the survey vessel 10 (or another vessel) with each of the streamers 40 including the
geophysical sensors 30 at spaced apart locations. The streamers 40 may be towed above the
water bottom. The streamers 40 may be spaced apart laterally, vertically, or both laterally and
vertically. "Lateral" or "laterally," in the present context, means transverse to the direction of the
motion of the survey vessel 10. The streamers 40 may each be formed, for example, by coupling
a plurality of streamer sections end-to-end as explained in U.S. Patent No. 7,142,481, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The streamers 40 may be coupled at
their forward end (with respect to direction of movement of the survey vessel 10) to
corresponding lead-in lines 45. While not shown, each of the lead-in lines 45 may be deployed
from the survey vessel 10 by a winch or other similar spooling device, for example, that can be
used to control the deployed length of the lead-in lines 45. It should be noted that, while the
present example, shows only four streamers 40, the invention is applicable to any number of
streamers 40 towed by survey vessel 10 or any other vessel. For example, in some embodiments,
eight or more streamers 40 may be towed by survey vessel 10, while in other embodiments, as
many as twenty-six or more streamers 40 may be towed by survey vessel 10.
         [0021] The geophysical sensors 30 may be any type of geophysical sensor known in the
art. Non-limiting examples of such sensors may include seismic sensors such as geophones,
hydrophones, or accelerometers, or electromagnetic field sensors, such as electrodes or
magnetometers. By way of example, the geophysical sensors 30 may generate response signals,
                                                   4

                                                                               PGS-13-15US-CON1
such as electrical or optical signals, in response to detecting energy emitted from the one or more
energy sources 25 after the energy has interacted with the rock formations (not shown) below the
water bottom. Signals generated by the geophysical sensors 30 may be communicated to the
recording system 20.
        [0022] In accordance with an embodiment, a geophysical data product indicative of
certain properties of the subsurface rock may be produced from the detected energy. The
geophysical data product may include processed seismic or electromagnetic geophysical data and
may be stored on a non-transitory, tangible computer-readable medium. The geophysical data
product may be produced offshore (i.e. by equipment on a vessel) or onshore (i.e. at a facility on
land) either within the United States or in another country. If the geophysical data product is
produced offshore or in another country, it may be imported onshore to a facility in the United
States. Once onshore in the United States, geophysical analysis may be performed on the data
product.
        [0023] The streamers 40 may further include streamer rotation devices 50. As illustrated,
the streamer rotation devices 50 may be disposed on the streamers 40 at spaced apart locations.
In some embodiments, the streamer rotation devices 50 may have a spacing of about 200 meters
to about 400 meters. Each streamer rotation device 50 may provide rotational torque to cause its
rotation, and likewise rotation of the portion of the streamer 40 adjacent to the streamer rotation
device 50. The streamer rotation devices 50 may also be used, for example, in the regulation of
the streamer depth and streamer lateral positioning. In addition to regulation of depth and
streamer lateral position, the streamer rotation devices 50 may also contain devices that output
roll count and/or force data. In some embodiments, existing lateral force and depth (LFD) control
devices may be used as streamer rotational devices. The LFD control devices may be any of a
variety of different devices suitable for changing streamer orientation and/or position, including
"birds" having variable-incidence wings. In one example, streamer rotation devices 50 may
include variable incidence wings that are rotatably fixed onto the streamer. Examples of suitable
streamer rotation devices 50 are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,525,992 and U.S. Patent No.
6,932,017. An example of a LFD control device that would be a suitable streamer rotation device
50 is the Q-Fin lateral steering unit, available from WesternGeco, Houston, Texas.
        [0024] Ideally, the streamers 40 operate free of twist. However, a streamer 40 often may
rotate around its center axis (i.e., twist) during deployment, operation, or retrieval. Accordingly,
                                                   5

                                                                              PGS-13-15US-CON1
the streamers 40 may include a distributed network of rotation sensors 55 at spaced apart
locations so streamer twist can be determined at various locations along the streamer 40. Using
the determined streamer twist, the streamer rotation devices 50 may be rotated to counteract the
streamer twist. The distributed network of rotation sensors 55 may also be used to enable
verification of this anti-twist rotation implemented by the streamer rotation devices 50. In
addition, a controlled roll or twist may also be introduced into a particular streamer 40 using the
streamer rotation devices 50 and rotation sensors 55 as a means for characterizing the achieved
twist. In contrast, systems used previously have typically only been able to count the number of
rotations at the streamer rotation devices 50 themselves with no way for characterization of
streamer twist between streamer rotation devices 50. For example, FIG. 7 illustrates a prior art
streamer 105 comprising a pair of LFD control devices 110. In operation, the LFD control
devices 110 may be configured to provide a roll count. In other words, each LFD control device
110 may measure the number of 360-degree rotations at the particular LFD control device 110.
However, the rotation of the streamer 105 or a characterization thereof between the LFD control
devices 110 is not determined or otherwise known.
         [0025] Each rotation sensor 55 has an output that is representative of, or can be processed
to determine, the orientation of the corresponding streamer 40 at the particular rotation sensor 55
with respect to the streamer's longitudinal axis. For example, the rotation sensors 55 may be
used to measure rotation of the corresponding streamer 40 about its longitudinal axis. In one
embodiment, the rotation sensors 55 may include a vector sensor, such as 2- or 3-axis vector
sensors. In some embodiments, the vector sensors may be orientation or tilt sensors, which may
measure angles of slope and/or inclination of the corresponding streamer 40 with respect to
Earth's gravity. Tilt sensors may also be referred to as "inclinometers." In an embodiment, the
rotation sensors 55 may measure the roll angle of the corresponding streamer 40 about its
longitudinal axis. The roll angle 0 is shown on FIG. 8. The local coordination system (x, y, z) for
a particular rotation sensor 55 is shown on FIG. 8. In the illustration on FIG. 8, the roll angle 0 is
the angle of rotation about longitudinal axis 110 of the streamer 40 between the global Z-axis (Z)
and the local z-axis (z). Examples of suitable vector sensors may include accelerometers or
magnetoresistive sensors, either of which may be DC-coupled to measure the Earth's magnetic
field or the Earth's gravity. In particular embodiments, the rotation sensors 55 may be micro
electrical mechanical systems (MEMS) rotation sensors. In particular embodiments, the rotation
                                                  6

                                                                                PGS-13-15US-CON1
sensors 55 may be a MEMS accelerometer. For example, the output of the MEMS accelerometer
(or other accelerometer) may be processed to give the streamer twist. The accelerometer may
measure the projection of gravity vector along the sensing axis. In some embodiments, a 2-axis
accelerometer may provide a measurement of linear acceleration along the x- and y-axes. In
some embodiments, a 3-axis accelerometer may provide a measurement of linear acceleration
along the x-, y-, and z-axes. Because the force of gravity is known and always acts towards
Earth's center, the accelerometer outputs may be processed to give the roll angle. The sensitivity
and accuracy may be improved with a 3-axis accelerometer over a 2-axis accelerometer due to
the addition of the z-axis measurements.
         [0026] The rotation sensors 55 may be rigidly mounted to the corresponding streamer 40
so that their output represents streamer roll at their current locations. The rotation sensors 55 may
not be co-located with the streamer rotation devices 50. The rotation sensors 55 do not need to be
co-located with any geophysical sensors 30 (although they may be in some embodiments). As
used herein, sensors are considered co-located when the sensors are fixed to the same mechanical
mount or otherwise cannot move relative to one another. In some embodiments, co-location with
the geophysical sensors 30 may not be feasible from a cost or power consumption perspective;
accordingly, it may be desirable to not have the rotation sensors 55 and geophysical sensors 30
co-located. From a measurement perspective, it may be desirable to have a less dense distribution
of rotation sensors 55 than geophysical sensors 30, as the operational requirements are likely to
be non-overlapping.
         [0027] Streamer twist may have a significant impact on the acquired signal from the
geophysical sensors 30, as the response of a particular geophysical sensor 30 or group thereof
may be not only dependent on the rotation but also on the rate of change of the rotation along the
particular streamer 40. Thus, it may be advantageous to know streamer twist (and have the
ability to counteract the streamer twist), which may be especially important when forming
groups of geophysical sensors 30 which are locally fixed vector sensors and/or when separating
the rotation sensors 55 from the geophysical sensors 30. Groups of geophysical sensors 30 may
be formed, for example, by summing the output of a number of geophysical sensors 30 to form
an output group, for example, with reduced noise.
         [0028] The rotation sensors 55 may be spaced along the length of the streamers 40. In
some embodiments, the rotation sensors 55 may have a spacing of from about 2 meters to about
                                                   7

                                                                            PGS-13-15US-CON1
50 meters on the streamers 40 or a particular section thereof. In particular embodiments, the
rotation sensors 55 may have spacing of about 5 meters to about 10 meters on the streamers 40 or
a particular section thereof. In some embodiments, the rotation sensors 55 may have a uniform
distribution along the streamers 40 or a particular section thereof. For example, the rotation
sensors 55 may be uniformly distributed over a streamer section having a length of from about
75 meters to about 150 meters in some embodiments. In some embodiments, at least 10 rotation
sensors 55 and up to 20 or more rotation sensors 55 may be distributed over the streamer section.
Uniformly distributing the rotation sensors 55 may allow for twist characterization up to the
Nyquist frequency, assuming the number of rotation sensors 55 is twice that of the expected
maximum twist rate per streamer section. The Nyquist frequency is defined as half of the
sampling frequency of a digital recording system. If the sampled data contains frequencies above
the Nyquist frequency, distortion due to aliasing typically occurs. In some embodiments, it may
be expected that a streamer section may experience a twist rate that does not exceed 50' per
meter, equivalent to 10 full rotations on a 75-meter streamer section, should the entire streamer
section be twisted at the same rate. However, as seen in FIG. 1, severe twist conditions may be
possible, thus requiring a denser sampling of the local twist.
         [0029] By acquiring rotation measurements at rotation sensors 55, the streamer twist on a
streamer 40 or a particular section thereof may be determined. The streamer twist may be
determined, for example, between two points on the streamer if rotation at each point and
distance between the two points are both known. As will be discussed in more detail below, FIG.
4 illustrates an example portion of a streamer 40 having streamer rotation devices 50 and rotation
sensors 55a-f. The distance di between rotation sensor 55a and 55b, in some embodiments, is
known. Accordingly, by acquisition of rotation measurements at rotation sensor 55a and rotation
sensor 55b, the streamer twist between rotation sensors 55a, 55b may be determined. In some
embodiments, the streamer twist between adjacent rotation sensors 55 may be determined, for
example, using a suitable interpolation technique, such as linear or cubic spline interpolation. In
particular embodiments, the streamer twist over a streamer section may not be uniform. To
account for this potential non-uniformity in the streamer twist, a more robust interpolation
technique such as cubic splines may be used to determine streamer twist between adjacent
rotation sensors 55. Accordingly, the expected error in the streamer twist may typically be of the
same magnitude as the orientation determination. As would be understood by one of ordinary
                                                 8

                                                                             PGS-13-15US-CON1
skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure, four orientation points may be used to
determine the slope between a pair of adjacent rotation sensors 55. Slope may also be determined
between adjacent rotation sensors 55 with only two rotation points (e.g., using linear
interpolation).
         [0030] In some embodiments, the geophysical survey system 5 may further include a
rotation device control system 60 configured to send control signals to the streamer rotation
devices 50 to untwist one or more sections of the corresponding streamer 40. The applicable
rotational torque for each streamer rotation device 50 may be determined to reduce streamer
twist, which may be local or global streamer twist. The rotation device control system 60 may
include, for example, a processor, memory, and input/out devices. The rotation device control
system 60 may be in signal communication with the streamer rotation devices 50 and rotation
sensors 55, which may be a wired or wireless connection, for example. The rotation device
control system 60 may also be in signal communication with the recording system 20. The
rotation device control system 60 may send control signals to untwist at pre-determined periods
or when a specified streamer twist has been reached. In some embodiments, the rotation device
control system 60 may send signals to the streamer rotation devices 50 to cause rotation. As
illustrated in FIG. 2, the rotation device control system 60 may be located on or near the survey
vessel 10. Alternatively, all or a portion of the rotation device control system 60 may located
within or near the streamer rotation devices 50 (for example, local rotation device control system
75 in FIG. 3). The rotation device control system 60 may receive output from the rotation sensors
55 indicative of streamer orientation. Using the output from the rotation sensors 55, streamer
twist may be determined. The streamer twist may be determined locally for a particular streamer
section or determined globally for an entire streamer 40. Additional input to the rotation device
control system 60 may include, for example, noise data and output from the streamer rotation
devices 50, such as roll counts and force data. The noise data may be noise in the output from the
rotation sensors 55, which may be provided by analysis of the output by the rotation device
control system 60, for example.
         [0031] FIG. 3 shows an example portion of a streamer 40 having a streamer rotation
device 50 and rotation sensors 55. As illustrated, the rotation sensors 55 may also be distributed
along the portion of the streamer 40. While not illustrated, one or more geophysical sensors 30
(e.g., shown on FIG. 2) may also be distributed along the portion of the streamer 40. The
                                                  9

                                                                              PGS-13-15US-CON1
streamer rotation device 50 may be disposed on the streamer 40. As illustrated, the streamer
rotation device 50 may have wings 65 coupled to a device body 70. While two wings 65 are
shown on FIG. 3, embodiments of the streamer rotation device 50 may comprise more (or less)
than two wings 65. In some embodiments, the streamer rotation device 50 may be disposed
inline between adjacent streamer sections 40a, 40b. To cause rotation, rotational torque may be
introduced into the wings 65 to produce rotation of the streamer rotation device 50. Rotational
torque may be introduced by, for example, introducing a wing rotation (e.g., clockwise rotation)
relation to the wing axis to generate torque on the streamer 40. As the streamer rotation device
50 rotates, the rotational torque may be incrementally reduced to slow the rate of rotation until
the desired rotation has been achieved. The streamer rotation device 50 may further include a
local rotation device control system 75 in place of, or in addition to, the rotation device control
system 60 (e.g., shown on FIG. 2). In some embodiments, the local rotation device control
system 75 may function in conjunction with the rotation device control system 60 to control
rotational movement of the streamer rotation device 50.
         [0032] FIG. 4 shows another example portion of a streamer 40 having streamer rotation
devices 50 and rotation sensors 55a-f, wherein the adjacent streamer rotation devices 50 are
spaced along the streamer 40 a distance D1 . As illustrated, the rotation sensors 55a-f may also be
distributed along the portion of the streamer 40. While not illustrated, one or more geophysical
sensors 30 (e.g., shown on FIG. 2) may also be distributed along the portion of the streamer 40.
In the illustrated embodiment, the streamer rotation devices 50 are spaced on the streamer 40 a
distance D1rof from about 100 meters to about 500 meters and, alternatively, about 200 meters to
about 400 meters. In one particular embodiment, the streamer rotation devices 50 may be spaced
a distance Di of about 300 meters. The rotation sensors 55a-f may be distributed between the pair
of streamer rotation devices 50. As previously mentioned, control signals may be sent to the
streamer rotation devices 50 from the rotation device control system 60 (e.g., shown on FIG. 2)
to cause their rotation, thus causing corresponding rotation of streamer 40. Rotation of the
streamer rotation devices 50 is shown on FIG. 4 by arrows 80. In accordance with present
embodiments, the streamer rotation devices 50 may be rotated to counteract the streamer twist.
By way of example, the streamer rotation devices 50 may be rotated together or separately to
institute an untwist rotation in the streamer 40. In some embodiments, different control signals
may be sent to the streamer rotation devices 50 causing different amounts of rotation to be
                                                10

                                                                               PGS-13-15US-CON1
applied at each streamer rotation device 50. In other words, the streamer rotation devices 50 may
each be set to provide a different rotational torque.
         [0033] As previously mentioned, the rotation sensors 55a-f may be used to measure
streamer twist. FIG. 5 illustrates roll measurements for an example portion of a streamer 40 such
as that shown on FIG. 4. In FIG. 5, the roll measurements are for an example in which rotation
sensors 55a-f may be used to provide a direct measurement of the streamer twist. In the
illustrated embodiment, roll measurements at each of the rotation sensors 55a-f are used to
determine the streamer twist over the streamer 40. Using the roll measurements, control signals
may be sent to the streamer rotation devices 50 to implement an untwist operation. The untwist
operation may be verified by monitoring streamer twist using the rotation sensors 55a-f. In other
words, the streamer twist measured by the rotation sensors 55a-f may be used to monitor the
effectiveness of the untwist operation.
         [0034] FIG. 6 illustrates an example method for performing a streamer untwist operation
with an automated feedback loop. As illustrated, the method may include receiving (at block 85)
data indicative of streamer twist. The data may be indicative of local streamer twist or global
streamer twist, for example. As previously described, the data indicative of streamer twist may
be received from the rotation sensors 55a-f, which have an output that may be representative of,
or can be processed to determine, streamer orientation (rotation about its longitudinal axis) from
which streamer twist may be determined. At block 90, it may be determined whether streamer
twist is within boundary condition. For example, the streamer twist may be compared to a
predetermined boundary condition to determine if an untwist operation is necessary. If the
streamer twist is within the boundary condition, then the method may end. If the streamer twist is
not within the boundary condition, then the method may further include determining (at block
95) rotational torque for at least one of the streamer rotation devices 50 to reduce streamer twist.
As previously described, the rotational torque may be determined by the rotation device control
system 60. The method may further including performing (at block 100) an untwist operation. By
way of example, control signals may be sent from the rotation device control system 60 to the
streamer rotation devices 50 causing rotation to be applied to the sensors streamer 40 at the
streamer rotation devices 50. While the untwist operation is being performed, additional data
may be received (at block 85). This additional data may be used in determining whether streamer
twist is within the boundary condition (block 90), for example, after performance of the untwist
                                                  11

                                                                                PGS-13-15US-CON1
operation. If the streamer twist is within the boundary condition, then the streamer twist
operation may be ended and rotational torque provided by the streamer rotation devices 50 may
be ended. However, if streamer twist is not within the boundary condition, then an adjusted
rotational torque may be determined (at block 95) for one or more of the streamer rotation
devices 50. By way of example, the rotational torque may be incrementally reduced to slow the
rate of rotation until the desired rotation has been achieved. The adjusted rotational torque may
then be used in the untwist operation being performed (at block 100).
         [0035] While the preceding description describes an automated feedback routine in
which streamer twist is received from rotation sensors 55 and fed to a rotation device control
system 60, alternative embodiments may employ a manual feedback routine. A manual feedback
routine may be desired in some embodiments for reduced complexity and to reduce unnecessary
twist optimization should removing all local twist be problematic.
         [0036] If there is a conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and or
more patent or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference, the definitions that
are consistent with this specification should be adopted for the purposes of understanding this
invention.
         [0037] Although specific embodiments have been described above, these embodiments
are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure, even where only a single
embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature. Examples of features provided in
the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless stated otherwise. The
above description is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as would
be apparent to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.
         [0038] The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of
features disclosed herein (either explicitly or implicitly), or any generalization thereof, whether
or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Various advantages of the present
disclosure have been described herein, but embodiments may provide some, all, or none of such
advantages, or may provide other advantages.
                                                  12

                                                                                PGS-13-15US-CON1
What is claimed is:
        1.      A system for marine geophysical surveying comprising:
                a streamer;
                geophysical sensors at spaced apart locations on the streamer, wherein the
geophysical sensors are configured to generate signals in response to detecting energy emitted
from one or more energy sources;
                streamer rotation devices at spaced apart locations on the streamer; and
                rotation sensors at spaced apart locations on the streamer.
        2.      The system of claim 1, further comprising a rotation device control system in
signal communication with the streamer rotation devices, wherein the rotation device control
system is configured to receive data from the rotation sensors indicative of streamer twist and
determine a roll angle for one or more of the streamer rotation devices to reduce streamer twist.
        3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the geophysical sensors comprise at least one
sensor selected from the group consisting of a geophone, hydrophone, accelerometer, and
electromagnetic field sensor.
        4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the streamer rotation devices each comprise
variable incidence wings.
        5.      The system of claim 1, wherein each of the rotation sensors is configured to have
an output that is representative of orientation of the streamer at the particular rotation sensor with
respect to a longitudinal axis of the streamer.
        6.      The system of claim 1, wherein each of the rotation sensors comprise a vector
sensor.
        7.      The system of claim 1, wherein each of the rotations sensors are configured to
measure a roll angle of the streamer about a longitudinal axis of the streamer.
                                                  13

                                                                             PGS-13-15US-CON1
        8.      The system of claim 1, wherein each of the rotation sensors comprise a micro
electrical mechanical system accelerometer.
        9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the rotation sensors are rigidly mounted to the
streamer.
         10.    The system of claim 1, wherein the rotation sensors are not co-located with the
streamer rotation devices.
         11.    The system of claim 1, wherein the rotation sensors have a spacing of about 2
meters to about 50 meters, and wherein the streamer rotation devices have a spacing of about 100
meters to about 500 meters.
         12.    The system of claim 11, wherein the rotation sensors have a spacing of about 5
meters to about 10 meters.
         13.    The system of claim 1, wherein the streamer comprises a streamer section having
a length of about 75 meters to about 150 meters, wherein the streamer section comprises ten or
more of the rotation sensors distributed over the streamer section.
         14.    A method for reducing streamer twist comprising:
                towing a streamer in a body of water;
                generating response signals from geophysical sensors disposed on the streamer,
wherein the response signals are generated in response detecting energy emitted one or more
energy sources;
                acquiring rotation measurements at rotation sensors on the streamer;
                determining the streamer twist between an adjacent pair of the rotation sensors
based at least in part on the rotation measurements; and
                sending control signals to streamer rotation devices on the streamer to cause
rotation of the streamer such that the streamer twist is reduced.
                                                 14

                                                                                PGS-13-15US-CON1
        15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the rotation sensors measure linear acceleration,
and wherein an output of the rotation sensors is processed to determine roll angle.
        16.     The method of claim 14, wherein the rotation sensors measure inclination of the
streamer.
        17.     The method of claim 14, wherein the rotation sensors measure roll angle of the
streamer.
        18.     The method of claim 14, wherein the step of determining the streamer twist
comprises using an interpolation technique.
        19.     The method of claim 14, further comprising determining whether the streamer
twist is within a boundary condition, and wherein the control signal are sent to the streamer
rotation devices when the streamer twist is not within the boundary condition.
        20.     The method of claim 15, further comprising determining whether the streamer
twist is within the boundary condition after the step of sending control signals; determining an
adjusted rotational torque for the streamer rotation devices if the streamer twist is not within the
boundary condition after the step of sending control signals; and then incrementally reducing the
rotational torque of the streamer rotation devices to slow rate of rotation of the streamer.
                                                 15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
