                                            12
   ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A carrying bag includes: a bag body, having a main body and side cover,
   one side of the side cover in connection with one side of the main body; a
   counterweight mechanism, having a base seat, display combination portion
 5 and at least one hinge configured between the base seat and display
   combination portion, the base seat configured inside the main body, and one
   side of the display combination portion in combination with the side cover; a
   display, combined with and fixed to another side of the display combination
   portion; and a sliding mobile phone holder, combined slidably with one side of
10 the display combination portion and positioned between the display
   combination portion and side cover. Whereby, only one carrying bag of the
   present invention can store a plurality of electronic devices with a screen
   simultaneously so as to reduce a user's carrying burden and realize
   multi-screen mobile office environment.

                  ('3
      ('3
             N)
             ('3
-~ N)                 -~
                 N)      ('3
          N)

                                              I
   TITLE: CARRYING BAG WITH PLACEMENT RACK
     (a) Technical Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a carrying bag, and more particularly to a
   carrying bag with a placement rack.
 5 (b) Description of the Prior Art
         Notebook computers or tablet computers are always stored in carrying
   bag for portable convenience since they are larger in size and weight
   compared to smaller electronic products such as smart phones.       Generally
   speaking, most of these carrying bags only have a single function of storing
10 items.   However, modem office environment is being developed toward
   multi-screen, mobilization, and other trends; dual screen or projection between
   screens of different devices (for example, between screens of different sizes,
   but in fact is not limited to this) at work has already been very popular such
   that users need to carry multiple carrying bags and these devices with a screen,
15 which is very inconvenient in use.

                                           2
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        One object of the present invention is to provide a multi-functional
   carrying bag.
        To achieve the object mentioned above, the present invention proposes a
 5 carrying bag, including: a bag body, having a main body and side cover, one
   side of the side cover in connection with one side of the main body; a
   counterweight mechanism, having a base seat, display combination portion
   and at least one hinge configured between the base seat and display
   combination portion, the base seat configured inside the main body, and one
10 side of the display combination portion in combination with the side cover; a
   display, combined with and fixed to another side of the display combination
   portion; and a sliding mobile phone holder, combined slidably with one side of
   the display combination portion and positioned between the display
   combination portion and side cover.
15      According to the carrying bag mentioned above, the display is configured
   with a signal input module.
        According to the carrying bag mentioned above, the signal input module
   is an electric connector or wireless communication module.
        According to the carrying bag mentioned above, one side of the display
20 combination portion is configured with two fixing pins, the sliding mobile

                                            3
   phone holder two long-strip shaped through holes parallel to each other, and
   the two fixing pins of said display combination portion are passed through the
   two respective long-strip through holes of the sliding mobile phone holder.
        According to the carrying bag mentioned above, a wireless charging
 5 module is configured inside the sliding mobile phone holder.
        Whereby, the present invention needs to use only one carrying bag, and a
   plurality of electronic devices with a screen can then be stored simultaneously
   so as to reduce a user's carrying burden and realize multi-screen mobile office
   environment, and further to increase the practicality and use convenience of
10 the present invention substantially.

                                           4
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIG 1 is an exploded view of a preferred embodiment of the present
   invention;
        FIG 2 is a perspective view of the embodiment of the present invention;
 5      FIG 3 is a side view of the embodiment of the present invention, showing
   the adjustment of the displaying angle of a display;
        FIG 4 is a perspective view of the embodiment of the present invention,
   showing the accommodation and storage of items;
        FIG 5 is a perspective view of the embodiment of the present invention,
10 showing a mobile phone placed thereon and a notebook computer is being
   connected therewith in a wired way; and
        FIG 6 is a perspective view of the embodiment of the present invention,
   showing a mobile phone placed thereon and a notebook computer is being
   connected therewith in a wireless way
15

                                              5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
        Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, a carrying bag of the present invention
   includes a bag body 1, counterweight mechanism 2, display 3 and sliding
   mobile phone holder 4.
 5      The bag body 1 has a main body 11 and side cover 12, where one side of
   the side cover 12 is in connection with one side of the main body 11 for
   example by means of sewing or integral formation, thereby allowing the side
   cover 12 to be closed or opened relatively to the main body 1, where the bag
   body 1 may be made of one of various common materials used to make bags
10 such as cloth, plastics or leather, but the present invention in fact is not so
   limited.   Furthermore, the main body 11 is configured with an
   accommodation space 111 for accommodation and storage of an item or items.
   For example, the main body 11, in a preferred embodiment, may be used to
   store a notebook computer 5 as FIG 4 shows, i.e. the present invention is used
15 as a notebook computer bag, but the present invention is in fact not so limited
   in use.
        The counterweight mechanism 2 has a base seat 21, display combination
   portion 22 and at least one hinge configured between the base seat 21 and
   display combination portion 22, thereby allowing the display combination
20 portion 22 to be rotated relatively to the base seat 21, where the base seat 21 is

                                             6
   configured inside the main body 11, one side of the display combination
   portion 22 is in combination with the side cover 12, and the display
   combination portion 22 may specifically be a flat plate.      In addition, one side
   of the display combination portion 22 is further configured with two fixing
 5 pins 24.
         The display 3 is in combination with and fixed to another side of the
   display combination portion 22.      Specifically, the size of the display 3 may
   be adjusted and varied according to practical requirements, and the display 3
   itself may generally be fit in with the bag body 1, especially the side cover 12
10 of the bag body 1. Furthermore, the display 3 is configured with a signal
   input module 31 adapted to receive image signals transmitted from a signal
   source, thereby allowing the display 3 to display image signals.       More
   specifically, the signal input module 31 may be an electric connector such as
   USB type C connector, may support a wireless image transmission technology
15 Miracast, Airplay, WiDi, Chromecast or DLNA, or may also be a wireless
   communication module such as WiFi module or mmWave communication
   module.     Namely, the display 3 of the present invention receives and display
   the image signals transmitted from the signal source in a wired or wireless way,
   and even more, the display 3, in a preferred embodiment, may also has the

                                           7
   capability of supporting both wired and wireless image transmissions at the
   same time.
         The sliding mobile phone holder 4 may be slidably coupled to one side of
   display combination 22 and positioned between the display combination
 5 portion 22 and side cover 12; the sliding mobile phone holder 4 is configured
   two long-striped type through holes 41 parallel to each other, which are passed
   through with the two respective fixing pins 24 of the display combination
   portion 22, thereby allowing the sliding mobile phone holder 4 to be slid
   relatively to the display combination portion 22.   Furthermore, the sliding
10 mobile phone 4 is configured with at least one mobile phone combination
   element 42.     In a preferred embodiment, the mobile phone combination
   element 42 may be an adhesive such as double-sided adhesive or other
   reusable adhesive as FIG 1 shows, thereby allowing a mobile phone such as
   smart phone 6 to be placed or combined with the sliding mobile phone holder
15 4 with the mobile phone combination elements 42.      Naturally, the mobile
   phone combination element 42, in other feasible embodiments, may also be a
   clamp arm (not shown in the figures) or other structure capable of mounting
   and fixing a mobile phone, and the present invention is not so limited.   In
   addition, a wireless charger 43 may be further configured inside the sliding
20 mobile phone holder 4, thereby allowing the sliding mobile phone holder 4 to

                                             8
   charge the smart phone 6 having a wireless charging function additionally
   such that the functionality and practicality of the present invention can further
   be improved; since both the detailed structure and operation principle of the
   wireless charging module 43 are common knowledge in the field and not
 5 subject matters of the present invention, the details thereof are omitted here.
        Referring to HG 3 again, the display combination portion 22 is used to be
   respectively in combination with the side cover 12 and display 3, and the
   hinge 23 is configured between the display combination portion 22 and base
   seat 21 so that a user can turn the display 3 to adjust the display angle thereof.
10 Next, referring to HG 4, the user can then close the entire side cover 12 and
   display 3 to hide the display 3 under the side cover 12 when the display 3 and
   carrying bag are not in use. In addition, referring to HGS. 5 and 6 again,
   since the present invention configures the sliding mobile phone holder 4, the
   user can slide the sliding mobile phone holder 4 out at the same time when
15 opening the display 3 and then fix the smart phone 6 on the sliding mobile
   phone holder 4. Even more, the user may further transmit or project pictures
   of the notebook computer 4 onto the display 3 in a wired or wireless way as
   HGS. 5 and 6 respectively show. It is worth to mention that the user in fact
   can transmit or project pictures of the smart phone 6 onto the display 3 in a
20 wired or wireless way according to the same working principle.

                                            9
        With the carrying bag of the present invention itself having a screen (i.e.
   the display 3) and the counterweight mechanism 2 in combination with the
   sliding mobile phone holder 4 (i.e. a placement rack for the placement of a
   mobile phone), users can store and carry a notebook computer, mobile phone
 5 and another screen or display 3 at the same time only carrying one single
   carrying bag of the present invention, and pictures of the notebook computer
   or mobile phone can be projected onto the display 3 so as to reduce the
   carrying burden of the users and realize multi-screen mobile office
   environment, and further to increase the practicality and use convenience of
10 the present invention substantially.

                                         10
   I CLAIM:
       1. A carrying bag, comprising:
          a bag body, having a main body and side cover, one side of said side
          cover in connection with one side of said main body;
 5        a counterweight mechanism, having a base seat, display combination
          portion and at least one hinge configured between said base seat and
          display combination portion, said base seat configured inside said
          main body, and one side of said display combination portion in
          combination with said side cover;
10        a display, combined with and fixed to another side of said display
          combination portion; and
          a sliding mobile phone holder, combined slid ably with one side of
          said display combination portion and positioned between said display
          combination portion and side cover.
15     2. The carrying bag according to claim 1, wherein said display is
          configured with a signal input module.
       3. The carrying bag according to claim 2, wherein said signal input
          module is an electric connector or wireless communication module.
       4. The carrying bag according to claim 1, wherein one side of said
20        display combination portion is configured with two fixing pins, said

                                     11
     sliding mobile phone holder two long-strip shaped through holes
     parallel to each other, and said two fixing pins of said display
     combination portion are passed through said two respective
     long-strip through holes of said sliding mobile phone holder.
5 5. The carrying bag according to claim 4, wherein a wireless charging
     module is configured inside said sliding mobile phone holder.

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.1

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.2

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.3

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.5

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.6

