ABSTRACT
An apparatus for use in a surgical procedure for restricting the movement of the cardiac
notch of a patient, wherein the apparatus is adapted to be inserted into the patient's body
by an insertion device of an instrument, be invaginated by the fungus wall of the patient,
and be positioned, when implanted and in function, mainly on the sinister side of the
esophagus, wherein the apparatus comprises a bio-compatible body for resting against the
fungus wall, has a circumference of at least 15mm, when implanted and in function, has a
volume of at least 125 mm3, and wherein the apparatus is adapted to be secured, indirectly
or directly, to the esophagus, thereby restricting the movement of the cardiac notch of the
patient, preventing the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the
patient's thorax, maintaining the supporting pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter
muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen, and thereby treating reflux disease.

                                                  1
                           AN APPARATUS FOR TREATING GERD
 5 TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention relates to an apparatus for treating Gastroesophageal Reflux
   Disease (GERD).
   BACKGROUND
   Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), or acid reflux disease, is a chronic condition
10 resulting in mucosal damage in the oesophagus produced by the recurring occurrence of
   acid reflux in the oesophagus. This is commonly due to transient or permanent changes in
   the barrier between the oesophagus and the stomach. This can be due to incompetence of
   the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), transient LES relaxation, impaired expulsion of
   gastric reflux from the esophagus, or a hiatal hernia.
15 Gastroesophageal     Reflux Disease can be treated in a number of different ways.
   Treatments include, but are not limited to, both medical and surgical treatments. A
   standard surgical treatment,      which sometimes is preferred over longtime use of
   medication, is Nissen fundoplication surgery, in which the upper curve of the stomach
   (the fundus) is wrapped around the LES to strengthen the sphincter and prevent acid
20 reflux and to repair a hiatal hernia. The procedure is often done laparoscopically.
   Another surgical treatment which has been used is the Anglechik prosthesis, in which a
   device formed like a horseshoe is placed around the oesophagus above the cardia.
   The intended effect is to prevent the cardia from slipping up into the thorax cavity.
   However, this device has a number of complications, including migrating through and
25 damaging the oesophagus.
   From experience with implantation of medical devices, it is known that sutures between
   an implanted device and human tissue will not hold over the long term. For long term
   implantation of a device, there are two possibilities to keep the device in place. A first
   solution has been to suture human tissue to human tissue, to thereby keep the device in
30 place. A second approach has been to provide sutures holding a device in place in the
   short term and to allow in-growth of human tissue into the device for holding the device
   in place over the long term.

                                                  2
 5 A problem with providing an implantable device associated with the oesophagus is that
   the outer surface of the oesophagus is only comprised of oesophagus muscle tissue,
   which is very easy to damage or migrate through. This is probably one reason why the
   Anglechik prosthesis described above has resulted in many complications, such as
   migration.
10 The stomach, on the other hand, has a serosa on its outside, thereby providing a much
   stronger membrane for suturing. Thus, suturing a device directly to the stomach wall
   provides a better result than suturing an implanted device to the oesophagus.
   Today, there exists a need for a long term treatment of GERD that is more effective than
   prior treatments and which does not result in any severe complications.
15 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least reduce, some of the
   problems associated with existing surgical treatments of Gastroesophageal Reflux
   Disease (GERD).
   It is another object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for treating
20 gastroesophageal reflux disease.
   These objects and others are obtained by apparatus described in the appended claims.
   Thus, by providing an apparatus for the treatment of acid reflux disease including an
   implantable movement restriction device having an outer surface that includes                a
   biocompatible material, wherein the movement restriction device is adapted to rest with
25 at least a part of its outer surface against the patient's stomach fundus wall, in a position
   between the patient's diaphragm and the fundus wall, such that movement of the cardiac
   notch of the patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is restricted, an apparatus
   for treating Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease is obtained.
   The movement restriction device has a size of at least 125 mm3 and a circumference of at
30 least 15 mm and restricts movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards
   the patient's diaphragm thereby preventing the cardia from sliding through the patient's
   diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, maintaining the supporting pressure against
   the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen. Fixation device
   are adapted to secure the movement restriction device in said position.

                                                   3
 5 In an aspect of the invention, there is provided an apparatus for treating reflux disease of a
   human or animal mammal patient, the apparatus comprising an implantable movement
   restriction device adapted to be completely at least partly invaginated by the patient's stomach
   fundus wall and having an outer surface that includes a biocompatible material, wherein a
   substantial part of the outer surface of the movement restriction device is adapted to rest
10 against the stomach wall, without restricting food passage in the food passageway when
   implanted and in function, and without injuring the stomach wall in a position between the
   patient's diaphragm and at least a portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach fundus
   wall, such that movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards the patient's
   diaphragm is restricted, when the movement restriction device is invaginated, to thereby
15 prevent the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's
   thorax, so as to maintain the supporting pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle
   exerted from the patient's abdomen, the movement restriction device having a size, when
   implanted and in function of at least 125 mm3 and a circumference of at least 15 mm., and
   such that the functional movement restriction device can be completely invaginated by the
20 stomach fundus of the human patient.
   By adapting the outer surface of the implanted movement restriction device to rest against
   the wall of the fundus, there is a minimal risk of complications, such as migration of
   damage to tissue, because the fundus is less fragile than the oesophagus.
   In a first embodiment of the invention, the fixation device comprises sutures or staples
25 that attach together portions of the fundus stomach wall that enclose the movement
   restriction device to secure the movement restriction device in said position. I.e., the
   movement restriction device is at least partly placed in an invaginated space. Thus, by
   affixing the implantable movement restriction device indirectly in this manner, no
   suturing between the movement restriction device and tissue is required, which, in tum,
30 further reduces the risk for complications.
   Keeping the movement restriction device in place in this manner has resulted in an elastic
   suspension with improved long term properties.
   The fixation device, such as sutures or staplers, may attach together portions of the
   fundus stomach wall so at to substantially or completely invaginate the movement
35 restriction device from either inside or outside of the patient's stomach wall. Where the

                                                    4
 5 movement restriction device is placed on the outside of the patient's stomach wall, the
   movement restriction device is invaginated by the fundus stomach wall such that the
   stomach cavity is substantially reduced, by a volume substantially exceeding the volume
   of the movement restriction device.
   In a second embodiment of the invention, the fixation device comprises an implantable
10 first fixation device that attach the movement restriction device in said position to the
   fundus wall, a second fixation device that secures, indirectly or directly, the movement
   restriction device to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles. Any of the
   first, second and third fixation devices may be comprised of a plurality of sutures or
   staples. The first fixation device may comprise a tissue growth promoting structure for
15 long term attachment of the movement restriction device to the stomach wall. The tissue
   growth promoting structure may be sutured to the stomach wall with a relatively large
   contact surface towards the stomach. The relatively large surface of the structure, such as
   a net, will allow for in-growth of human tissue for holding the movement restriction
   device in place over the long term. The tissue growth promoting structure may comprise
20 sutures or staples that attach the net like structure to the fundus stomach wall.
   In addition to invaginating the movement restriction device in accordance with the first
   embodiment of the invention, the second fixation device can be used to secure, indirectly
   or directly, the movement restriction device to the oesophagus close to the patient's angle
   of His, and the third fixation device may be used to secure, indirectly    or directly, the
25 movement restriction device to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles. At
   least a part of the movement restriction device may be made of a material which is
   destructible or not destructible by stomach acid.
   The movement restriction device may be inflatable and adapted to be inflated with a gel
   or fluid. A fluid or gel receiving member for receiving fluid to inflate the movement
30 restriction device may be provided.
   The movement restriction device may include a homogenous material and may be a solid
   body.
   The movement restriction device may include an enclosure wall defining a chamber.
   The movement restriction device may have a rigid, elastic or flexible outer wall. Where

                                                   5
 5 the outer wall is rigid, it is rigid enough to maintain non-deformed when subject to forces
   created by stomach movements. Where the movement restriction device is invaginated, in
   accordance with the first embodiment described above, the movement restriction device
   preferably comprises a body adapted to be at least partly invaginated by the patient's
   stomach fundus wall and having an outer surface that includes a biocompatible material.
10 A substantial part of the outer surface of the body is adapted to rest against the stomach
   wall in said position between the patient's diaphragm and the portion of the lower part of
   the invaginated stomach fundus wall. Suitably, the body is made of a material softer than
   25 or 15 shore.
   In accordance with a first general design of the body, the body has a maximum
15 circumference as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the body. The
   circumferences of the body as seen in other planes perpendicular to said axis are equal to
   the maximum circumference or decrease as seen along said axis in the direction from the
   maximum circumference. For example, the body may be substantially egg shaped,
   spherically shaped, or substantially shaped like an egg with an indented middle section or
20 like a bent egg.
   In accordance with a second general design of the body, the circumference of the body as
   seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the body increases and decreases at least
   two times as the plane is displaced along said axis, or decreases and increases at least one
   time as the plane is displaced along said axis. For example, the body may be substantially
25 shaped like akidney.
   Preferably, the body is dimensioned with a size larger than the intestinal outlet from the
   stomach. The body may have a smallest outer diameter of 30 or 40mm or larger and may
   have a smallest outer circumference of 150, 110, 90, 70, 50 or 30 mm.
   Suitably, the body has rounded contours without too sharp edges that would be damaging
30 to the patient's stomach wall, and has a generally smooth outer surface for resting against
   the fundus wall.
   The body is implantable either inside or outside of the patient's stomach and is adapted to
   be attached to the patient's stomach wall by surgery. The body may be changeable to
   assume a slender form having a smaller diameter than that of a trocar for laparoscopic
35 use, whereby the body when changed to said slender form can be pushed or pulled

                                                      6
 5 through the trocar. The body may include a flexible outer wall defining a chamber filled
   with a fluid, such as a gel, allowing the body to pass through such a trocar. Alternatively,
   the body may include an elastic compressible material, allowing the body to pass through
   a trocar.
   The body may be hollow and include at least two separate pieces adapted to be inserted
10 into the hollow body, and further adapted to be put together to one unitary piece inside
   the body, thereby allowing the body to pass through a trocar for laparoscopic use.
   Alternatively, the body may include an outer wall and a hollow compressed inner part, for
   being filled with a fluid or gel after insertion into the patient's body.
   The body may include a chamber with an injection port, wherein the chamber of the body
15 is filled with a fluid through the injection port.
   The body may include at least one holding device adapted to be used for pushing or
   pulling the body through a trocar for laparoscopic use. The holding device is adapted to
   hold a prolongation of the body that is adapted to be held by a surgical instrument. More
   specifically, the holding device is adapted to hold a thread or band inserted through the
20 holding device. Where the body comprises an outer wall the holding device is at least
   partly placed inside the outer wall of the body.
   In an advantageous embodiment, the body is adjustable in size and invaginated in the
   patient's fundus stomach wall. As a result, the body stretches the patient's stomach fundus
   wall when the size thereof is increased, thereby creating satiety in a patient also suffering
25 from obesity. At least two implantable adjustable stretching devices may be provided to
   stretch different parts of the patient's stomach wall, to thereby treat obesity by efficiently
   affecting the patient's appetite. The two stretching devices are suitably regulated from
   outside of the patient's body, whereby a first of the stretching devices is regulated at a
   first time to stretch a first part of the patient's stomach wall and a second of the stretching
30 devices is regulated at a second time to stretch a second part of the patient's stomach wall.
   The stretching device may be hydraulically regulated. In this case, a subcutaneously
   implantable hydraulic reservoir connected to the hydraulic regulated stretching device
   may be provided, whereby the hydraulic regulated stretching device is non-invasively
   regulated by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir. Further, the movement restriction
35 device suitably includes an inflatable body, and a pump and a chamber in fluid contact

                                                   7
 5 with the body are provided, wherein the pump regulates the hydraulic reservoir by
   pumping fluid or air from the body to the chamber.
   The apparatus may include an implantable stimulation device that sends out stimulation
   pulses to the cardia muscle to stimulate the cardia muscle and thereby further close the
   cardia to additionally prevent reflux disease. The stimulation device is comprised of at
10 least one conductor and at least one electrode that receives the stimulation pulses and
   applies them to the cardia muscle to thereby stimulate the cardia muscle. The at least one
   electrode may also be kept in place by the stomach- oesophagal sutures or invagination in
   the stomach wall. The stimulation pulses may be sent as a train of pulses, wherein the
   pulse train is repeated with a time break in between, the break extending the break
15 between each pulse in the pulse train. The stimulation device may include an electronic
   circuit and an energy source preferably adapted to incorporate the electronic circuit and
   energy source. In one embodiment, the stimulation of the cardia with the stimulation
   device is made with energy pulses to increase the sphincter tonus so that the cardia
   completely closes and a control device for controlling the stimulation device is operable
20 by the patient to set the stimulation device into operation, in which operational state the
   stimulation device continuously alternates at a time when the patient does not swallow
   between an operation mode in which the cardia sphincter is stimulated with said energy
   pulses and a rest mode in which the cardia is not stimulated.
   The stimulation device preferably comprises at least one sensor for sensing a physical
25 parameter of the patient or a functional parameter of the movement restriction device and
   an internal control unit for controlling the stimulation device. Normally, the internal
   control unit controls the stimulation device in response to information from the sensor.
   A sensor sensing a contraction wave of the oesophagus, or any other parameter correlated
   to food intake, sends the information to the internal control unit and the internal control
30 unit then ceases the stimulation in response to such information from the sensor.
   The stimulation device may, at any time, be controlled by the patient.
   The present invention further relates to abdominal surgical methods of treating a reflux
   disease.
   According to a first method a reflux disease in a patient is treated by implanting a

                                                   8
 5 movement restriction device that, when implanted in a patient, restricts the movement of
   the stomach notch in relation to the diaphragm muscle preventing the cardia to slide up
   through the diaphragm hiatus opening. The method comprises the steps of inserting a
   needle or a tube like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body; using the needle
   or tube like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas; placing at least two
10 laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body; inserting a camera through one of the
   laparoscopic trocars into the patient's abdomen, inserting at least one dissecting tool
   through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars; dissecting an area of the stomach;
   introducing the device into the abdominal cavity; placing the device on the outside of the
   stomach fundus wall; and creating a pouch in the stomach fundus wall for the device; and
15 invaginating the device in the pouch by providing sutures or staples to the stomach fundus
   wall, thereby preventing the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening
   into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the pressure support from the patient's
   abdomen that supports the patient's cardia sphincter muscle.
   A second abdominal method of treating a reflux disease for the same purpose uses the
20 initial steps as the first method comprises creating a hole in the stomach fundus wall;
   introducing a movement restriction device into the abdominal cavity; introducing the
   device through the hole and into the stomach; placing the device on the inside of the
   stomach fundus wall; creating a pouch on the outside of the stomach cavity for the device
   placed on the inside of the stomach fundus wall, and invaginating the device in the pouch
25 by providing sutures or staples to the stomach fundus wall, preventing the cardia from
   sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain
   the supporting pressure from the patient's abdomen that supports the patient's cardia
   sphincter muscle.
   A third abdominal method of treating a reflux disease in a patient includes implanting a
30 movement restriction device for the same purpose as previously disclosed methods and
   comprises the steps of surgically incising an opening in the patient's abdominal wall;
   dissecting an area of the patient's stomach; introducing the movement restriction device
   through the abdominal incision; and attaching the device to the stomach fundus wall,
   thereby preventing the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into
35 the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the supporting pressure from the patient's abdomen
   that supports the patient's cardia sphincter muscle. According to first alternative, the
   method includes placing the device on the outside of the stomach fundus wall; creating a

                                                   9
 5 pouch in the stomach fundus wall for the device; and in-vaginating the device in the pouch
   by providing sutures or staples to the stomach fundus wall, thereby preventing the cardia
   from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to
   maintain the supporting pressure from the patient's abdomen that supports the patient's
   cardia sphincter muscle. According to a second alternative, the method includes creating
10 a hole in the stomach fundus wall; introducing the movement restriction device through
   the hole and into the stomach; placing the device on the inside of the stomach fundus
   wall; creating a pouch on the stomach fundus wall for the device, and in-vaginating the
   device in the pouch by providing sutures or staples to the stomach fundus wall, preventing
   the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax,
15 so as to maintain the supporting pressure from the patient's abdomen that supports the
   patient's cardia sphincter muscle.
   The methods further comprise affixing the device to the stomach fundus wall by
   providing sutures or staples and/or affixing the stomach fundus wall to the lower part of
   the patient's esophagus by providing sutures or staples; and/or affixing the stomach
20 fundus wall to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles. The methods can
   further comprise the provision of an apparatus for regulating the reflux treatment device
   from the outside of the patient's body; and operating said apparatus to regulate the reflux
   treatment device. The regulation of the reflux treatment device can include changing the
   volume of the filling body when implanted. For this purpose, the methods can include the
25 provision of an injection type syringe comprising a fluid for injection into an implanted
   filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into filling body. Preferably, the methods
   comprise enclosing the device in the pouch. In one embodiment, the method admits the
   pouch being at least partly open, whereby the pouch can exhibit only one opening, or the
   pouch can exhibit two openings and to extend non-circumferentially around the stomach.
30 It is generally preferable that the volume of the pouch is more than 15 millilitres
   A further laparoscopic abdominal method of treating a reflux disease comprises inserting
   a needle or a tube like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body; using the needle
   or tube like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas; placing at least two
   laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body; inserting a camera through one of the
35 laparoscopic trocars into the patient's abdomen; inserting at least one dissecting tool
   through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars; dissecting an area of the stomach;
   creating a pouch from the stomach fundus wall for the device; closing the pouch by

                                                   10
 5 providing sutures and staples; introducing a injecting member comprising an injectable
   filling material; and injecting the filling material into the pouch, thereby creating a filling
   body that, fills a volume in the patient's abdomen that is close to and above the patient's
   cardia when the patient is ina standing position in order to prevent the cardia from sliding
   through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain
10 pressure in the patient's abdomen supporting the patient's cardia sphincter muscle.
   A further surgical abdominal method of treating a reflux disease comprises cutting an
   opening in the skin to enter the patients abdomen dissecting an area of the stomach;
   creating a pouch from the stomach fundus wall for the device; closing the pouch by
   providing sutures and staples; introducing a injecting member comprising an injectable
15 filling material; and injecting the filling material into the pouch, thereby creating a filling
   body that, fills a volume in the patient's abdomen that is close to and above the patient's
   cardia when the patient is in a standing position in order to prevent the cardia from sliding
   through the patient's diaphragm opening intothe patient's thorax, so as to maintain
   pressure in the patient's abdomen supporting the patient's cardia sphincter muscle.
20 The recited further methods can include creating the pouch on the outside of the stomach
   fundus wall, with the filling body placed against the inside of the stomach fundus wall, or
   alternatively, the methods include creating a hole in the stomach fundus wall and the
   pouch is created on the inside of the stomach fundus wall, with the filling body placed
   against the outside of the stomach fundus wall. The recited further methods preferably
25 also include affixing the stomach fundus wall to the lower part of the patient's esophagus
   by providing sutures or staples and/or affixing the stomach fundus wall to the patient's
   diaphragm muscle or associated muscles. It is also generally preferable that the volume of
   the pouch is more than 15 millilitres. The filling material is preferably capable of
   undergoing a curing process from fluid material to a semi-solid or solid material. Such a
30 curing process is preferably triggered by an increase in temperature from ambient
   temperature to body temperature. A suitable such material, well-known to persons skilled
   in the art, is a thermocurable polysiloxane which (in the presence of a crosslinker and a
   catalyst) can undergo a crosslinking reaction under the influence of heat.
   A still further laparoscopic abdominal method of treating a reflux disease in a patient by
35 implanting a movement restriction device that, when implanted in a patient, restricts the
   movement of the stomach notch in relation to the diaphragm muscle preventing the cardia

                                                   11
 5 to slide up through the diaphragm hiatus opening, comprises the steps of inserting a
   needle or a tube like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body; using the needle
   or tube like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas; placing at least two
   laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body; inserting a camera through one ofthe
   laparoscopic trocars into the patient's abdomen; inserting at least one dissecting tool
10 through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars; dissecting an area of the stomach;
   creating a hole in the stomach fundus wall; introducing a movement restriction device into
   the abdominal cavity; introducing the device through the hole and into the stomach;
   placing the device on the outside of the stomach fundus wall; fixating the device placed on
   the outside of the stomach fundus wall, and preventing the cardia from sliding through the
15 patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the supporting
   pressure from the patient's abdomen that supports the patient's cardia sphincter muscle.
   The method can further comprise the step of affixing the device to the stomach fundus
   wall by providing sutures or staples.
   The present invention also relates to a laparoscopic instrument for providing a movement
20 restriction device to be invaginated in the stomach fundus wall of a human patient to treat
   reflux disease, suitable for use with any of the mentioned laparoscopic methods. The
   instrument generally comprises an elongated member having a proximal end and a distal
   end, the elongated member having a diameter less than that of a laparoscopic trocar to be
   introduced into the patients abdomen during a laparoscopic operation; a stomach pushing
25 device for pushing the stomach fundus wall to create a tube like shaped portion of the
   stomach fundus wall protruding into the normal stomach cavity, said pushing device
   comprising the movementrestriction device to be invaginated by the stomach fundus wall
   in the tube like shaped portion thereof. The pushing device comprises a vacuum sucking
   device to suck the stomach fundus to assist the instrument in forming the tube like shaped
30 portion of the stomach fundus wall together with the pushing device. The vacuum sucking
   device comprises a vacuum passageway leading from the proximal to the distal end of the
   instrument and at the end portion of the instrument, which includes the pushing device.
   The vacuum passageway is divided up in multiple small openings adapted to suck the
   stomach wall portion to become adherent to the pushing device to further form the tube
35 like stomach wall portion. The instrument further comprises an insertion device adapted
   to introduce the movement restriction device into the tube like shaped stomach portion.
   The instrument can further comprise at least one clamping device for holding the opening

                                                  12
 5 of the tube like portion substantially closed by clamping together stomach to stomach in
   said opening, wherein the instrument is adapted to place the at least one clamping device
   at the opening in such a way that it allows later suturing of the opening. The instrument
   can further comprise an inflation device for inflating the movement restriction device
   before or after the suturing. The instrument can further comprise a suturing device
10 adapted to suture the opening of the tube like portion with stomach to stomach sutures for
   creating at least partly a closed space enclosing the movement restriction device, wherein
   the instrument is adapted to be withdrawn leaving the movement restriction device at
   least partly invaginated in the stomach fundus wall. The suturing device can comprise a
   first and second suture positioning member provided on the elongated member to be
15 located in the stomach at the distal end thereof. The instrument further comprises an
   operation device adapted to adjust the first and second suturing member in a position in
   which the first and second suture positioning members are in front of each other with the
   stomach wall on both sides of the open end of the cup like portion, and adapted to suture
   the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall with a row of stomach to stomach
20 sutures. The suturing device preferably comprises an operable reloadable multi-suturing
   device, which is reloadable with sutures from outside of the patient's body and which is
   adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall with said row of
   stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the row of sutures comprises two or more sutures or
   staples to be sutured simultaneously. The suturing device can also comprise multiple
25 sutures for suturing two or more sutures simultaneously.
   The present invention also relate an intraluminar method of treating a reflux disease in a
   patient by implanting a device comprising an implantable movement restriction device
   that, when implanted in a patient, restricts the movement of the stomach notch in relation
   to the diaphragm muscle preventing the cardia to slide up through the diaphragm hiatus
30 opening. The method comprises the steps of introducing a gastroscope in the esophagus
   and into the stomach of the patient; introducing an instrument in the esophagus and into
   the stomach of the patient, said instrument being integrated in said gastroscope or separate
   from the same; providing, by means of said of instrument, a pouch from the stomach
   fundus wall for accommodating the device and invaginating the device in the pouch with
35 sutures or stables to the stomach fundus wall, thereby preventing the cardia from sliding
   through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the
   supporting pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's

                                                     13
 5 abdomen. In a first alternative, the method comprises the steps of introducing the device
   into the stomach by means of the instrument; placing the device on the inside of the
   stomach fundus wall, using said instrument; creating, by means of said instrument, a
   pouch in a portion of the stomach fundus wall on the outside of the stomach cavity, the
   device placed resting against the inside of the stomach fundus wall; and invaginating the
10 device in the pouch by with sutures or stables to the stomach fundus wall. In a second
   alternative, the method comprises the steps of creating, by means of said instrument, a
   pouch of a portion of the stomach fundus wall; introducing the device by means of the
   instrument into the pouch; and
    10     invaginating the device with sutures or stables to the stomach fundus wall.
15 According to this alternative, the method comprises inflating the device to its filling
   volume, preferably by injecting a filling fluid into the device so it obtains its filling
   volume. The filling fluid can thereby be a curable fluid of the characteristics earlier
   describes, such as the aforedescribed thermocurable polysiloxanes. In a third alternative,
   the method comprises the steps of creating a hole in the stomach fundus wall; introducing
20 the device into the stomach by means of the instrument; moving the device through the
   hole and placing it on the outside of the stomach fundus wall; creating, by means of said
   instrument, a pouch of a portion of the stomach fundus wall on the inside of the stomach
   cavity, with the device placed against the outside of the stomach fundus wall; invaginating
   the device in the pouch with sutures or stables to the stomach fundus wall; and sealing the
25 hole with sutures or staples.. In a fourth alternative, the method comprises the steps of
   creating a hole in the stomach fundus wall; creating, by means of said instrument, a
   pouch of a portion of the stomach fundus wall on the inside of the stomach cavity;
   introducing the device into the stomach by means of the instrument; moving the device
   through the hole and placing it on the outside of the stomach fundus wall; introducing the
30 device by means of the instrument into the pouch; invaginating the device with sutures or
   stables to the stomach fundus wall; and sealing the hole with sutures or staples. Also this
   method can comprise inflating the device to its filling volume, preferablyby injecting a
   filling fluid into the device so it obtains its filling volume. The filling fluid can have all
   the previously described characteristics. The method also comprises affixing the device to
35 the stomach fundus wall by providing sutures or staples; and/or affixing the stomach
   fundus wall to the lower part of the patient's oesophagus by providing sutures or staples;
   and/or affixing the stomach fundus wall to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated

                                                   14
 5 muscles. The method can also comprise the provision of an apparatus for regulating the
   reflux treatment device from the outside of the patient's body; and operating said
   apparatus to regulate the reflux treatment device. Regulation of the reflux treatment
   device preferably includes changing the volume of the filling body when implanted. For
   this purpose, the method can comprise the provision of an injection type syringe
10 comprising a fluid for injection into an implanted filling body; and injecting volume of
   fluid into filling body. The filling fluid can be curable fluid of a nature as discussed in
   previous sections. The pouch created by the method can enclose the movement restriction
   device, or it can be at least partially open, in one example it has only one opening, and
   according to another example it exhibits two openings and extends non-circumferentially
15 around the stomach. Preferably, the volume of the pouch is more than 15 millilitres. It is
   generally preferably in the method that the gastroscope and the instrument are integrated.
   The method can further include inflating the stomach with gas. In a special embodiment
   of the method, the instrument generates vacuum when providing the pouch from the
   stomach fundus wall.
20 The invention also relates to a method of restoring the location of the cardia and the
   fundus in a patient suffering from a reflux disease comprising introducing an elongated
   instrument having at least one flexible part into oesophagus of a patient; activating a
   holding device by the instrument, said activated holding device having larger crossectional
   area than said instrument; holding the distal esophagus or stomach with said holding
25 device; moving and pushing the instrument in a distal direction so the cardia and the
   stomach wall, or part of fundus, incorrectly located above diaphragm, or its associated
   muscles, slide back in a position below the diaphragm, or its associated muscles. In a first
   alternative, the method comprises expanding the holding device radially above the cardia
   in the oesophagus and using the device to push the cardia and the stomach wall or part of
30 fundus below the diaphragm or its associated muscles. In a second alternative, the method
   comprises releasing a balloon member at the proximal end of the instrument in the lower
   part of the stomach, and using the member to push the instrument against a lower wall
   part of the stomach so the cardia and the fundus or part of fundus slide below the
   diaphragm or its associated muscles. In a third alternative, the method comprises locating
35 the distal end of the instrument at the level of the diaphragm or its associated muscles;
   expanding the member in radial direction; attaching the member to the stomach wall; and
   pushing the instrument in a distal direction so the cardia and the stomach wall or, part of

                                                  15
 5 fundus, slide below the diaphragm or its associated muscles. The method according to all
   recited alternatives can comprise the employment of an affixing member as part of the
   holding device in the distal part of the instrument capable providing sutures or stables or
   other invasive mechanical members for affixing the esophagus and stomach wall to the
   instrument, preferably, the method comprises the employment of a suturing member in the
10 distal part of the instrument capable providing sutures or stables for suturing the stomach
   fundus wall to the lower part of the esophagus above said cardia.
   The invention is also directed to a surgical gastroscopic instrument for treating a patient
   suffering from hiatal hernia, wherein a portion of the patient's stomach passes through the
   hiatus of the diaphragm muscle with the patient's cardia placed above the diaphragm
15 muscle in the thorax. The instrument comprises: (i) an elongated member having a
   proximal end and a distal end, said elongated member having a diameter less than that of
   the patient's esophagus and being flexible, thereby allowing introducing the flexible
   elongated member with its distal end first from the throat into the esophagus; (ii) a
   holding device secured to the elongated member and operable between an activated state,
20 in which it is adapted to engage and hold the patient's esophagus or stomach, and an
   inactivated state, in which it is adapted to be released from the esophagus or stomach; (iii)
   an operation device for operating the holding device to shift between said activated and
   inactivated states from outside the patient's body; and (iv) a handle connected to the
   elongated member at the proximal end thereof to be held manually for moving the
25 elongated member distally, wherein the holding device, when operated by the operation
   device in its activated state, is adapted to engage and hold the esophagus or stomach
   strong enough to allow the elongated member, when manually moved, to move and
   reintroduce the cardia back in the distal direction to a position below the diaphragm
   muscle. The operable holding device of the instrument is preferably adapted to radially
30 expand relative to the elongated member from said inactivated state to said activated
   state, such that said holding device, when radially expanded, engages and holds the
   stomach or esophagus by force and friction. Alternatively, the operable holding device
   comprises at least one introducing member adapted to invasively introduce into the wall
   of the stomach or esophagus to secure the holding device on the esophagus or the
35 stomach, when the holding device is in its activated state. In both alternatives, the operable
   holding device is adapted to engage and hold the esophagus proximal to the cardia or at
   the cardia, or to engage and hold the stomach at a position in the hiatus or distal thereto,

                                                  16
 5 when the cardia is above the diaphragm muscle. According to another alternative, the
   elongated member of the instrument comprises a first suture positioning member, which
   is situated in the esophagus when the holding device is in its activated state holding the
   esophagus or stomach, and a second suture positioning member at the distal end of the
   elongated member. The operation device of the instrument is adapted to bend the flexible
10 elongated member around the stomach notch into a position in which the first suture
   positioning member is above the cardia and the first and second suture positioning
   members are in front of each other with the fundus wall and esophagus wall moved
   together by the first and second suture positioning members. The instrument further
   comprises a reloadable multi-suturing device for suturing together the patient's esophagus
15 proximal to the cardia with the fundus stomach wall by a row of sutures, where the fundus
   wall and esophagus wall are moved together by the first and second suture positioning
   members, said row of sutures comprising two or more sutures to be sutured
   simultaneously by the multi- suturing device.
   The invention further comprises another embodiment of a surgical gastroscopic
20 instrument for treating a human patient suffering from hiatal hernia, This instrument
   comprises: (i) an elongated member having a proximal end and a distal end, said
   elongated member having a diameter less than that of the patient's esophagus and being
   flexible, thereby allowing introducing the flexible elongated member with its distal end
   first from the patient's throat into the esophagus; (ii) a first suture positioning member
25 provided on the elongated member such that it is situated in the esophagus proximal to the
   cardia when the elongated member has been introduced in the esophagus with the distal
   end of the elongated member situated in the stomach; (iii) a second suture positioning
   member provided on the elongated member at the distal end thereof; (iv) an operation
   device adapted to bend the flexible elongated member around the stomach notch into a
30 position in which the first and second suture positioning members are in front of each
   other with the fundus wall and esophagus wall moved together by the first and second
   suture positioning members; and (v) a re-loadable multi-suturing device for suturing
   together the patient's esophagus proximal to the cardia with the fundus stomach wall by a
   row of sutures, where the fundus wall and esophagus wall are moved together by the first
35 and second suture positioning members, the multi-suturing device being reloadable with
   sutures from outside the body to apply further rows of sutures in front or back of the first
   row of sutures, wherein said row of sutures comprises two or more sutures to be sutured

                                                   17
 5 simultaneously by the multi-suturing device. The instrument further comprises a holding
   device secured to the elongated member and operable between an activated state, in which
   it is adapted to engage and hold the patient's esophagus or stomach, and an inactivated
   state, in which it is adapted to be released from the esophagus or stomach. The holding
   device is operable by the operation device to shift between said activated and inactivated
10 states from outside the patient's body, and a handle connected to the elongated member at
   the proximal end thereof to be held manually for moving the elongated member distally,
   wherein the holding device, when operated by the operation device in said activated state,
   is adapted to engage and hold the esophagus or stomach strong enough to allow the
   elongated member, when manually moved, to move and reintroduce the cardia back in the
15 distal direction to a position below the diaphragm muscle. In one alternative, the operable
   holding device is adapted to radially expand relative to the elongated member from said
   inactivated state to said activated state, such that the holding device, when radially
   expanded, engages and holds the stomach or esophagus by force and friction. In another
   alternative, the operable holding device comprises at least one introducing member
20 adapted to invasively introduce into the wall of the stomach or esophagus to secure the
   holding device on the esophagus or the stomach, when the holding device is in its
   activated state. In both alternatives, the operable holding device is adapted to engage and
   hold the esophagus proximal to the cardia or at the cardia, or to engage and hold the
   stomach at a position in the hiatus or distal thereto, when the cardia is above the
25 diaphragm muscle.
   The invention further comprises still another embodiment of a surgical gastroscopic
   instrument for providing a movement restriction device to be invaginated in the stomach
   fundus wall of a human patient to treat reflux disease. The instrument comprises (i) an
   elongated member having a proximal end and a distal end, the elongated member having
30 a diameter less than that of the patient's esophagus and being flexible, thereby allowing
   introduction of the flexible elongated member with its distal end first through the patient's
   throat, esophagus and into the stomach to the fundus wall; (ii) an operable stomach
   penetration device provided the elongated member at the distal end thereof for
   penetrating the stomach fundus wall to create a hole in the stomach fundus wall, to allow
35 introduction of the elongated member through the hole; (iii) an operable special holding
   device provided on the elongated member proximal to the penetration device, when
   penetrating said stomach wall, to hold the elongated member in a position in which the

                                                  18
 5 elongated member extends through the stomach fundus wall and is prevented from
   moving through the hole in the proximal direction, wherein the special holding device
   includes an expandable member expandable at least radially substantially perpendicular to
   the elongated member to abut against the fundus wall on the outside thereof; and (iv) an
   insertion device for inserting the movement restriction device through the hole in the
10 stomach fundus wall to the outside thereof to be invaginated in the fundus wall. The
   instrument can further comprise a forming device provided on the elongated member
   proximal to the special holding device to abut against the fundus wall on the inside
   thereof. The forming device together with the special holding device is adapted to form
   the stomach fundus wall in a cup like shape, whereby the special holding device is
15 retractable relative to the forming device to pull the stomach wall against the forming
   device to form said cup like shaped portion of the stomach. The instrument can further
   comprise a suturing device adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the
   fundus wall with stomach to stomach sutures to create a space that is at least in part
   enclosed by a portion of the fundus wall. The suturing device preferably comprises
20 multiple sutures for suturing two or more sutures simultaneously. The suturing device is
   adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall before the
   movement restriction device is inserted by the insertion device through the hole of the
   fundus wall. The instrument can further comprise an inflation device for inflating the
   movement restriction device after being introduced by the insertion device through the
25 hole of the fundus wall, or for inflating the movement restriction device after being
   introduced by the movement restriction device introduced through the hole of the fundus
   wall. The suturing device can comprise an operable reloadable multi-suturing device,
   which is reloadable with sutures from outside the patient's body and which is adapted to
   suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall with a row of stomach to
30 stomach sutures, wherein the row of sutures comprises two or more sutures or staples to
   be sutured simultaneously. In another alternative, the instrument comprises an inflatable
   movement restriction device, the penetration device comprises a wire adapted to be
   introduced through the hole in the stomach fundus wall and to be advanced at least up to
   the abdominal wall or be passed therethrough. The wire serves as a guide for a hydraulic
35 tube, which is connected to the inflatable movement restriction device and which is
   connectable to an injection port to be placed subcutaneously for filling the inflatable
   movement restriction device with a fluid and adjusting the amount thereof, when the
   movement restriction device has been inserted by the insertion device through the hole of

                                                   19
 5 the fundus wall.
   The invention further comprises still yet another embodiment of a surgical gastroscopic
   instrument for providing an inflatable movement restriction device to be invaginated in
   the stomach fundus wall of a human patient to treat reflux disease.
   The instrument comprises: (i) an elongated member having a proximal end and a distal
10 end, the elongated member having a diameter less than that of the patient's esophagus and
   being flexible, thereby allowing introduction of the flexible elongated member with its
   distal end first through the patient's throat, esophagus and into the stomach to the fundus
   wall; and (ii) an operable stomach penetration device provided on the elongated member
   at the distal en thereof for penetrating the stomach fundus wall to create a hole in the
15 stomach fundus wall, to allow introduction of the elongated member through the hole,
   wherein the penetration device includes a wire to be introduced through the hole in the
   stomach fundus wall and to be advanced at least up to the abdominal wall or be passed
   therethrough, said wire serving as a guide for a hydraulic tube, which is connected to the
   inflatable movement restriction device and which is connectable to an injection port to be
20 placed subcutaneously for filling the inflatable movement restriction device with a fluid
   and adjusting the amount thereof, and wherein at least one of the wire and tube can be
   pulled to move the movement restriction device inflated with fluid towards the fundus
   stomach wall to be placed on the inside of the stomach fundus wall where the movement
   restriction device is to be invaginated in the fundus wall. Preferably, at least one of the
25 wire and tube when pulled to move the inflated movement restriction device towards the
   fundus stomach wall allow a portion of the stomach fundus wall to move to form a cup
   like shaped portion of the stomach protruding out from the normal stomach cavity. The
   instrument can further comprise an operable forming device having a cup like shape for
   forming the cup like shaped portion of the stomach. The instrument can further comprise
30 a suturing device adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall
   with stomach to stomach sutures to create a space that is at least in part enclosed by a
   portion of the fundus wall. The suturing device can comprises multiple sutures for
   suturing two or more sutures simultaneously. The suturing device can be adapted to
   suture the open end ofthe cup like portion of the fundus wall before the movement
35 restriction device is inserted through the hole of the fundus wall. The movement
   restriction device, preferably is inflatable, further comprising an inflation device for
   inflating the movement restriction device after being introduced through the hole of the

                                                  20
 5 fundus wall. The instrument can further comprise a first and second suture positioning
   member provided on the elongated member situated in the stomach at the distal end
   thereof, and an operation device adapted to adjust the first and second suturing member in
   a position in which the first and second suture positioning members are in front of each
   other with the stomach wall on both sides of the open end of the cup like portion, and
10 adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall with a row of
   stomach to stomach sutures. The suturing device can comprise an operable re- loadable
   multi-suturing device, which is reloadable with sutures from outside the patient's body
   and which is adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall with
   said row of stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the row of sutures comprises two or
15 more sutures or staples to be sutured simultaneously.
   The invention further comprises still yet another embodiment of a surgical gastroscopic
   instrument providing a movement restriction device to be invaginated in the stomach
   fundus wall of a human patient to treat reflux disease. The instrument comprising: (i) an
   elongated member having a proximal end and a distal end, the elongated member having
20 a diameter less than that of the patient's esophagus and being flexible such that
   introduction of the flexible elongated member with its distal end first through the patient's
   throat, esophagus and into the stomach to the fundus wall is allowed; (ii) an operable
   stomach pushing device for pushing the stomach fundus wall to create a cup like shaped
   portion of the stomach fundus wall protruding out from the normal stomach cavity, said
25 pushing device including the movement restriction device to be invaginated by the
   stomach fundus wall in the cup like shaped portion thereof; and (iii) a suturing device
   adapted to suture the opening of the cup like shaped portion of the stomach fundus wall
   with stomach to stomach sutures to enclose at least in part the movement restriction
   device. The instrument further can comprise a forming device provided on the elongated
30 member proximal to the pushing device to pull the fundus wall on the inside thereof. The
   forming device together with the pushing device is adapted to form the stomach fundus
   wall in an optimal cup like shape, wherein the pushing device is pushed to form said cup
   like shaped portion of the stomach. The instrument can further comprise first and second
   suture positioning member provided on the elongated member situated in the stomach at
35 the distal end thereof; and an operation device adapted to adjust the first and second
   suturing member in a position in which said first andsecond suture positioning members
   are in front of each other with the stomach wall on both sides of the open end of the cup

                                                   21
 5 like portion, and adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the fundus wall
   with a row of stomach to stomach sutures. The suturing device can comprise an operable
   re-loadable multi-suturing device, which is reloadable with sutures from outside the
   patient's body and which is adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the
   fundus wall with said row of stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the row of sutures
10 comprises two or more sutures or staples to be sutured simultaneously. The suturing
   device can also comprise multiple sutures for suturing two or more sutures
   simultaneously. The instrument can further comprise an inflating device for inflating the
   movement restriction device after the suturing. The forming device can preferably
   comprise a vacuum sucking device to suck the stomach fundus to help the instrument to
15 form the cup like shaped portion of the stomach fundus wall together with the pushing
   device. The embodied gastroscopic instruments as described in previous section can
   comprise an optical device for examining the inside the esophagus or the stomach. For
   this purpose, the instruments can further comprise electrical wires extending along the
   elongated member, and the optical device comprises a camera placed distally on the
20 elongated member and connected to the wires, which lead out from the patient's body for
   external exposure of images from the camera. The instruments can further comprise a
   light source placed distally on the elongated member for illuminating the inside of the
   esophagus or stomach. The optical device can suitably comprise optical fibers placed
   along the elongated member and leading out from the patient's body for external
25 examination of the inside of the esophagus or stomach. The present invention further
   relates to an apparatus for treating a reflux disease and obesity. This apparatus comprises a
   movement restriction device and the fixation devices, adjustment device, wireless remote
   control function, wireless energy transmitter and further features as described earlier with
   an apparatus for treating a reflux disease. In addition the apparatus for combined
30 treatment of a reflux disease comprises at least one operable stretching device that, when
   implanted in the patient, stretches a part of the patient's stomach wall, to thereby treat
   obesity by affecting the patient's appetite; and an operation device for operating the
   stretching device when implanted to stretch the stomach wall portion such that satiety is
   created. The stretching device may be kept in contact with the stomach wall by stomach
35 to- stomach sutures or staplers, in a position in which the stretching device is capable of
   stretching the stomach wall. Specifically, the stretching device may be invaginated by the
   stomach wall by means of stomach-to-stomach sutures or staplers. The stretching device
   may be adapted to be placed in the stomach cavity. To this end, the stretching device may

                                                  22
 5 be adapted to be inserted into the stomach cavity via a gastroscope or intraluminar
   instrument, and be adapted to be attached to the stomach wall by surgery. Alternatively,
   the stretching device may be adapted to be placed on the outside of the stomach. In an
   embodiment, the stretching device comprises a first engaging member adapted to engage
   a first part of the stomach wall and a second engaging member adapted to engage a
10 second part of the stomach wall close to but spaced from the first stomach part. The
   operation device is adapted to operate the first and second engaging member to move
   away from each other to stretch the stomach wall portion between the first and second
   parts of the stomach such that satiety is created. At least one of the first and second
   engaging members may be adapted to at least in part be invaginated by the stomach wall
15 by stomach-to-stomach sutures or staplers holding the engaging member in place. In
   addition, at least one of the first and second engaging members may be adapted to be kept
   in place by sutures or staplers between the engaging member and the stomach wall.
   Suitably, at least one of the first and second engaging members comprises a tissue growth
   promoting structure, preferably a net like structure, adapted to be in contact with the
20 stomach wall to secure long term attachment of the stretching device to the stomach wall.
   In another embodiment, the stretching device comprises at least one expandable body
   adapted to be invaginated by a portion of the patient's stomach wall, and the operation
   device comprises a fluid reservoir, which is in fluid communication with a chamber of the
   body. The operation device is non-invasively operable to distribute fluid from the fluid
25 reservoir to the chamber of the body to expand the body such that the stomach wall
   portion is stretched, when the body is invaginated. The fluid reservoir may be operated by
   manually pressing it. The operation device may comprise a reverse servo, wherein a small
   volume of fluid in the fluid reservoir is compressed with a higher force and the chamber
   of the body creates a movement of a larger total volume with less force per unit of volume.
30 The fluid reservoir may be placed subcutaneously or in the abdomen, and may be
   regulated by moving a wall of the reservoir, for example by a motor. Alternatively, a
   pump may be provided for pumping fluid or air from the reservoir to the body's chamber.
   The term "reversed servo means" encompasses the definition of an device that is
   controlled with a higher force and a small stroke i.e. for example movement of a small
35 amount of fluid with a high force controls a larger amount of fluid moving by means of
   very smaller force, but may alternatively or additionally encompass the definition of a
   mechanism that transfers a strong force acting on a moving element having a short stroke
   into a small force acting on another moving element having a long stroke. The reversed

                                                  23
 5 servo means is preferably used when manual control of the device through intact skin is
   possible. In another embodiment the apparatus for treating a reflux disease and obesity
   comprises a large chamber in contact with one or more smaller chambers.
   The chambers are adapted to communicate with fluid or air being distributed between the
   chambers. A reversed servo for distributing fluid between the chambers may be provided,
10 wherein a small volume of fluid in the large chamber is compressed with a higher force
   and the smaller chamber creates a movement of a larger total volume with less force per
   unit of volume. The large chamber may be adapted to be invaginated in the patient's
   fundus stomach wall to also treat reflux disease by restricting movement of the cardiac
   notch towards the diaphragm muscle of the patient, whereas the small chambers function
15 as stretching devices to treat obesity. The large chamber may distribute fluid or air to the
   small chambers to cause them to expand and stretch the stomach fundus wall. In another
   embodiment, the stretching device comprises a mechanical stretching device, wherein a
   motor for mechanically regulating the stretching device may be provided. The
   mechanically regulated stretching device may be adapted to engage a first part of the
20 stomach wall and a second part of the stomach, wherein the mechanically regulated
   stretching device comprises a joint mechanism adapted to be moved by the operation
   device. Alternatively, the stretching device may comprise a first engaging member
   adapted to engage a first part of the stomach wall and a second engaging member adapted
   to engage a second part of the stomach wall close to but spaced from the first stomach part,
25 wherein the mechanical stretching device regulates the distance between the first and
   second parts of the stomach wall. As an alternative, the hydraulic means described above
   may be used for regulating such a mechanical stretching device by the hydraulic
   distribution of fluid or air. The stretching device may be non-invasively adjustable
   postoperatively. The operation device for operating the stretching device may in its
30 simplest form comprise a subcutaneous switch adapted to be non-invasively operated by
   manually pressing the switch for the operation ofthe stretching device. At least two
   operable stretching devices adapted to stretch at least two different portions of the
   stomach wall may be provided, wherein the apparatus is adapted to be postoperatively and
   non-invasively regulated. Specifically, the apparatus may be regulated from time to time
35 such that at a first time one of the stretching devices stretches one of the portions of the
   stomach wall and at a second time the other of the stretching devices stretches the other
   portion of the stomach wall. In another embodiment, the stretching device comprises a

                                                 24
 5 body adapted to fill out a volume defined by wall portions of the stomach. The body
   suitably has rounded contours without too sharp edges that would be damaging to the
   patient's stomach wall. Where the body is to be invaginated it may have varying
   circumference to better be kept in place invaginated by stomach wall portions ofthe
   patient. The body may be shaped like an egg or like a kidney. Generally, any kind of
10 mechanical construction may be used. Any mechanical construction driven mechanically
   or hydraulically or any pneumatic construction may be used. Any motor or any pump or
   moving material changing form when powered may be used to achieve the simple goal of
   stretching a part of the stomach wall by moving at least two part s of the stomach wall
   away from each other. Any kind of hydraulic operation may be used. It will be appreciated
15 that instead of hydraulic operation; pneumatic operation can be used, wherein air instead
   of hydraulic fluid is moved between a reservoir and a chamber formed by the stretching
   device. Preferably the reservoir has a locking position to keep it in the desired position if
   it is handled by the patient. To compress the reservoir it preferably stays compressed and
   releases after pressing again. Any kind of hydraulic solution may be used for the
20 stretching device. The hydraulic solution may be driven by both mechanically and
   powered with any motor or pump as well as manual. Of course, just expanding an in
   vaginated part of the stomach also stretches away the stomach wall which also may be
   achieved both mechanically, hydraulically, pneumatically and both being powered with a
   motor or pump or by manual force.
25 The present invention also provides a system for a combined treatment of a reflux disease
   and obesity treatment system comprising an apparatus for treating obesity as described
   above. The system may comprise a subcutaneous electric switch adapted to manually and
   non-invasively control a function of the apparatus for treating obesity.
   The system may comprise a hydraulic device having a hydraulic reservoir, wherein the
30 apparatus for treating obesity is adapted to non-invasively be regulated by manually
   pressing the hydraulic reservoir. The system may comprise awireless remote control for
   controlling a function of the apparatus. The wireless remote control comprises at least one
   external signal transmitter and an internal signal receiver may be provided to be implanted
   in the patient. The wireless remote control is adapted to transmit at least one wireless
35 control signal for controlling the apparatus. The wireless control signal may comprise a
   frequency, amplitude, or phase modulated signal or a combination thereof, and an
   analogue or a digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal.

                                                  25
 5 Alternatively, the wireless control signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or a
   combined electric and magnetic field. The remote control may transmit a carrier signal for
   carrying the wireless control signal. The carrier signal may comprise digital, analogue or a
   combination of digital and analog signals. The remote control may transmit an
   electromagnetic carrier wave signal for carrying the digital or analog control signal. The
10 system may comprise a wireless energy transmitter for non-invasively energizing the
   apparatus with wireless energy. The energy transmitter transmits energy by at least one
   wireless energy signal. The wireless energy signal may comprise a wave signal selected
   from the following: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an electromagnetic
   wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra violet light signal, a
15 laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x- ray radiation signal and a
   gamma radiation signal. Alternatively, the wireless energy signal comprises an electric or
   magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic field. The wireless energy transmitter
   may transmit a carrier signal for carrying the wireless energy signal. The carrier signal
   may comprise digital, analogue or a combination of digital and analog signals. The
20 system may comprise an energy- transforming device for transforming the wireless
   energy from a first form into a second form energy. The energy-transforming device may
   directly during energy transfer operate the apparatus with the second form energy. The
   second form energy may comprise a direct current or pulsating direct current, or a
   combination of a direct current and pulsating direct current. The second form energy may
25 comprise an alternating current or a combination of a direct and alternating current. An
   accumulator may be provided, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly to
   charge the accumulator. The energy of the first or second form may comprise magnetic
   energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy, radiant energy, electromagnetic
   energy, photo energy, nuclear energy or thermal energy. One of the energy of the first
30 form and the energy of the second form may be non-magnetic, non-kinetic, non-chemical,
   non-sonic, non-nuclear or non-thermal. The system may comprise an energy source
   adapted to power the apparatus. The energy source may comprise an internal energy
   source adapted to receive energy from an external energy source transmitting energy in a
   wireless mode. The internal energy source is charged by the energy in the wireless mode.
35 The system may comprise a feedback device for sending information from inside the
   patient's body to the outside thereof to give feedback information related to a functional
   parameter. The system may comprise a sensor sensing a parameter, such as a functional

                                                 26
 5 parameter of the system, which is correlated to the transfer of energy for charging an
   internal energy source. An internal control unit may be provided for controlling the
   operation device of the apparatus in response to the sensor sensing a functional
   parameter. Alternatively, sensor senses a physical parameter of the patient.
   The physical parameter may be one of body temperature, blood pressure, blood flow,
10 heartbeats and breathing. The physical parameter sensor may be a pressure or motility
   sensor, or a sensor sensing measure, bending, stretching or food intake. The internal
   control unit may control the operation device in response to the sensor sensing the
   physical parameter. An internal control unit may be provided for receiving information
   from the sensor. The operation device of the apparatus may comprise a motor or a pump.
15 Specifically, the operation device may comprise an electric motor. The operation device
   may be electrically powered, may be a hydraulic operation device or may be a pneumatic
   operation device. The transmitted energy, directly in its wireless form may affect the
   operation device to create kinetic energy to operate the stretching device of the apparatus
   during energy transfer. The system may comprise a feedback device for sending
20 information from inside the patient's body to the outside thereof to give feedback
   information related to a functional parameter. The system may comprise an external data
   communicator and an implantable internal data communicator communicating with the
   external data communicator, wherein the internal communicator is adapted to feed data
   related to the apparatus for treating obesity or the patient back to the external data
25 communicator or the external data communicator feeds data to the internal data
   communicator. The system may comprise implantable electrical components including at
   least one voltage level guard and/or at least one constant current guard.
   The present invention also provides methods of treating a patient suffering from both a
   reflux disease and obesity. The methods can be performed together with or in conjunction
30 with earlier described abdominal or intraluminar methods of treating a reflux disease. The
   invention provides methods listed below:
   a)         A method for surgically treating an obese patient, the method comprising the
   steps of:
   cutting an opening in the abdominal wall of the patient,
35 dissecting an area around the stomach,
   placing an apparatus for treating obesity as described above, engaging the stomach wall

                                                  27
 5 of the patient, and
   suturing the stomach wall.
   The method may further comprise the additional step of:
   postoperatively regulating the stretching device to stretch a part of the stomach wall to
   affect the appetite of the patient, wherein the step of regulating the stretching device is
10 controlled from outside the patient's body.
   The method may further comprise the additional steps of:
   placing an additional apparatus for treating obesity as described above, engaging the
   stomach wall of the patient,
   stretching a first part of the stomach wall by means of the apparatus for treating obesity,
15 and
   stretching a second part of the stomach wall by means of the additional apparatus for
   treating obesity.
   b) A method for surgically placing an apparatus for treating obesity in a patient via a
   laparoscopic abdominal approach, the method comprising the steps of:
20 inserting a needle or a tube like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body, using
   the needle or a tube like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas thereby
   expanding the patient's abdominal cavity,
   placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body, inserting a camera through
   one of the laparoscopic trocars into the patient's abdomen,
25 inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of the at least two laparoscopic trocars
   and dissecting an intended placement area of the patient, and placing an apparatus for
   treating obesity as described above, engaging the stomach wall.
   c)     A method of using the system for treating obesity as described above, comprising
   the step of regulating the stretching device postoperatively to stretch a portion of the
30 stomach wall to affect the appetite of the patient, wherein the step of regulating the
   stretching device is performed non-invasively. The stretching device comprises a
   mechanical or hydraulic stretching device. The hydraulic stretching device may comprise
   a reservoir, for moving gel or gas or fluid to or from the stretching device. The reservoir
   may be placed subcutaneously for being reached by the patients hand for moving fluid
35 manually to or from the stretching device. The stretching device may be powered by an

                                                 28
 5 internal energy source for stretching or releasing the stretching device, wherein by means
   of a control device controlling the power from an internal control unit or from the outside
   the patient's body. A wireless energy transmitter for wireless transfer of energy powers
   the operation device to get the stretching device to directly during energy transfer cause
   the stretching device to stretch the stomach wall. A wireless energy transmitter for
10 wireless transfer of energy charges the internal energy source. A reversed servo may be
   provided, wherein moving, in a closed hydraulic system, a small amount of fluid, a larger
   movement of fluid is achieved in a second larger closed hydraulic system, wherein the
   small amount of fluid is moved with by a higher force per area unit than the large
   volume. An invaginated stretching device in the fundus stomach wall of the patient is
15 adapted to be adjustable, wherein the stretching device placed invaginated in the stomach
   fundus wall is adapted to be adjusted and stretching the stomach fundus wall thereby
   creating satiety.
   The method may further comprise sending feedback information from inside the body to
   the outside thereof to give feedback related to the functional parameters of the device.
20 Alternatively, the method may further comprise sending feedback information from
   inside the body to the outside thereof to give feedback related to the physical parameters
   of the patient. The functional parameter of the device may be correlated to the transfer of
   energy for charging the internal energy source. The device is programmable from outside
   the patient's body.
25 The method may further comprise the steps of:
   sensing a physical parameter of the patient or a functional parameter of the device,
   and
   sending sensing information to a control unit adapted for regulating the stretching device.
   The method may further comprise the steps of:
30 sensing a physical parameter of the patient or a functional parameter of the device,
   and
   sending sensing information to a control unit adapted for regulating the charging of the
   internal energy source.
   The method may further comprise subcutaneously placing a reversed servo having a
35 small control reservoir and moving a small volume from the control reservoir with a

                                                  29
 5 higher force per area unit, creating a larger movement of the stretching device with less
   force per area unit.
   The method may further comprise performing the non-invasive regulation by manually
   pressing a subcutaneous switch.
   The method may further comprise performing the non-invasive regulation by a wireless
10 remote control.
   The method may further comprise performing the non-invasive regulation by a wireless
   energy transmitter.
   The method may further comprise powering the apparatus for treating obesity by an
   internal energy source.
15 The method may further comprise powering the apparatus for treating obesity by an
   external energy source transmitting wireless energy, wherein the energy source comprises
   an external energy source transmitting wireless energy.
   The method may further comprise transmitting wireless energy from an external energy
   source to charge a rechargeable internal energy source.
20 d)      A method of using an apparatus as described above, wherein the stretching device
   comprises a main body including a large chamber in contact with one or more smaller
   reservoirs/chambers adapted to stretch the stomach wall, wherein the chambers are
   adapted to communicate with fluid or air being moved between the chambers.
   e)         A method of using an apparatus as described above, wherein the large chamber
25 are adapted to, with its main volume to be the stretching device's most important volume
   and wherein, the small chambers are as the stretching devices stretching the stomach wall
   to treat obesity, wherein the main chamber is communicating with fluid or gel to the small
   chambers causing the stretching effect in the stomach fundus wall thereby treating
   obesity.
30 f) A method of using an apparatus as described above, comprising treating reflux disease
   by invaginating the large chamber with its main volume in the fundus stomach wall
   thereby restricting movement of the stomach notch towards the diaphragm muscle of the
   patient, and stretching the stomach fundus wall using the small chambers, communicating

                                                  30
 5 with fluid or air from the large chamber to the small chambers causing a stretching effect
   in the stomach fundus wall thereby treating obesity.
   In another aspect, the invention relates an apparatus to treat a reflux device and/or obesity
   of a patient having a stomach with a food cavity. The apparatus generally comprises at
   least one volume filling device adapted to be at least substantially invaginated by a
10 stomach wall portion of the patient, wherein the volume filling device is adapted to be
   placed on the outside of the stomach wall, so that the volume of the food cavity is
   reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling
   device, wherein the surface of the volume filling device comprises a biocompatible
   material, wherein a substantial part of the surface of the volume filling device is adapted
15 to rest against the outside of the stomach wall, and wherein the volume filling device has
   a maximum circumference of at least 30 millimeters. The apparatus preferably comprises
   a volume filling device comprising an inflatable device expandable to an expanded state.
   The inflatable device, preferably has an inlet port for a fluid or a gel and is adapted to be
   connected to a gastroscopic instrument. The inlet port preferably comprises a fluid
20 connection adapted to interconnect the volume filling device and the gastroscopic
   instrument. The volume filling device has an elongated shape. Alternatively, the volume
   filling device has a rounded shape, or a bent or curved shape. The volume filling device,
   preferably comprises an elasticmaterial. The volume filling device, preferably comprises
   a bio-compatible material. Preferably, the volume filling device comprises silicone. The
25 volume filling device can be provided with a coating of one or multiple layers, such as a
   Parylene coating, a polytetrafluoroethylene coating, or a polyurethane coating. The
   volume filling device comprises a fluid that is adapted to be transformed into solid state
   or fixed form. In one example the fluid is liquid polyurethane. In another example, the
   fluid is isotonic. In another example, the fluid comprises large molecules to prevent
30 diffusion. In another example, the fluid comprises iodine molecules. The volume filling
   device comprises a homogenous material. The volume filling device can be a solid body, it
   can comprise an enclosure wall defining a chamber, it can comprise a rigid outer surface,
   it can comprise an elastic outer surface, and it can comprise a flexible outer surface. The
   volume filling device preferably has a maximum circumference of at least 50 millimeters,
35 more preferably a circumference of at least 80 millimeters. The volume filling device,
   preferably has a volume of between 0.00001 and 0.001 mi3 , more preferably a volume of
   between 0.00001 and 0.0002 m3. Preferably, the volume filling deviceis 30 deformable

                                                  31
 5 to a maximum diameter, so as to be inserted into a laparoscopic trocar. The volume filling
   device is adapted to be kept in place by stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples to
   invaginate the device in the stomach wall. The stomach-to stomach sutures or staples are
   provided with fixation portions exhibiting a structure adapted to be in contact with the
   stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure the long term placement of
10 the volume filling device attached to the stomach wall. The structure preferably
   comprises a net like structure. The volume filling device is adapted to be non-invasively
   adjustable postoperatively. In one embodiment, the volume filling device has varying
   circumference to be better adapted to be kept in place invaginated in the stomach wall of
   the patient. The apparatus according to can further comprise a stretching device placed
15 outside the stomach wall and adapted to stretch a part of the stomach wall, thereby
   affecting the patient's appetite, the apparatus further comprising a fluid connection
   interconnecting the stretching device and the volume filling device. In one embodiment,
   the volume filling device is adapted to be placed outside the stomach wall via a
   gastroscopic instrument. In one embodiment, the volume filling device comprises at least
20 two interconnectable portions, and wherein thevolume filling device is adapted to be
   placed outside the stomach wall as separate portions. In one embodiment, an outer
   surface layer of the volume filling device comprises polyurethane, Teflon@, or PTFE, or
   a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the volume filling device is adapted to be
   destroyed by acid, preferably hydrochloric acid. In one embodiment, the volume filling
25 device comprises gel, preferably, the gel has a shore value of less than 15. In one
   embodiment, the volume filling device comprises an attachment device adapted to co
   operate with a gripping instrument. In one embodiment, the volume filling device is
   adapted to be completely invaginated by the stomach wall of the patient. The apparatus
   can further comprise a fixating device adapted to fixate the food intake reducing device to
30 the stomach wall to keep the volume filling device in place, when the volume filling
   device is implanted. The volume filling device has a volume of less than 0.0002 mi3 ,
   preferably, a volume of between 0.0001 and 0.001 mi3 . In one embodiment, the volume
   filling device is adapted to be un-destroyed by acid, preferably hydrochloric acid.
   Preferably, the volume filling device has a circumference of at least 120 mm, more
35 preferably, of at least 150 mm, still more preferably of at least 180 mm, and even more
   preferably, a circumference of at least 220 mm. The volume filling device, preferably
   comprises a flexible non-elastic material. The apparatus preferably comprises a volume
   filling device which comprises a fixation device adapted to be involved in the fixation of the

                                                      32
 5 device to the stomach wall. In one embodiment, the volume filling device comprises two or
   more fixation devices adapted to be involved in the fixation of the device to the stomach wall.
   In one embodiment, the volume filling device comprises a holding device adapted to be able
   to be held by an instrument and simplify the implantation of the device. In one embodiment,
   the volume filling device comprises two or more holding devices adapted to be able to be held
10 by an instrument and simplify the implantation of the device. In one embodiment, the volume
   filling device comprises at least one tube connected to the device. In one embodiment, the
   volume filling device comprises an injection port for connecting to said tube.
   The so described apparatus to treat a reflux device and/or obesity of a patient comprising at
   least one volume filling device can be combined with any feature disclosed in previous
15 sections, such as, but not limited to the stretch cardia stimulation devices. It is also conceived
   that the so described apparatus to treat a reflux device and/or obesity of a patient comprising
   at least one volume filling device can be implanted by generally employing the abdominal or
   intraluminar methods as outlined in previous sections of this document and that suitable
   features of the earlier described movement restriction device can be employed with the
20 volume filling device.
   It should be noted that any embodiment or part of embodiment or feature or method or
   associated system or part of system described herein may be combined in any combination.
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or
   variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
25 stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
   integers.
   Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
   incorporated herein in their entirely by reference, which means that it should be read and
   considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent application,
30 or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness.
   Reference to cited material or information contained in the text should not be understood as a
   concession that the material or information was part of the common general knowledge or was
   known in Australia or any other country.

                                                  33
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The present invention will now be described in more detail by way of non-limiting examples,
   and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figs. IA-Care schematic views of
   various embodiments of an apparatus for treating Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease implanted
   in a human patient.
10 Figs. 2A-B are schematic views of various embodiments of an apparatus for treating
   Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease implanted in a human patient.
   Figs. 3A-B are schematic views of various embodiment of an apparatus for treating
   Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease implanted in a human patient.
   Figs. 4A-D are schematic views of embodiments of an apparatus for treating Gastro
15 esophageal Reflux Disease and obesity implanted in a human patient.
   Fig. 5 is a schematic view of an embodiment of an apparatus for treating Gastro
   esophageal Reflux Disease implanted in a human patient.
   Figs. 6A-D and 7-9 show alternative shapes of a movement restriction device for treating
   Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease adapted to be implanted in a human patient.
20 Fig. 10 is an overall view of a patient with an implanted movement restriction device for
   treating Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease.
   Figs. 11 - 27 are schematic views of various ways of powering an apparatus for treating
   Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease.
   Figs. 28 - 34 are schematic views of various ways of arranging the hydraulic or
25 pneumatic powering of an apparatus of the invention for treating Gastroesophageal Reflux
   Disease.
   Fig. 35 is a flowchart illustrating steps performed when implanting a movement
   restriction device for treating Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease.
   Figs 36-41 shows methods for restoring the location of the cardia and the fundus in a
30 patient suffering from reflux disease.
   Figs. 42-46 show different shapes and features of a reflux treatment device comprised in

                                                   34
 5 an apparatus according to the invention,
   Figs. 47a-d show a deflated inflatable reflux treatment device comprised in an apparatus
   according to the invention and an instrument for placing the reflux treatment device on
   the outside of the stomach wall of thepatient.
   Figs. 48a-i illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 47a on the
10 outside of a stomach wall of a patient,
   Fig. 49 shows an embodiment wherein the reflux treatment apparatus is also adapted to
   treat obesity.
   Figs. 50-51 show an embodiment wherein the reflux treatment apparatus adapted also for
   treating obesity
15 Figs. 52a-h illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 47a on
   the inside of a stomach wall of a patient,
   Figs 53 a-c show an instrument for creating an invagination of the wall of the stomach.
   Figs 54-55 show an abdominal method for treating reflux disease.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
20 Fig. IA is a schematic view depicting an apparatus 11, including a movement restriction
   device 10 of a biocompatible material, for treating reflux disease, in accordance with the
   invention, implanted in a human patient. In Fig. IA, the device 10 is invaginated in the
   fundus. The device 10 comprises a body 13 having an outer surface 15 suitable for resting
   against a portion of the outside wall 16a of the stomach fundus wall 16 in a position
25 between the patient's diaphragm 18 and at least 20 a portion of the lower part of the
   invaginated stomach fundus wall 16. Thus, with the device 10 invaginated in this fashion,
   movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is
   restricted, thereby the cardia is prevented from sliding through the patient's diaphragm
   opening into the patient's thorax 20 and the supporting pressure against the patient's
30 cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen is maintained
   The body 13 is inflatable and adapted to be inflated with a gel or fluid. A fluid or gel
   receiving member for receiving fluid to inflate said movement restriction device may be

                                                  35
 5 provided. Alternatively, the body 13 includes a homogenous material and be a solid body.
   Alternatively, the body 13 includes an outer wall in the form of an enclosure wall
   defining a chamber. The outer wall may be rigid, elastic or flexible. Where the outer wall
   is rigid, it is rigid enough to maintain non-deformed when subject to forces created by
   stomach movements.
10 The body 13 of the movement restriction device 10 can be affixed to the wall 16a of the
   fundus 16 in a number of different ways. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 1A, the device
    10 is invaginated in the fundus stomach wall from outside the stomach.
   After invagination, a first fixation device consisting of a number of stomach-to stomach
   sutures or staples 22a is applied to keep the invagination in tact in the short term. This
15 allows the growth of human tissue to keep the invagination intact over the long term.
   There may optionally be a second fixation device consisting of a number of sutures or
   staples 22b that are provided between the wall 16a of the fundus 16 and the wall 24a of
   the oesophagus 24 to hold the device 10 in said position between the patient's diaphragm
    18 and at least a portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach fundus wall 16a.
20 Thus, the device 10 is affixed in this position by this second fixation apparatus. A direct or
   indirect affixation of the device 10 to the diaphragm muscle 18 or associated muscles
   may be provided. As an alternative, a direct or indirect affixation of the device 10 to the
   oesophagus His can be provided. Alternatively, or additionally, there may be a third
   fixation device in the form of sutures or staples 22c provided between the wall 16a of the
25 fundus 16 and the diaphragm 18 to hold the device 10 in said position.
   Figure lB shows an embodiment substantially similar to the one shown in Figure        IA.In
   figure 1 B the body 13 and invagination are, in addition to the affixation 22, fixed by
   means of sutures and/or staples 22c between the reflux body 13 and the diaphragm 18, to
   hold the device in position above the cardia 14.
30 Figure 1C shows another embodiment substantially similar to the one shown in figure IA.
   In figure IC the reflux treatment device is held in place by stomach-to stomach sutures or
   staplers 22a that connects the wall 16a of the fundus 16 to the wall 16a of the fundus 16.
   In addition the reflux treatment device 10 is held in place by sutures 22b or staplers from
   the wall 16 of the fundus 16a to the wall of the esophagus 24a, and by sutures or staples
35 from the wall of the fundus 16a to the diaphragm.

                                                  36
 5 An alternative embodiment of an apparatus 17 for the treatment of reflux disease in
   accordance with the invention is depicted in Fig. 2A. This embodiment is, in many
   aspects, similar to the one described above with reference to Fig. lA-C. Thus, a
   movement restriction device 10 is shown implanted in a human patient and invaginated in
   the fundus. However, in the embodiment shown in Fig. 2A, the device 10 is invaginated
10 from the inside of the stomach, instead of from outside of the stomach, as in Fig. lA-C.
   The movement restriction device 10 comprises a body 13 adapted to rest against a portion
   of the inside wall of the stomach fundus wall 16 in a position between the patient's
   diaphragm 18 and at least a portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach fundus
   wall 16. In this embodiment, the body 13 is situated above the cardia area 14 of a standing
15 human or animal mammal patient. The body 13 of the device 10 is shaped to rest against
   the wall 16a of the fundus 16, and further, has an outer surface 15 suitable to rest against
   this fundus wall. Thus, with the device 10 invaginated in this fashion as described above in
   connection with Fig. IA, movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards
   the patient's diaphragm is restricted, thereby the cardia is prevented from sliding through
20 the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax 20 and the supporting pressure
   against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen is
   maintained.
   After invagination, a number of stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples 33a comprising a
   first fixation device are applied from inside the stomach 16 to keep the invagination intact
25 in the short term. This allows the growth of human tissue, keeping the invagination intact
   over the long term. Additional sutures or staples 22b comprising a second fixation device
   can be provided between a wall portion 16b of the fundus 16 forming part of the
   invagination of the device 10 and the wall 24a of the oesophagus 24 to hold the device 10
   in said position. Similarly, a third fixation device in the form of sutures or staples 22c can
30 be provided between another wall portion 16c of the fundus 16 forming part of the
   invagination of the device 10 and the diaphragm 18 to hold the device 10 in said position.
   An alternative embodiment is shown in Figure 2B. This embodiment is in many aspects
   similar to the one described with reference to Fig 2A. However, here the sutures and
   staples 22b and 33a are all connected to the fixator of the reflux treatment device 10. This
35 embodiment lacks stomach-to-diaphragm sutures or staples.
   An alternative an apparatus 19 for the treatment of reflux disease is depicted in Fig. 3A.

                                                   37
 5 This alternative is in many aspects similar to the ones described above with reference to
   Figs.  LA-C and 2 A-B. Thus, a movement restriction device 10 is shown implanted in a
   human patient. The device 10 comprises a body 13 adapted to rest against a portion of the
   stomach fundus wall 16 in a position between the patient's diaphragm 18 and stomach
   fundus wall 16. However, in this alternative, the device 10 is not invaginated in the
10 stomach 16. Instead, the affixation of the device 10 comprises an attachment structure
    10a, preferably a net like-structure that is adapted to be in contact with the fundus
   stomach wall 16a to promote the growth of human tissue to secure long term placement
   of the reflux disease treatment device attached to the stomach wall. In the short term, a
   first fixation device in the form of sutures or staples 44a may be provided between the
15 attachment structure 10a and the fundus wall 16a to keep the attachment structure 10a in
   place.
   The attachment structure 10a may be adapted for a second fixation device in the form of
   sutures or staples 44b that are provided between the wall 16a of the fundus 16 and the
   wall 24a of the oesophagus 24 to hold the device 10 in said position between the patient's
20 diaphragm 18 and stomach fundus wall 16. Similarly, the attachment structure 1Oa may
   also be adapted for a third fixation device in the form of sutures or staples 44c that are
   provided between the wall 16a of the fundus 16 and the diaphragm 18, again, to hold the
   device 10 in said position.
   An alternative embodiment is shown in Figure 3B. This embodiment is in many aspects
25 similar to the one described with reference to Fig 3A. In this embodiment, the reflux
   treatment device 10 is, like in figure 2A-B invaginated from the inside of the stomach.
   The attachment structure 10a is positioned on the wall 16a of the fundus 16 above and
   around the invagination created by the reflux treatment device 10.
   An alternative embodiment of an apparatus 21 for treatment of reflux disease in
30 accordance with the invention is depicted in Fig. 4A. This embodiment is in many aspects
   similar to the one described above with reference to Fig. lA-C. In Fig. 4A, a view of a
   device 10 for treatment of reflux disease in accordance with the invention is shown
   implanted in a human patient. In Fig. 4A, the movement restriction device 10 is again
   invaginated in the fundus 16. The device 10 comprises a body 13 having an outer surface
35 15 suitable for resting against a portion of the outside wall 16a of the stomach fundus wall
    16 in a position between the patient's diaphragm 18 and at least a portion of the lower part

                                                  38
 5 of the invaginated stomach fundus wall 16. The body 13 is shaped to rest against the
   outside wall 16a of the fundus 16. Thus, with the device 10 invaginated in this fashion,
   movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is
   restricted, thereby the cardia is prevented from sliding through the patient's diaphragm
   opening into the patient's thorax 20 and the supporting pressure against the patient's
10 cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen is maintained.
   In the embodiment of Fig. 4A, as in the embodiment of Fig.     LA, after invagination of the
   device 10 in the fundus 16, a first fixation device consisting of a number of stomach-to
   stomach sutures or staples 22a is applied to keep the invagination in tact in the short term.
   A second fixation device consisting of a number of sutures or staples 22b is provided to
15 hold the device 10 in said position between the patient's diaphragm 18 and at least a
   portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach fundus wall 16. Additionally, a third
   fixation device in the form of sutures or staples 22c may be provided between the wall 16a
   of the fundus 16 and the diaphragm 18, again, to hold the device 10 in said position.
   In the embodiment depicted in Fig. 4A, the size of the movement restriction device 10
20 can be regulated while being implanted. The device 10 is associated with a hydraulic
   reservoir 52 connected to the device- 10 by a lead 52b, whereby a non-invasive regulation
   can be performed by manually pressing the reservoir 52. The device 10 is, in tum,
   connected to one or more smaller chambers 10b.
   Furthermore, the embodiment above may alternatively be used to also treat obesity. The
25 apparatus may, in this embodiment, be adapted to treat obesity by using the volume of the
   movement restriction body 13 to contain a fluid, and further using one or more smaller
   chambers 10b connected to the body 13 with a pump to be filled with fluid to stretch the
   fundus wall to create satiety. The small chambers 10b are also adapted to be invaginated
   to in the fundus stomach wall, and when filled with fluid, an expansion occurs that results
30 in human sensor feedback creating satiety. By placing the small hydraulic reservoir/pump
   subcutaneously in the patient, the patient is able to pump hydraulic fluid to fill the small
   chambers to feel full on request.
   An alternative embodiment is shown in figure 4B. This embodiment is substantially
   similar to the one shown in figure 4A but differs in how the reflux treatment device 10
35 and chambers 10b are controlled. Here, the chambers 10b are not controlled by a

                                                 39
 5 subcutaneous pump but a powered internal control unit 56. The internal control unit 56
   comprises means for the patient to control the device 10 in how it shall be used regarding
   treatment of reflux and/or obesity. It may also comprise means of supplying power to the
   device.
   The internal control unit 56 may comprise a battery 70, an electric switch 72, a
10 motor/pump 44, a reservoir 52, an injection port 1001. An energy transmission device 34
   with a remote control is adapted for controlling and powering the device. The items being
   selected depending on the circumstances, e.g. if the device is electrically, hydraulically,
   pneumatically or mechanically operated.
   The control unit may receive input from any sensor 76, specially a pressure sensor. Any
15 type of sensor may be supplied. The internal control unit 56 preferable includes
   intelligence in forms of a FPGA or MCU or ASIC or any other circuit, component or
   memory (For a more extensive description see below under "system").
   Figure 4C shows essentially the same as figure 4A with the difference that there is one
   small chamber 10b instead of two small chambers as in 4A. Figure 4C shows the small
20 chamber 10b in its empty state whereas figure 4D shows the small chambers 10b when it
   has been filled and enlarged to create satiety.
   Yet an alternative embodiment of an apparatus 23 for the treatment of reflux disease in
   accordance with the invention is depicted in Fig. 5A. This embodiment is, again, in many
   aspects similar to the one described above with reference to Fig. lA-C. Thus, as in the
25 embodiment of Fig. IA, a movement restriction device 10, which is invaginated in the
   fundus, is comprised of a body 13 having an outer surface 15 suitable for resting against a
   portion of the outside wall 16a of the stomach fundus wall 16 in a position between the
   patient's diaphragm 18 and at least a portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach
   fundus wall 16. The body 13 of the device 10 is shaped to rest against the outside wall 16a
30 of the fundus 16 and has a generally smooth outer surface 15 suitable for resting against
   this fundus wall. And, again, after invagination of the device 10 in the fundus 16, a first
   fixation device consisting of a number of stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples 22a is
   applied to keep the invagination in tact in the short term. A second fixation device
   consisting of a number of sutures or staples 22b applied between the wall 16a of the
35 fundus 16 and the wall 24a of the oesophagus 24 is provided to hold the device 10 in said

                                                 40
 5 position.
   In the alternative embodiment shown in Fig. SA, the apparatus 23 further comprises a
   stimulation device 26 for sending out stimulation pulses adapted to stimulate the cardia
   muscle to further close the cardia to additionally prevent reflux disease. The apparatus 23
   comprises at least one conductor 26a and at least one electrode 26b adapted to receive the
10 stimulation pulses.
   The stimulation device 26 preferably comprises an electronic circuit and an energy
   source, which in the preferred embodiment is provided in the device 10.
   The stimulation device 26 preferably sends stimulation pulses as a train of pulses,
   wherein the pulse train is adapted to be repeated with a time break in between, the break
15 extending the break between each pulse in the pulse train.
   Figure 58 shows essentially the same embodiment as in figure 5A, with the addition of an
   internal control unit 56, a remote control 28 and an external energy transmission device
   34. The internal control unit 56 is connected to the stimulation device with a power lead
   56b.The internal control unit 57 may comprise a battery 70 and an electric switch 72 and
20 other components described below under "system".
   The reflux disease treatment device 10 can, in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention, be formed as a generally egg shaped body, as is shown in Fig. 6A. The
   reflux disease treatment device 10 can, in accordance with another embodiment of the
   present invention, also be formed as an egg or sphere shaped body with an indent in its
25 middle, as is shown in Fig. 6B. The reflux disease treatment device 10 can, in accordance
   with yet another embodiment of the present invention, further be formed as a slightly bent
   egg shaped body as shown in Fig. 6C.
   The reflux disease treatment device 10 can, in accordance with a further embodiment of
   the present invention, be formed as a generally spherically-shaped body, as shown in Fig.
30 6D.
   As discussed above, the reflux treatment device 10 is fixed in a position which is above
   the esophagus in a standing patient. To enable this, one embodiment of the reflux
   treatment shown in Figure 7 comprises a fixator 10d that may, for example, serve as an
   attachment point for sutures or staples. The fixator may be a loop or a ridge with or

                                                  41
 5 without holes or have any other shape that makes it suitable for fixating the reflux
   treatment device 10.
   Figure 8 show an embodiment of the reflux treatment device 10 where it is adjustable by
   a hydraulic means, and l0e is an injection port where hydraulic fluid can be in order to
   expand the device. Alternatively, in one embodiment the reflux treatment device 10 can
10 be inflated from a small size to a larger size during a surgical procedure where it is
   advantageous that the device is initially of small size, for example during a laparoscopic
   procedure. In such an embodiment, any filling material, solid, liquid or gas many injected
   trough the injection port 1Oe in order for the reflux treatment device 10 to achieve its final
   shape.
15 Figure 9 shows an embodiment where the reflux treatment device 10 has a sunken ridge
   10fadapted to being held with a surgical tool. This is to be used, for example, during a
   surgical procedure when the reflux treatment device is implanted.
   When the reflux disease treatment device 10 is generally spherical, whereby it can be
   made to wholly or partly encompass the esophagus, the inner diameter D of the reflux
20 disease treatment device 10, is preferably such that it can encompass the esophagus and at
   least a part of the fundus so that the device does not rest directly against the wall of the
   esophagus when implanted.
   The movement restriction device 10 may take any form that enables the device 10 to rest
   in a position in which movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards the
25 patient's diaphragm is restricted, thereby the cardia is prevented from sliding through the
   patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax and the supporting pressure against
   the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen is maintained.
   System
   An energy and operation system, generally designated 28, to be incorporated in the
30 apparatus according to the invention, will now be described with reference to Figs. 10-27.
   The system 28 shown in Fig. 10 comprises an internal energy source in the form of an
   implanted energy transforming device 30 adapted to supply energy consuming
   components of the reflux disease treatment apparatus with energy via a power supply line
   32. An external energy transmission device 34 includes a wireless remote control

                                                  42
 5 transmitting a wireless signal, which is received by a signal receiver which
   25 may be incorporated in the implanted energy transforming device 30, or be separate.
   The implanted energy transforming device 30 transforms energy from the signal into
   electric energy which is supplied via the power supply line 32.
   The system 28 of Fig. 10 is shown in a more generalized block diagram form in Fig. 11,
10 wherein the patient's skin 36, generally shown by a vertical line, separates the interior of
   the patient 29 to the right of the line from the exterior to the left of the line.
   Fig. 11 shows a simplified block diagram showing the movement restriction device 10,
   the energy transforming device 30 powering the device 10 via power supply line 32, and
   the external energy transmission device 34.
15 Fig. 12 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 11, except that a
   reversing device in the form of an electric switch 38 operable by polarized energy also is
   implanted in the patient 29 for reversing the device 10. The wireless remote control of the
   external energy transmission device 34 transmits a wireless signal that carries polarized
   energy and the implanted energy transforming device 30 transforms the wireless polarized
20 energy into a polarized current for operating the electric switch 38. When the polarity of
   the current is shifted by the implanted energy transforming device 30 the electric switch
   38 reverses the function performed by the device 10.
   Fig. 13 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 11, except that an
   operation device 40 implanted in the patient for regulating the reflux disease treatment
25 device 10 is provided between the implanted energy transforming device 30 and the
   device 10. This operation device can be in the form of a motor 40, such as an electric
   servomotor. The motor 40 is powered with energy from the implanted energy
   transforming device 30, as the remote control of the external energy transmission device
   34 transmits a wireless signal to the receiver of the implanted energy transforming device
30 30.
   Fig. 14 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 11, except that it
   also comprises an operation device is in the form of an assembly 42 including a
   motor/pump unit 78 and a fluid reservoir 46 is implanted in the patient. In this case the
   device 10 is hydraulically operated, i.e. hydraulic fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit

                                                  43
 5 44 from the fluid reservoir 46 through a conduit 48 to the device 10 to operate the device,
   and hydraulic fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit 44 back from the device 10 to the
   fluid reservoir 46 to return the device 10 to a starting position. The implanted energy
   transforming device 30 transforms wireless energy into a current, for example a polarized
   current, for powering the motor/pump unit 44 via an electric power supply line 50.
10 Instead of a hydraulically operated movement restriction device 10, it is also 5 envisaged
   that the operation device comprises a pneumatic operation device. In this case,
   pressurized air can be used for regulation and the fluid reservoir is replaced by an air
   chamber and the fluid is replaced by air.
   In all of these embodiments the energy transforming device 30 may include a
15 rechargeable accumulator like a battery or a capacitor to be charged by the wireless
   energy and supplies energy for any energy consuming part of theapparatus.
   The external energy transmission device 34 is preferably wireless and may include a
   remotely controlled control device for controlling the device 10 from outside the human
   body.
20 Such a control device may include a wireless remote control as well as a manual control
   of any implanted part to make contact with by the patient's hand most likely indirect for
   example a button to press placed under the skin.
   Fig. 15 shows an embodiment of the invention comprising the external energy
   transmission device 34 with its wireless remote control, the device 10, in this case
25 hydraulically operated, and the implanted energy transforming device 30, and further
   comprising a hydraulic fluid reservoir 52, a motor/pump unit 44 and an reversing device
   in the form of a hydraulic valve shifting device 54, all implanted in the patient. Of course
   the hydraulic operation could easily be performed by just changing the pumping direction
   and the hydraulic valve may therefore be omitted. The remote control may be a device
30 separated from the external energy transmission or included in the same. The motor of the
   motor/pump unit 44 is an electric motor. In response to a control signal from the wireless
   remote control of the external energy transmission device 34, the implanted energy
   transforming device 30 powers the motor/pump unit 44 with energy from the energy
   carried by the control signal, whereby the motor/pump unit 44 distributes hydraulic fluid
35 between the hydraulic fluid reservoir 52 and the device 10. The remote control of the

                                                 44
 5 external energy transmission device 34 controls the hydraulic valve shifting device 54 to
   shift the hydraulic fluid flow direction between one direction in which the fluid is
   pumped by the motor/pump unit 44 from the hydraulic fluid reservoir 52 to the device 10
   to 5 operate the device 10, and another opposite direction in which the fluid is pumped by
   the motor/pump unit 44 back from the device 10 to the hydraulic fluid reservoir 52 to
10 return the device 10 to a starting position.
   Fig. 16 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 15, except that an
   internal control unit 56 controlled by the wireless remote control of the external energy
   transmission device 34, an accumulator 58 and a capacitor 60 also are implanted in the
   patient. The internal control unit 56 arranges storage of electric energy received from the
15 implanted energy transforming device 30 in the accumulator 58, which supplies energy to
   the device 10. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote control of the
   external energy transmission device 34, the internal control unit 56 either releases electric
   energy from the accumulator 58 and transforms the released energy via power lines 62
   and 64, or directly transforms electric energy from the implanted energy transforming
20 device 30 via a power line 66, the capacitor 60, which stabilizes the electric current, a
   power line 68 and the power line 64, for the operation of the device 10.
   The internal control unit is preferably programmable from outside the patient's body. In a
   preferred embodiment, the internal control unit is programmed to regulate the device 10
   to stretch the stomach according to a pre-programmed time-schedule or to input from any
25 sensor sensing any possible physical parameter of the patient or any functional parameter
   of the device.
   In accordance with an alternative, the capacitor 60 in the embodiment of Fig. 16 may be
   omitted. In accordance with another alternative, the accumulator 58 in this embodiment
   may be omitted.
30 Fig. 17 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 10, except that a
   battery 70 for supplying energy for the operation of the device 10 and an electric switch
   72 for switching the operation of the device 10 also are implanted in the patient. The
   electric switch 72 is operated by the energy supplied by the implanted energy
   transforming device 30 to switch from an off mode, in which the battery 70 is not in use, to
35 an on mode, in which the battery 70 supplies energy for the operation of the device 10.

                                                  45
 5 Fig. 18 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 16, except that an
   internal control unit 56 controllable by the wireless remote control of the external energy
   transmission device 34 also is implanted in the patient. In this case, the electric switch 72
   is operated by the energy supplied by the implanted energy transforming device 30 to
   switch from an off mode, in which the wireless remote control is prevented from
10 controlling the internal control unit 56 and the battery is not in use, to a standby mode, in
   which the remote control is permitted to control the internal control unit 56 to release
   electric energy from the battery 70 for the operation of the device 10.
   Fig. 19 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 17, except that an
   accumulator 58 is substituted for the battery 70 and the implanted components are
15 interconnected differently. In this case, the accumulator 58 stores energy from the
   implanted energy transforming device 30. In response to a control signal from the
   wireless remote control of the external energy transmission device 34, the internal control
   unit 56 controls the electric switch 72 to switch from an off mode, in which the
   accumulator 58 is not in use, to an on mode, in which the accumulator 58 supplies energy
20 for the operation of the device 10.
   Fig. 20 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 18, except that a
   battery 70 also is implanted in the patient and the implanted components are
   interconnected differently. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote
   control of the external energy transmission device 34, the internal control unit 56 controls
25 the accumulator 58 to deliver energy for operating the electric switch 72 to switch from an
   off mode, in which the battery 70 is not in use, to an on mode, in which the battery 70
   supplies electric energy for the operation of the device 10.
   Alternatively, the electric switch 72 may be operated by energy supplied by the
   accumulator 58 to switch from an off mode, in which the wireless remote control is
30 prevented from controlling the battery 70 to supply electric energy and is not in use, to a
   standby mode, in which the wireless remote control is permitted to control the battery 70
   to supply electric energy for the operation of the device 10.
   It should be understood that the switch should be interpreted in its broadest embodiment.
   This means an FPGA or a DA converter or any other electronic component or circuit may
35 switch power on and off preferably being controlled from outside the patient's body or by

                                                  46
 5 an internal control unit.
   Fig. 21 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 17, except that a
   motor 40, a mechanical reversing device in the form of a gear box 74, and an internal
   control unit 56 for controlling the gear box 74 also are implanted in the patient. The
   internal control unit 56 controls the gear box 74 to reverse the function performed by the
10 device 10 (mechanically operated). Even simpler is to switch the direction of the motor
   electronically.
   Fig. 22 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 20 except that the
   implanted components are interconnected differently. Thus, in this case, the internal
   control unit 56 is powered by the battery 70 when the accumulator 58, suitably a
15 capacitor, activates the electric switch 72 to switch to an on mode. When the electric
   switch 72 is in its on mode the internal control unit 56 is permitted to control the battery
   70 to supply, or not supply, energy for the operation of the device 10.
   Fig. 23 schematically shows conceivable combinations of implanted components of the
   apparatus for achieving various communication options. Basically, there are the device
20 10, the internal control unit 56, motor or pump unit 44, and the external energy
   transmission device 34 including the external wireless remote control. As already
   described above the wireless remote control transmits a control signal which is received
   by the internal control unit 56, which in turn controls the various implanted components
   of the apparatus.
25 A feedback device, preferably in the form of a sensor 76, may be implanted in the patient
   for sensing a physical parameter of the patient, such as a contraction wave in the
   oesophagus informing the patient is eating. The internal control unit 56, or alternatively
   the external wireless remote control of the external energy transmission device 34, may
   control the device 10 in response to signals from the sensor 76. A transceiver may be
30 combined with the sensor 76 for sending information on the sensed physical parameter to
   the external wireless remote control. The wireless remote control may comprise a signal
   transmitter or transceiver and the internal control unit 56 may comprise a signal receiver
   or transceiver. Alternatively, the wireless remote control may comprise a signal receiver
   or transceiver and the internal control unit 56 may comprise a signal transmitter or
35 transceiver. Theabove transceivers, transmitters and receivers may be used for sending

                                                  47
 5 information or data related to the device 10 from inside the patient's body to the outside
   thereof.
   Alternatively, the sensor 76 may be arranged to sense a functional parameter of the
   device 10.
   Where the motor/pump unit 44 and battery 70 for powering the motor/pump unit 44 are
10 implanted, the battery 70 may be equipped with a transceiver for sending information on
   the condition of the battery 70. To be more precise, when charging a battery or
   accumulator with energy feed back information related to said charging process is sent
   and the energy supply is changed accordingly.
   Fig. 24 shows an alternative embodiment wherein the device 10 is regulated from outside
15 the patient's body. The system 28 comprises a movement restriction device 10 connected
   to a battery 70 via a subcutaneous switch 80. Thus, the regulation of the device 10 is
   performed non-invasively by manually pressing the subcutaneous switch, whereby the
   operation of the device 10 is switched on and off. It will be appreciated that the shown
   embodiment is a simplification and that additional components, such as an internal control
20 unit or any other part disclosed in the present application can be added to the system.
   Fig. 25 shows an alternative embodiment, wherein the system 28 comprises a movement
   restriction device 10 in fluid connection with a hydraulic fluid reservoir 52. Non-invasive
   regulation is performed by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir connected to the
   device 10.
25 A further embodiment of a system to be incorporated in the apparatus according to the
   invention comprises a feedback device for sending information from inside the patient's
   body to the outside thereof to give feedback information related to at least one functional
   parameter of the movement restriction device or apparatus or a physical parameter of the
   patient, thereby optimizing the performance of the apparatus.
30 One preferred functional parameter of the device is correlated to the transfer of energy for
   charging the internal energy source.
   In Fig. 26, an arrangement is schematically illustrated for supplying an accurate amount
   of energy to a system 28 implanted in a patient, whose skin 36 is indicated by a vertical
   line. A movement restriction device 10 is connected to an implanted energy transforming

                                                  48
 5 device 30, likewise located inside the patient, preferably just beneath the patient's skin 36.
   Generally speaking, the implanted energy transforming device 30 may be placed in the
   abdomen, thorax, muscle fascia (e.g. in the abdominal wall), subcutaneously, or at any
   other suitable location. The implanted energy transforming device 30 is adapted to receive
   wireless energy E transmitted from an external energy source 34a provided in the external
10 energy transmission device 34 located outside the patient's skin 36 in the vicinity of the
   implanted energy transforming device 30.
   As is well known in the art, the wireless energy E may generally be transferred by means
   of any suitable Transcutaneous Energy Transfer (TET) device, such as a device including
   a primary coil arranged in the external energy source 34a and an adjacent secondary coil
15 arranged in the implanted energy transforming device 30. When an electric current is fed
   through the primary coil, energy in the form of a voltage is induced in the secondary coil
   which can be used to operate a movement restriction device, e.g. after storing the
   incoming energy in an energy storing device or accumulator, such as a battery or a
   capacitor. However, the present invention is generally not limited to any particular energy
20 transfer technique, TET devices or energy storing devices, and any kind of wireless
   energy may be used.
   The amount of energy received inside the body to the device may be compared with the
   energy used by the device. The term used by the device is then understood to include also
   energy stored by the device. The amount of transferred energy can be regulated by means
25 of an external control unit 34b controlling the external energy source 34a based on the
   determined energy balance, as described above. In order to transfer the correct amount of
   energy, the energy balance and the required amount of energy can be determined by
   means of an internal control unit 56 connected to the reflux disease treatment device 10.
   The internal control unit 56 may thus be arranged to receive various measurements
30 obtained by suitable sensors or the like, not shown, measuring certain characteristics of the
   rIO, somehow reflecting the required amount of energy needed for proper operation of the
   device 10. Moreover, the current condition of the patient may also be detected by means
   of suitable measuring devices or sensors, in order to provide parameters reflecting the
   patient's condition. Hence, such characteristics and/or parameters may be related to the
35 current state of the device 10, such as power consumption, operational mode and
   temperature, as well as the patient's condition reflected by, e.g., body temperature, blood
   pressure, heartbeats and breathing.

                                                   49
 5 Furthermore, an energy storing device or accumulator 58 may optionally be connected to
   the implanted energy transforming device 30 for accumulating received energy for later
   use by the device 10. Alternatively or additionally, characteristics of such an
   accumulator, also reflecting the required amount of energy, may be measured as well.
   The accumulator may be replaced by a battery, and the measured characteristics may be
10 related to the current state of the battery, such as voltage, temperature, etc. In order to
   provide sufficient voltage and current to the device 10, and also to avoid excessive
   heating, it is clearly understood that the battery should be charged optimally by receiving
   a correct amount of energy from the implanted energy transforming device 30, i.e., not
   too little or too much. The accumulator may also be a capacitor with corresponding
15 characteristics.
   For example, battery characteristics may be measured on a regular basis to determine the
   current state of the battery, which then may be stored as state information in a suitable
   storage means in the internal control unit 56. Thus, whenever new measurements are
   made, the stored battery state information can be updated accordingly. In this way, the
20 state of the battery can be "calibrated" by transferring a correct amount of energy, so as to
   maintain the battery in an optimal condition.
   Thus, the internal control unit 56 is adapted to determine the energy balance and/or the
   currently required amount of energy, (either energy per time unit or accumulated energy)
   based on measurements made by the above-mentioned sensors or measuring devices on
25 the reflux disease treatment device 10, or the patient, or an energy storing device if used,
   or any combination thereof. The internal control unit 56 is further connected to an internal
   signal transmitter 82, arranged to transmit a control signal reflecting the determined
   required amount of energy, to an external signal receiver 34c connected to the external
   control unit 34b. The amount of energy transmitted from the external energy source 34a
30 may then be regulated in response to the received control signal.
   Alternatively, sensor measurements can be transmitted directly to the external control unit
   34b wherein the energy balance and/or the currently required amount of energy can be
   determined by the external control unit 34b, thus integrating the above- described
   function of the internal control unit 56 in the external control unit 34b. In that case, the
35 internal control unit 56 can be omitted and the sensor measurements are supplied directly
   to the internal signal transmitter 82 which sends the measurements over to the external

                                                   50
 5 signal receiver 34c and the external control unit 34b. The energy balance and the
   currently required amount of energy can then be determined by the external control unit
   34b based on those sensor measurements.
   Hence, the present solution employs the feed back of information indicating the required
   energy, which is more efficient than previous solutions because it is based on the actual
10 use of energy that is compared to the received energy, e.g. with respect to the amount of
   energy, the energy difference, or the energy receiving rate as compared to the energy rate
   used by the device 10. The device 10 may use the received energy either for consuming
   or for storing the energy in an energy storage device or the like. The different parameters
   discussed above would thus be used if relevant and needed and then as a tool for
15 determining the actual energy balance.
   However, such parameters may also be needed per se for any actions taken internally to
   specifically operate the device.
   The internal signal transmitter 82 and the external signal receiver 34c may be
   implemented as separate units using suitable signal transfer means, such as radio, IR
20 (Infrared) or ultrasonic signals. Alternatively, the internal signal transmitter 82 and the
   external signal receiver 34c may be integrated in the implanted energy transforming
   device 30 and the external energy source 34a, respectively, so as to convey control
   signals in a reverse direction relative to the energy transfer, basically using the same
   transmission technique. The control signals may be modulated with respect to frequency,
25 phase or amplitude.
   To conclude, the energy supply arrangement illustrated in Fig. 26 may operate basically
   in the following manner. The energy balance is first determined by the internal control
   unit 56. A control signal reflecting the required amount of energy is also created by the
   internal control unit 56, and the control signal is transmitted from the internal signal
30 transmitter 82 to the external signal receiver 34c. Alternatively, the energy balance can be
   determined by the external control unit 34b instead depending on the implementation, as
   mentioned above. In that case, the control signal may carry measurement results from
   various sensors. The amount of energy emitted from the external energy source 34a can
   then be regulated by the external control unit 34b, based on the determined energy
35 balance, e.g. in response to the received control signal. This process may be repeated

                                                 51
 5 intermittently at certain intervals during ongoing energy transfer, or may be executed on a
   more or less continuous basis during the energy transfer.
   The amount of transferred energy can generally be regulated by adjusting various
   transmission parameters in the external energy source 34a, such as voltage, current,
   amplitude, wave frequency and pulse characteristics.
10 A method is thus provided for controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied to an
   electrically operable reflux disease treatment device implanted in a patient. The wireless
   energy E is transmitted from an external energy source located outside the patient and is
   received by an internal energy receiver located inside the patient, the internal energy
   receiver being connected to the device 10 for directly or indirectly supplying received
15 energy thereto. An energy balance is determined between the energy received by the
   internal energy receiver and the energy used for the device 10. The transmission of
   wireless energy E from the external energy source is then controlled based on the
   determined energy balance.
   A system is also provided for controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied to an
20 electrically operable movement restriction device 10 implanted in a patient. The system is
   adapted to transmit the wireless energy E from an external energy source located outside
   the patient which is received by an implanted energy transforming device located inside
   the patient, the implanted energy transforming device being connected to the device 10
   for directly or indirectly supplying received energy thereto. The system is further adapted
25 to determine an energy balance between the energy received by the implanted energy
   transforming device and the energy used for the device 10, and control the transmission of
   wireless energy E from the external energy source, based on the determined energy
   balance.
   The functional parameter of the device is correlated to the transfer of energy for charging
30 the internal energy source.
   In yet an alternative embodiment, the external source of energy is controlled from outside
   the patient's body to release electromagnetic wireless energy, and released
   electromagnetic wireless energy is used for operating the device 10.
   In another embodiment, the external source of energy is controlling from outside the

                                                   52
 5 patient's body to release non-magnetic wireless energy, and released non-magnetic
   wireless energy is used for operating the device 10.
   Those skilled in the art will realize that the above various embodiments according to Figs.
   14-26 could be combined in many different ways. For example, the electric switch 38
   operated polarized energy could be incorporated in any of the embodiments of Figs. 12,
10 15-21, the hydraulic valve shifting device 54 could be incorporated in the embodiment of
   Fig. 24, and the gear box 74 could be incorporated in the embodiment of Fig. 33. It should
   be noted that the switch simply could mean any electronic circuit or component.
   Wireless transfer of energy for operating the movement restriction device 10 has been
   described to enable non-invasive operation. It will be appreciated that the device 10 can
15 be operated with wire bound energy as well. One such example is shown in Fig. 26,
   wherein an external switch 84 is interconnected between the external energy source 34a
   and an operation device, such as an electric motor regulating the device 10, by means of
   power lines 86 and 88. An external control unit 34b controls the operation of the external
   switch to effect proper operation of the device 10.
20 Hydraulic or pneumatic powering
   Figs. 28-31 show in more detail block diagrams of four different ways of hydraulically or
   pneumatically powering a movement restriction device according to the invention.
   Fig. 28 shows a system for treating reflux disease as described above with. The system
   comprises a device 10 and further a separate regulation reservoir 46, a one way pump 44
25 and an alternate valve 54.
   Fig. 29 shows the device 10 and a fluid reservoir 46. By moving the wall of the regulation
   reservoir or changing the size of the same in any other different way, the adjustment of
   the device may be performed without any valve, just free passage of fluid any time by
   moving the reservoir wall.
30 Fig. 30 shows the device 10, a two way pump 44 and the regulation reservoir 46.
   Fig. 31 shows a block diagram of a reversed servo system with a first closed system
   controlling a second closed system. The servo system comprises a regulation reservoir 46
   and a servo reservoir 90. The servo reservoir 90 mechanically controls a movement

                                                 53
 5 restriction device 10 via a mechanical interconnection 94. The device 10 has an
   expandable/contactable cavity. This cavity is preferably expanded or contracted by
   supplying hydraulic fluid from the larger adjustable reservoir 92 in fluid connection with
   the device 10. Alternatively, the cavity contains compressible gas, which can be
   compressed and expanded under the control of the servo reservoir 90.
10 The servo reservoir 90 can also be part of the device itself.
   In one embodiment, the regulation reservoir is placed subcutaneous under the patient's
   skin and is operated by pushing the outer surface thereof by means of a finger. This reflux
   disease treatment system is illustrated in Figs 32-c. In Fig. 31, a flexible subcutaneous
   regulation reservoir 46 is shown connected to a bulge shaped servo reservoir 90 by means
15 of a conduit 48. This bellow shaped servo reservoir 90 is comprised in a flexible
   movement restriction device 10. In the state shown in Fig. 32, the servo reservoir 90
   contains a minimum of fluid and most fluid is found in the regulation reservoir 46. Due to
   the mechanical interconnection between the servo reservoir 90 and the device 10, the
   outer shape of the device 10 is contracted, i.e., it occupies less than its maximum volume.
20 This maximum volume is shown with dashed lines in the figure.
   Fig. 32 shows a state wherein a user, such as the patient in with the device is implanted,
   presses the regulation reservoir 46 so that fluid contained therein is brought to flow
   through the conduit 48 and into the servo reservoir 90, which, thanks to its bellow shape,
   expands longitudinally. This expansion in tum expands the device 10 so that it occupies its
25 maximum volume, thereby stretching the stomach wall (not shown), which it contacts.
   The regulation reservoir 46 is preferably provided with means 46a for keeping its shape
   after compression. This means, which is schematically shown in the figure, will thus keep
   the device 10 in a stretched position also when the user releases the regulation reservoir.
   In this way, the regulation reservoir essentially operates as an on/off switch for the reflux
30 disease treatment system.
   An alternative embodiment of hydraulic or pneumatic operation will now be described
   with reference to Figs. 33and 34. The block diagram shown in Fig. 33 comprises with a
   first closed system controlling a second closed system. The first system comprises a
   regulation reservoir 46 and a servo reservoir 90. The servo reservoir 90 mechanically
35 controls a larger adjustable reservoir 92 via a mechanical interconnection 94. A

                                                  54
 5 movement restriction device 10 having an expandable/contactable cavity is in turn
   controlled by the larger adjustable reservoir 92 by supply of hydraulic fluid from the larger
   adjustable reservoir 92 in fluid connection with the device 10.
   An example of this embodiment will now be described with reference to Fig. 34. Like in
   the previous embodiment, the regulation reservoir is placed subcutaneous under the
10 patient's skin and is operated by pushing the outer surface thereof by means of a finger.
   The regulation reservoir 46 is in fluid connection with a bellow shaped servo reservoir 90
   by means of a conduit 48. In the first closed system 46, 48, 90 shown in Fig. 32a, the
   servo reservoir 90 contains a minimum of fluid and most fluid is found in the regulation
   reservoir 46.
15 The servo reservoir 90 is mechanically connected to a larger adjustable reservoir 92, in
   this example also having a bellow shape but with a larger diameter than the servo
   reservoir 90. The larger adjustable reservoir 92 is in fluid connection with the device 10.
   This means that when a user pushes the regulation reservoir 46, thereby displacing fluid
   from the regulation reservoir 46 to the servo reservoir 90, the expansion of the servo
20 reservoir 90 will displace a larger volume of fluid from the larger adjustable reservoir 92
   to the device 10. In other words, in this reversed servo, a small volume in the regulation
   reservoir is compressed with a higher force and this creates a movement of a larger total
   area with less force per areaunit.
   Like in the previous embodiment described above with reference to Figs. 32a-c, the
25 regulation reservoir 46 is preferably provided with means 46a for keeping its shape after
   compression. This means, which is schematically shown in the figure, will thus keep the
   device 10 in a stretched position also when the user releases the regulation reservoir. In
   this way, the regulation reservoir essentially operates as an on/off switch for the reflux
   disease treatment system.
30 In Fig. 35, a flow chart illustrating steps performed when implanting a device in 30
   accordance with the present invention. First in a step 102, an opening is cut in the
   abdominal wall. Next, in a step 104 an area around the stomach is dissected. Thereupon,
   in a step 106 at least one movement restriction device in accordance with the invention is
   placed in contact with the stomach wall, in particular the fundus wall. The stomach wall
35 is then sutured in a step 108.

                                                  55
 5 Method for the restoration of the location of the cardia and the fundus
   Figure 36 shows how an instrument 200 having at least one flexible part 201 is
   introduced into the esophagus 24 of a patient that is suffering from a hiatal hernia 202
   where a part of the esophagus 24 and fundus 16 that is supposed to be located below the
   diaphragm 18 has moved through the hiatus opening 18a to a position above the
10 diaphragm 18.
   In figure 37 it is shown how, in a subsequent step, a member 203 having a larger cross
   sectional area than said instrument 200 is released from the instrument 200. The member
   203 is adapted as to have a cross-sectional that is larger than the opening of the cardia 14.
   This can be achieved by radial expansion of the member 203. The instrument 200 is then
15 pushed in a distal direction so that the cardia 14 and the fundus 16, or part of fundus 16,
   incorrectly located above diaphragm 18, slide through the hiatus opening 18a back to a
   correct position below the diaphragm 18.
   Figure 38 shows an alternative method to the one shown in Fig. 37 which is an
   embodiment of the invention. In many aspects, this figure is similar to fig 37. In figure
20 38, the instrument 200 is adapted to release a balloon member 204 at the end 205 of the
   instrument 200 in the lower part of the stomach 206, and using the balloon member 204 to
   push the instrument 200 against the lower wall part of the stomach 207 so that the cardia
   14 and the fundus 16 or part of fundus 16 slide through the hiatus opening 18a to a
   position below the diaphragm 18.
25 Figure 39 shows yet an alternative method which is an embodiment of the invention.
   Again, this figure is in many aspects similar to fig 37. However, in figure 39 the method
   involves attaching the member 203 to the wall of the stomach 207 by a fixation 208. As
   described above the instrument is then pushed in a distal direction so the cardia 14 and the
   fundus 16 or, part of fundus 16, slides below the diaphragm 18.
30 Figure 40 shows how the fundus 16 and cardia 14 is located in a position below the
   diaphragm 18 after having been pushed through the hiatal opening 18a by the instrument
   200.
   Figure 41 shows a subsequent step of the method. After the fundus 16 and cardia 14 has
   been pushed into its correct position below the diaphragm 18, the wall of the fundus 16a

                                                   56
 5 is affixed to the lower part of the oesophagus 24. This is carried out by using a member
   209 in the proximal part 205 of the instrument 200 which is capable of providing sutures or
   staples 210. The fixation hinders the movement of the cardia 14 and the fundus 16 to a
   postion above the diaphragm 18.
   Other methods according to the invention are briefly described below.
10 A method of treating reflux disease of a patient comprises the step of implanting a reflux
   disease treatment system according to the invention into the patient's body.
   A method of using the system for treating reflux disease according to the invention
   comprises the step of regulating the device postoperatively to prevent reflux.
   A method for surgically placing a movement restriction device according to the invention
15 in a patient comprises the steps of cutting an opening in the abdominal wall of the patient,
   dissecting the area around the stomach, placing a movement restriction device attached to
   the stomach wall, and suturing the stomach wall.
   A method of using a reflux disease treatment system, postoperatively controlled from
   outside the body, regulating the device, comprises the steps of filling out a volume
20 attached to a part of the stomach wall, and regulating the device from outside the patient's
   body to affect the reflux of the patient.
   A method of using a movement restriction device comprises the steps of filling out a
   volume in a first part of the stomach wall by placing a first part of the device, filling out a
   volume in a second part of the stomach wall by placing a second part of the device, and
25 regulating the devices from outside the patient's body to affect the reflux of the patient.
   A method of treating reflux disease in a patient comprises the steps of inserting a needle or a
   tube like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body, using the needle or tube like
   instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas thereby expanding the abdominal cavity,
   placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body, inserting a camera through one
30 of the laparoscopic trocars into the patient's abdomen, inserting at least one dissecting tool
   through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars and dissecting an intended placement
   area of at least one portion of the stomach of the patient, placing a movement restrictiondevice
   according to the invention on the stomach fundus wall, invaginating the device in the stomach
   fundus wall, suturing the stomach wall to itself to keep the device in place, suturing the

                                                    57
 5 fundus of the stomach towards the lower part of the oesophagus, and preventing the cardia to
   slide up through the diaphragm into the thorax. Using the method and device as described
   herein will provide a treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease which is very effective
   and which does not suffer from complications such as damaging of tissue and undesired
   migration of non tissue into tissue.
10 The filling body of the device can be adapted to be pushed or pulled through a trocar for
   laparoscopic use, where the trocar has a diameter that is smaller than the relaxed diameter of
   the body. The filling body can include an outer wall and a hollow gas filled inner part that
   allow the body to pass through the trocar. Alternatively, the filling body can include an outer
   wall and a hollow fluid filled inner part that allow the body to pass through the trocar. In this
15 latter case, the fluid can be a gel. The filling body can further include multiple parts that can
   be inserted into the trocar, and that can then be put together into one unitary piece inside the
   patient's body, allowing the filling body to pass through the trocar. The filling body can
   include an outer wall and a hollow compressed inner part that is filled with a fluid or gel after
   insertion into the patient's body. The can further include an injection port that can be used to
20 fill the filling body with a fluid after insertion into the patient's body through the injection
   port.
   The filling body of the device can be an elastic compressible material, allowing the filling
   body to pass through the trocar. The filling body can be made from a material that is softer
   than 25 shore, or even 15 shore.
25 The filling body can also include an outer wall substantially taking the shape of a ball.
   The filling body can also include at least one holding device adapted to be used for
   pushing or pulling the filling body through a trocar for laparoscopic use. The holding
   device can be adapted to hold a prolongation of the device that is adapted to be held by a
   surgical instrument. The holding device can also hold a tread or band inserted through the
30 holding device. The holding device can also be at least partly placed inside the outer wall
   of the filling body. The filling body of the device can preferably has a size that is larger
   than the intestinal outlet from the stomach. to avoid ileus if the ball, s a complication,
   should enter into the stomach. Preferably, the body has a smallest outer diameter between
   30 mm and 40 mm or larger. Preferably, the body has a smallest outer circumference
35 between 30 mm and 150 mm.

                                                  58
 5 Preferred embodiments of a device for treating reflux disease, a system comprising a
   device for treating reflux disease, and a method according to the invention have been
   described. A person skilled in the art realizes that these could be varied within the scope
   of the appended claims. Thus, although the different features have been described in
   specific embodiments, it will be appreciated that they can be combined in different
10 configurations when applicable. For example, although hydraulic control has been
   described in association with the device configuration of Fig. 4 A-B, it can also be applied
   to the device configurations of Figs. 2 A-Band 3A-B.
   It is important that the implanted reflux treatment device is firmly kept in place in the
   stomach wall in which it is invaginated. To this end, the reflux treatment device can be
15 provided with one or more through holes adapted for receiving sutures or staples used for
   fixation of the invagination. Such an embodiment is shown in Fig. 42, where the reflux
   treatment device 10 is provided with a row of holes 10i provided on a protruding flange
   like protrusion on the reflux treatment device. In this embodiment, the row of holes extend
   along the longitudinal axis of the reflux treatment device.
20 Fig. 43 illustrates how sutures 314 are provided so that they run through the stomach wall
    12a and through the holes 10i. In this way, the reflux treatment device is fixed in place in
   the pouch created from the stomach wall and will thus be prevented from sliding.
   Although a plurality of holes is illustrated in the Fig. 42, it will be appreciated that
   one single hole is sufficient to obtain improved fixation of the reflux treatment device
25  10.
   Fig. 44 illustrates a reflux treatment device provided with an inlet port 10h. The reflux
   treatment device is invaginated in the stomach wall and the inlet port 10h is available for
   connection to a tube or the like from the abdominal area of the patient.
   Fig. 45 illustrates an invaginated reflux treatment device wherein, instead of an inlet
30 port, a fixed tube 1Og extends into the abdominal area of the patient.
   Fig. 46 is a figure similar to Fig. 44 but also illustrating tunneling of a connection
   tube lOg in the stomach wall between the inlet port 10h and the reflux treatment
   device 10.
   It has been shown that the shape of the reflux treatment device can take many

                                                  59
 5 different forms. It will be appreciated that also the material of the reflux treatment
   device can vary. It is preferred that the reflux treatment device is provided with a
   coating, such as a Parylene, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), or polyurethane coating,
   or a combination of such coatings, i.e., a multi-layer coating. This coating or multi
   layer coating improves the properties of the reflux treatment device, such as its
10 resistance to wear.
   In one embodiment, the reflux treatment device comprises an inflatable device
   expandable to an expanded state. In this case, the inflatable device is provided with
   an inlet port for a fluid and is adapted to be connected to a gastroscopic instrument.
   This embodiment will now be described in detail with reference to Figs. 47a-47d.
15 An inflatable reflux treatment device in its non-expanded state is shown in Fig. 47a.
   It is essentially a balloon-like, deflated device 10 having an inlet port 1Oh. In this
   state, the inflatable device has a diameter of a few millimeters at the most, allowing it
   to be inserted into the stomach through the esophagus of the patient by means of a
   gastroscopic, tube-like instrument 600, depicted in figure 47b. The instrument comprises
20 an outer sleeve 600a and an inner sleeve 600b which can be displaced longitudinally
   relatively to the outer sleeve. The inner sleeve is provided with a cutter in the form of a
   cutting edge 615 at the distal end thereof. This cutting edge can be used for cutting a hole
   in the stomach wall, as will be explained in detail in the following.
   When the instrument reaches a stomach wall, see Fig. 47c, the inner sleeve is brought
25 forward from its position in the outer sleeve and into contact with the stomach wall 12a.
   The cutting edge 615 of the inner sleeve then cuts a hole in the stomach wall so as to
   allow subsequent insertion of the reflux treatment device 10 into and through this hole,
   see Fig. 47d. In order to push the reflux treatment device through the hole, a piston 602
   may be provided in the instrument. Thus, the instrument further comprises a piston 602
30 adapted for pushing a deflated reflux treatment device 10 out from a position in the inner
   sleeve, this position being shown in Fig. 47b, to a position outside of the inner sleeve, this
   being shown in Fig. 47d.
   In order to protect the deflated reflux treatment device 10 from the cutting edge 615 of
   the inner sleeve, a further protective sleeve (not shown) can be provided around the reflux
35 treatment device.

                                                 60
 5 An intraluminar method of invaginating a reflux treatment device 10 on the outside of the
   stomach wall 12a will now be described with reference to Figs. 48a-i. Initially, an
   instrument 600, preferably a gastroscopic instrument, is inserted into the mouth of the
   patient, see Fig. 48a. The instrument comprises an injection device 601, 602 for injecting
   either fluid or a device into the stomach of the patient. The instrument 600 further
10 comprises a control unit 606 adapted for controlling the operation of the instrument. To
   this end, the control unit 606 comprises one or more steering devices, in the embodiment
   shown in the figure in the form of two joysticks 603 and two control buttons 604. A
   display 605 is provided for displaying the image provided by a camera (not shown)
   arranged at the outer end of the elongated member 607, see Figs. 48e-i. The camera may
15 be assisted by a light source (not shown).
   The instrument is further inserted into the esophagus and into the stomach of the patient,
   see Fig. 48b. By means of the instrument 600, a hole 12b is created in the wall of the
   stomach 12. To this end, the instrument is provided with one or more cutters 615 at the
   distal end thereof, for example in the way described above with reference to Figs. 47a-d.
20 These cutters can of course be designed in different ways, such as a toothed drum cutter
   rotating about the center axis of the tube-like instrument. The instrument 600 is hollow
   providing a space for the reflux treatment device 10 in its deflated state.
   After cutting a hole in the stomach wall, the distal end of the instrument 600 is inserted
   into and through the hole 12b so that it ends up outside the stomach wall 12a. This is
25 shown in Fig. 48c, showing a side view of the stomach 12, and Fig. 48d, which is a
   sectional view through the stomach of Fig. 48c taken along the lines Vd - Vd. The
   deflated reflux treatment device 10 is then inserted in the abdominal area.
   The instrument 600 is adapted to create a "pocket" or "pouch" on the outside of the
   stomach 12 around the hole 12b in the stomach wall. Such an instrument and the method
30 of providing the pouch will now be described.
   Figs. 48e-i show a gastroscopic or laparoscopic instrument for invaginating a reflux
   treatment device 10 in the stomach wall 12a of the patient by creating a pouch of stomach
   wall 12a material in which the reflux treatment device is placed. The instrument,
   generally designated 600, and which may comprise the features described above with
35 reference to Figs. 47a-d, comprises an elongated member 607 having a proximal end and

                                                  61
 5 a distal end, the elongated member 607 having a diameter less than that of the patient's
   esophagus and being flexible such as to allow introduction of the flexible elongated
   member 607 with its distal end first through the patient's throat, esophagus and into the
   stomach 12 to the stomach wall 12a.
   The stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is provided on the elongated member 607 at
10 the distal end thereof for penetrating the stomach wall 12a so as to create a hole in the
   stomach wall 12a, to allow introduction of the elongated member 607 through the hole.
   The stomach penetration device 615 could be adapted to be operable for retracting said
   stomach penetration device 615 after the stomach fundus wall 12a has been penetrated,
   for not further damaging tissue within the body. The instrument further comprises a
15 special holding device 609 provided on the elongated member 607 on the proximal side
   to the penetration device 615.
   The elongated member further comprises an expandable member 611 which is adapted to
   be expanded after the elongated member has penetrated the stomach wall 12a and thereby
   assist in the creation of a cavity or pouch adapted to hold the reflux treatment device 610.
20 The expandable member 611 may comprise an inflatable circular balloon provided
   circumferentially around the distal end portion of the flexible elongated member 607.
   The method steps when invaginating the reflux treatment device will now be described in
   detail. After the instrument 600 has been inserted into the stomach 12, the stomach
   penetration device 615 is placed into contact with the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 48e. The
25 stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is then brought to create the hole 12b in the
   stomach wall, whereafter at least the expandable member 611 is brought through the hole
   12b in the stomach wall. The special holding device 609 is in this step brought to a
   holding state wherein it expands radially so as to form an essentially circular abutment
   surface to the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 48f. In this way, the insertion of the stomach
30 penetration device 615 and the expandable member 611 through the hole 12a in the
   stomach wall is limited to the position shown in Fig. 48f.
   The expandable member 611 is then expanded. In the case the expandable member
   comprises a balloon or the like, air or other fluid is injected into it.

                                                    62
 5 The part of the elongated member 607 comprising the expandable member 611 is then
   retracted in the proximal direction, as indicated by the arrow in Fig. 48g, thereby pulling
   the stomach wall 612 into a basket like structure created by the special holding device
   609.
   A suturing or stapling device 608 is further provided, either as a device connected to the
10 elongated member 607 or as a separate instrument. The suturing or stapling member
   comprises a suturing or stapling end 613 which is adapted to close the cavity or pouch by
   means of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14.
   In a further step, illustrated in Fig. 48h, an inflatable reflux treatment device 10 is placed
   in its deflated state in the basket like structure. The reflux treatment device 10 is then
15 inflated to its inflated or expanded state, see Fig. 48i. This inflation of the reflux
   treatment device 10 can be accomplished by injecting a fluid or a gel into the deflated
   reflux treatment device. It can also be accomplished by injecting a material which is
   allowed to cure, thereby forming a solid device 10. Thus, the reflux treatment device 10
   shown in Figs. 48h and 48i can illustrate either a balloon-like device which is
20 subsequently filled with fluid or gel or alternatively a material which is simply injected
   into the basket like structure formed by the stomach wall 12a.
   The fluid which is used to fill the reflux treatment device 10 could be any suitable fluid
   suitable to fill the inflatable device 10, such as a salt solution. In another embodiment,
   when this fluid is a fluid which is adapted to be transformed into solid state, the fluid
25 could be liquid polyurethane.
   In order to minimize or entirely eliminate leakage, the fluid is iso-tonic, i.e., it has the
   same osmolarity as human body fluids. Another way of preventing diffusion is to provide
   a fluid which comprises large molecules, such as iodine molecules.
   The stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples are preferably provided with fixation portions
30 exhibiting a structure, such as a net like structure, adapted to be in contact with the
   stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure the long term placement of
   the reflux treatment device attached to the stomach wall.
   After the inflatable device 10 has been inflated, partly or fully, the inlet port lOb (not
   shown in Figs. 48h and 48i) of the reflux treatment device 10, is sealed and the

                                                 63
 5 instrument 600 is retracted from the hole 12b, which is subsequently closed in some
   suitable way, such as by means of the instrument 600. The instrument is then removed
   from the stomach 600 and the inflatable device 10 in its inflated or expanded state is
   invaginated by a stomach wall portion of the patient on the outside of the stomach wall.
   During one or more of the above described steps, the stomach may be inflated with gas,
10 preferably by means of the gastroscopic instrument.
   The reflux treatment device 10 described above with reference to Figs. 48a-i has been
   described as an inflatable reflux treatment device. It will be appreciated that is 5 also can
   be an elastic reflux treatment device with an elasticity allowing compression so as to be
   inserted into a gastroscopic instrument and which expands to an expanded state after
15 leaving the instrument.
   The apparatus for treating reflux can have the additional functionality of treating obsesity.
   In such an embodiment, the reflux treatment device may be a volume filling device that
   fills a volume of the stomach and thereby creating satiety. An embodiment having this
   function is shown in Fig. 49, wherein a combined reflux treatment device and obesity
20 treatment device 310 is invaginated in the stomach wall close to and at least partially
   above the patient's cardia 14 when the patient is in a standing position and is fixed to a
   position above the cardia area 14c by a fixation, such as sutures or staples 22. For example
   a direct or indirect fixation to the diaphragm muscle or associated muscles may be
   provided. As an alternative a direct or indirect fixation to the esophagus above and close
25 to the angle of His can be provided. In this alternative embodiment, the combined device
   310 rests in a position against stomach wall of the fundus when implanted and which also
   fills a volume above the cardia area 14c between the cardia and the diaphragm muscle so
   that the cardia is prevented from slipping up into the thorax cavity, whereby reflux disease
   is prevented.
30 Such a combined device 310 may be used for keeping electronics and/or an energy source
   and/or hydraulic fluid. Hydraulic fluid from that device may be distributed to 25 several
   smaller inflatable device areas to vary the stretching area from time to time avoiding any
   possible more permanent stretching effect of the stomach wall. Even mechanically several
   stretching areas may be used.
35 Combination reflux treatment device - stretching device

                                                  64
 5 In an alternative embodiment, which is shown in Fig. 50, the volume of an inflatable
   reflux treatment device 310 may be in fluid connection with one or more preferably
   smaller inflatable devices or chambers 10b. These chambers are adapted to communicate
   with fluid or air being moved between the chambers.
   Thus, the large chamber 310 is adapted to, with its main volume to be a reflux treatment
10 device for reducing the size of the food cavity and for treating reflux disease and the one
   or several small chambers are adapted to function as the inflatable devices to treat
   obesity, wherein the main chamber is adapted to communicate with fluid or air to the
   small chambers causing a stretching effect in the stomach wall thereby further treating
   obesity.
15 Fig 51 show an embodiment with a combination of a volume filling device invaginated in
   the central or lower portion of the stomach and a stretching device invaginated in the
   upper portion or fundus of the patient's stomach. These two devices serve to treat obesity.
   The volume filling device 399 fills a volume of the stomach creating satiety. The
   stretching device stretches the wall of the stomach. This stretches the tissue setting off a
20 endogenous signaling that creates satiety. This mimics the stretching effect of filling the
   stomach with food. Thus, in Fig. 51 there is shown an adjustable volume filling device
   399, which is invaginated in the stomach wall of apatient's stomach 312. Additionally, an
   adjustable stretching device 350 with the previously described function is invaginated in
   the stomach fundus wall of the patient. It is preferred that the volume filling device 399 is
25 substantially larger than the stretching device 350.
   The volume filling device 399 and the stretching device 350 can be adapted to treat
   reflux. In one embodiment, the volume filling device and the stretching device are
   positioned to prevent the cardia 14 from slipping upwards trough the opening of the hernia
    18a to a position above the diaphragm 18.
30 The volume filling device 399 and the stretching device 350 are in fluid communication
   with each other via a first fluid tube 352, in which a pump 354 is provided. The pump
   354 is under the control from an energy transforming device 330, which is adapted to
   supply the pump 350 with energy via a power supply line 356. The energy transforming
   device 330 is also connected to a sensor 319 provided in the esophagus of the patient so
35 that food intake can be detected.

                                                  65
 5 The reflux treatment device 10 and the stretching device 350 are also in fluid
   communication with each other via a second fluid tube 358, which preferably has a
   smaller cross-sectional area than the first fluid tube 352.
   The operation of this arrangement is as follows. The volume filling device 399 functions
   as in the above described embodiments, i.e., it reduces the size of the food cavity of the
10 patient's stomach 12. Additionally, when the stretching device 350 is enlarged by
   pumping fluid from the volume filling device 10 and to the stretching device 350 by
   means of the pump 354, t e stomach fundus wall is stretched, creating a feeling of satiety
   for the patient. Thus, for example when food intake is detected by means of the sensor
   319, fluid is automatically pumped into the stretching device 350 to increase the feeling of
15 satiety and thereby limit the foodintake.
   When fluid has been injected into the stretching device 350, the internal pressure therein
   is higher than the internal pressure in the reflux treatment device 399. This difference in
   pressure will create a flow of fluid in the second, preferably narrower tube 358 from the
   stretching device 350 to the reflux treatment device 399. The flow rate will be determined
20 by among other things the difference in pressure and the cross-sectional area of the second
   tube 358. It is preferred that the second tube is so dimensioned, that the pressures in the
   volume filing device 399 and the stretching device 350 will return to equilibrium after 3
   hours after fluid has been injected into the stretching device 350 to create the feeling of
   satiety.
25 In this embodiment, the function of the second tube 358 is to allow fluid to return from
   the stretching device 350 to the volume filling device 399. It will be appreciated that this
   function also can be performed by the pump 354 in the first tube 352 and that the second
   tube 358 then can be omitted.
   Method for placing an reflux treatment device on the inside of the stomach wall:
30 In the following a method and an instrument for placing a reflux treatment device on the
   inside of the stomach wall will be described.
   The invagination instrument described in Fig. 52a-1 generally designated 630, comprises
   an elongated tube member 632 similar to the elongated member 607 described above with
   reference to Figs. 48a-i. Thus, it can be connected to a control unit 606, see Fig. 48a. The

                                                  66
 5 invagination instrument 630 further comprises a perforated suction portion 634, which
   preferably is elongated. The suction portion 634 exhibits a plurality of small holes 636,
   into which air will be sucked by providing suction in the tube member 632. This suction
   effect will be used to create a "pocket" or "pouch" in a part of a stomach wall, generally
   designated 12a.
10 In other words, when the tip of the suction portion 634 is pressed against the stomach
   wall 12a, see Fig. 52a, a small recess will be formed therein. When the suction portion
   634 is further pressed against the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 52b, a larger recess will be
   formed. The part of the stomach wall 12a that forms the recess will, due to the suction
   effect, adhere to the suction portion 634 of the invagination instrument 630. As the
15 suction portion 634 is further pressed into the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 52c, a deeper
   recess will be formed until the entire suction portion 634 is embedded in the recess, see
   Fig. 18d.
   The rim of the recess will at this stage be fixated by means of fixation elements 638 and
   the suction portion be removed from the instrument, see Fig. 52e. A compressed elastic
20 reflux treatment device 10 will subsequently be inserted into the recess, see Fig. 52f, for
   example in the way described above with reference to Fig. 47d. This compressed reflux
   treatment device is then expanded to its final shape, see Fig. 52g, where after the pouch is
   sealed by suturing or stapling by means of the fixations elements, see Fig. 52h.
   All the alternatives described above with reference to Figs. 1-51 are also applicable to the
25 embodiment described with reference to Figs. 52a- 1, i.e., to the embodiment where the
   reflux treatment device is invaginated on the inside of the stomach wall.
   Figs 53 a-c show an instrument for creating an invagiation of the wall of the stomach that
   can either be placed on the outside of the wall of the stomach or on the inside of the wall
   of the stomach depending if the reflux treatment device is place on the inside or the outside
30 of the wall. The instrument uses vacuum to such a portion of the wall of the stomach into
   the cup of the instrument.
   It has been described how the reflux treatment device 10 is invaginated in the stomach
   wall by means of a gastroscopic instrument. The gastroscopic instrument can be used for
   either placing the reflux treatment device on the outside of the wall of the stomach as
35 shown in figure 1A or on the inside of the stomach as shown in figure 2A. In the latter

                                                   67
 5 case, the instruments will be used to make an incision in the wall of the stomach from the
   inside of the stomach.
   It will be appreciated that abdominal operation methods can be used as well. Such
   methods will now be described in with reference to Figs. 54-55.In figure 54 it is shown
   how the stomach is accessed by creating an incision 380 n the abdomen of the patient. In
10 figure 55 it is shown how an instrument 381 is inserted into the abdomen of the patient.
   Any of the instruments and methods described can be selected an adapted for this
   purpose. Thus, for example, the reflux treatment device can be placed on the outside of
   the stomach as shown in figure IA or on the inside as shown in figure 2A. In the later case
   an incision is made in the wall of the stomach.
15 It is important that the implanted reflux treatment device is firmly kept in place in the
   stomach wall in which it is invaginated. To this end, the reflux treatment device can be
   provided with one or more through holes adapted for receiving sutures or staples used for
   fixation of the invagination. Such an embodiment is shown in Fig. 42, where the reflux
   treatment device 10 is provided with a row of holes 10i provided on a protruding flange
20 like protrusion on the reflux treatment device. In this embodiment, the row of holes extend
   along the longitudinal axis of the reflux treatment device.
   Fig. 43 illustrates how sutures 314 are provided so that they run through the stomach wall
   12a and through the holes 10i. In this way, the reflux treatment device is fixed in place in
   the pouch created from the stomach wall and will thus be prevented from sliding.
25 Although a plurality of holes is illustrated in the Fig. 42, it will be appreciated that one
   single hole is sufficient to obtain improved fixation of the reflux treatment device 10.
   Fig. 44 illustrates a reflux treatment device provided with an inlet port 1Oh. The reflux
   treatment device is invaginated in the stomach wall and the inlet port 1 Oh is available for
   connection to a tube or the like from the abdominal area of the patient.
30 Fig. 45 illustrates an invaginated reflux treatment device wherein, instead of an inlet port, a
   fixed tube 1Og extends into the abdominal area of the patient.
   Fig. 46 is a figure similar to Fig. 44 but also illustrating tunneling of a connection tube
   1Og in the stomach wall between the inlet port 10h and the reflux treatment device 10.

                                                   68
 5 It has been shown that the shape of the reflux treatment device can take many different
   forms. It will be appreciated that also the material of the reflux treatment device can vary.
   It is preferred that the reflux treatment device is provided with a coating, such as a
   Parylene, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), or polyurethane coating, or a combination of
   such coatings, i.e., a multi-layer coating. This coating or multi- layer coating improves
10 the properties of the reflux treatment device, such as its resistance to wear.
   In one embodiment, the reflux treatment device comprises an inflatable device
   expandable to an expanded state. In this case, the inflatable device is provided with an
   inlet port for a fluid and is adapted to be connected to a gastroscopic instrument. This
   embodiment will now be described in detail with reference to Figs. 47a-47d.
15 An inflatable reflux treatment device in its non-expanded state is shown in Fig. 47a. It is
   essentially a balloon-like, deflated device 10 having an inlet port 10h. In this state, the
   inflatable device has a diameter of a few millimeters at the most, allowing it to be inserted
   into the stomach through the esophagus of the patient by means of a gastroscopic, tube
   like instrument 600, depicted in figure 47b. The instrument comprises an outer sleeve
20 600a and an inner sleeve 600b which can be displaced longitudinally relatively to the
   outer sleeve. The inner sleeve is provided with a cutter in the form of a cutting edge 615
   at the distal end thereof. This cutting edge can be used for cutting a hole in the stomach
   wall, as will be explained in detail in the following.
   When the instrument reaches a stomach wall, see Fig. 47c, the inner sleeve is brought
25 forward from its position in the outer sleeve and into contact with the stomach wall 12a.
   The cutting edge 615 of the inner sleeve then cuts a hole in the stomach wall so as to
   allow subsequent insertion of the reflux treatment device 10 into and through this hole,
   see Fig. 47d. In order to push the reflux treatment device through the hole, a piston 602
   may be provided in the instrument. Thus, the instrument further comprises a piston 602
30 adapted for pushing a deflated reflux treatment device 10 out from a position in the inner
   sleeve, this position being shown in Fig. 47b, to a position outside of the inner sleeve, this
   being shown in Fig. 47d.
   In order to protect the deflated reflux treatment device 10 from the cutting edge 615 of
   the inner sleeve, a further protective sleeve (not shown) can be provided around the reflux
35 treatment device.

                                                  69
 5 An intraluminar method of invaginating a reflux treatment device 10 on the outside of the
   stomach wall 12a will now be described with reference to Figs. 48a-i. Initially, an
   instrument 600, preferably a gastroscopic instrument, is inserted into the mouth of the
   patient, see Fig. 48a. The instrument comprises an injection device 601, 602 for injecting
   either fluid or a device into the stomach of the patient. The instrument 600 further
10 comprises a control unit 606 adapted for controlling the operation ofthe instrument. To
   this end, the control unit 606 comprises one or more steering devices, in the embodiment
   shown in the figure in the form of two joysticks 603 and two control buttons 604. A
   display 605 is provided for displaying the image provided by a camera (not shown)
   arranged at the outer end of the elongated member 607, see Figs. 48e-i. The camera may
15 be assisted by a light source (not shown).
   The instrument is further inserted into the esophagus and into the stomach of the patient,
   see Fig. 48b. By means of the instrument 600, a hole 12b is created in the wall of the
   stomach 12. To this end, the instrument is provided with one or more cutters 615 at the
   distal end thereof, for example in the way described above with reference to Figs. 47a-d.
20 These cutters can of course be designed in different ways, such as a toothed drum cutter
   rotating about the center axis of the tube-like instrument. The instrument 600 is hollow
   providing a space for the reflux treatment device 10 in its deflated state.
   After cutting a hole in the stomach wall, the distal end of the instrument 600 Is inserted
   into and through the hole 12b so that it ends up outside the stomach wall 12a. This is
25 shown in Fig. 48c, showing a side view of the stomach 12, and Fig. 48d, which is a
   sectional view through the stomach of Fig. 48c taken along the lines Vd - Vd. The
   deflated reflux treatment device 10 is then inserted in the abdominal area.
   The instrument 600 is adapted to create a "pocket" or "pouch" on the outside of the
   stomach 12 around the hole 12b in the stomach wall. Such an instrument and the method
30 of providing the pouch will now be described.
   Figs. 48e-i show a gastroscopic or laparoscopic instrument for invaginating a reflux
   treatment device 10 in the stomach wall 12a of the patient by creating a pouch of stomach
   wall 12a material in which the reflux treatment device is placed. The instrument,
   generally designated 600, and which may comprise the features described above with
35 reference to Figs. 47a-d, comprises an elongated member 607 having a proximal end and

                                                  70
 5 a distal end, the elongated member 607 having a diameter less than that of the patient's
   esophagus and being flexible such as to allow introduction of the flexible elongated
   member 607 with its distal end first through the patient's throat, esophagus and into the
   stomach 12 to the stomach wall 12a.
   The stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is provided on the elongated member 607 at
10 the distal end thereof for penetrating the stomach wall 12a so as to create a hole in the
   stomach wall 12a, to allow introduction of the elongated member 607 through the hole.
   The stomach penetration device 615 could be adapted to be operable for retracting said
   stomach penetration device 615 after the stomach fundus wall 12a has been penetrated, for
   not further damaging tissue within the body. The instrument further comprises a special
15 holding device 609 provided on the elongated member 607 on the proximal side to the
   penetration device 615.
   The elongated member further comprises an expandable member 611 which is adapted to
   be expanded after the elongated member has penetrated the stomach wall 12a and thereby
   assist in the creation of a cavity or pouch adapted to hold the reflux treatment device 610.
20 The expandable member 611 may comprise an inflatable circular balloon provided
   circumferentially around the distal end portion of the flexible elongated member 607.
   The method steps when invaginating the reflux treatment device will now be described in
   detail. After the instrument 600 has been inserted into the stomach 12, the stomach
   penetration device 615 is placed into contact with the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 48e. The
25 stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is then brought to create the hole 12b in the
   stomach wall, whereafter at least the expandable member 611 is brought through the hole
   12b in the stomach wall. The special holding device 609 is in this step brought to a
   holding state wherein it expands radially so as to form an essentially circular abutment
   surface to the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 48f. In this way, the insertion of the stomach
30 penetration device 615 and the expandable member 611 through the hole 12a in the
   stomach wall is limited to the position shown in Fig. 48f.
   The expandable member 611 is then expanded. In the case the expandable member
   comprises a balloon or the like, air or other fluid is injected into it.
   The part of the elongated member 607 comprising the expandable member 611 is then
35 retracted in the proximal direction, as indicated by the arrow in Fig. 48g, thereby pulling

                                                    71
 5 the-stomach wall 612 into a basket like structure created by the special holding device 609.
   A suturing or stapling device 608 is further provided, either as a device connected to the
   elongated member 607 or as a separate instrument. The suturing or stapling member
   comprises a suturing or stapling end 613 which is adapted to close the cavity or pouch by
   means of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14.
10 In a further step, illustrated in Fig. 48h, an inflatable reflux treatment device 10 is placed
   in its deflated state in the basket like structure. The reflux treatment device 10 is then
   inflated to its inflated or expanded state, see Fig. 48i. This inflation of the reflux
   treatment device 10 can be accomplished by injecting a fluid or a gel into the deflated
   reflux treatment device. It can also be accomplished by injecting a material which is
15 allowed to cure, thereby forming a solid device 10. Thus, the reflux treatment device 10
   shown in Figs. 48h and 48i can illustrate either a balloon-like device which is
   subsequently filled with fluid or gel or alternatively a material which is simply injected
   into the basket like structure formed by the stomach wall 12a.
   The fluid which is used to fill the reflux treatment device 10 could be any suitable fluid
20 suitable to fill the inflatable device 10, such as a salt solution. In another embodiment,
   when this fluid is a fluid which is adapted to be transformed into solid state, the fluid
   could be liquid polyurethane.
   In order to minimize or entirely eliminate leakage, the fluid is iso-tonic, i.e., it has the
   same osmolarity as human body fluids. Another way of preventing diffusion is to provide
25 a fluid which comprises large molecules, such as iodine molecules.
   The stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples are preferably provided with fixation portions
   exhibiting a structure, such as a net like structure, adapted to be in contact with the
   stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure the long term placement of
   the reflux treatment device attached to the stomach wall.
30 After the inflatable device 10 has been inflated, partly or fully, the inlet port 1Ob (not
   shown in Figs. 48h and 48i) of the reflux treatment device 10, is sealed and the
   instrument 600 is retracted from the hole 12b, which is subsequently closed in some
   suitable way, such as by means of the instrument 600. The instrument is then removed
   from the stomach 600 and the inflatable device 10 in its inflated or expanded state is

                                                     72
 5 invaginated by a stomach wall portion of the patient on the outside of the stomach wall.
   During one or more of the above described steps, the stomach may be inflated with gas,
   preferably by means of the gastroscopic instrument.
   The reflux treatment device 10 described above with reference to Figs. 48a-i has been
   described as an inflatable reflux treatment device. It will be appreciated that is also can be
10 an elastic reflux treatment device with an elasticity allowing compression so as to be
   inserted into a gastroscopic instrument and which expands to an expanded state after
   leaving the instrument.
   The apparatus for treating reflux can have the additional functionality of treating obsesity.
   In such an embodiment, the reflux treatment device may be a volume filling device that
15 fills a volume of the stomach and thereby creating satiety. An embodiment having this
   function is shown in Fig. 49, wherein a combined reflux treatment device and obesity
   treatment device 310 is invaginated in the stomach wall close to and at least partially
   above the patient's cardia 14 when the patient is in a standing position and is fixed to a
   position above the cardia area 14c by a fixation, such as sutures or staples 22. For example a
20 direct or indirect fixation to the diaphragm muscle or associated muscles may be provided.
   As an alternative a direct or indirect fixation to the esophagus above and close to the angle of
   His can be provided. In this alternative embodiment, the combined device 310 rests-in a
   position against stomach wall of the fundus when implanted and which also fills a volume
   above the cardia area 14c between the cardia and the diaphragm muscle so that the cardia
25 is prevented from slipping up into the thorax cavity, whereby reflux disease is prevented.
   Such a combined device 310 may be used for keeping electronics and/or an energy source
   and/or hydraulic fluid. Hydraulic fluid from that device may be distributed to
   25 several smaller inflatable device areas to vary the stretching area from time to time
   avoiding any possible more permanent stretching effect of the stomach wall. Even
30 mechanically several stretching areas may be used.
   Combination reflux treatment device - stretching device
   In an alternative embodiment, which is shown in Fig. 50, the volume of an inflatable
   reflux treatment device 310 may be in fluid connection with one or more preferably
   smaller inflatable devices or chambers 10b. These chambers are adapted to communicate

                                                  73
 5 with fluid or air being moved between the chambers.
   Thus, the large chamber 310 is adapted to, with its main volume to be a reflux treatment
   device for reducing the size of the food cavity and for treating reflux disease and the one
   or several small chambers are adapted to function as the inflatable devices to treat
   obesity, wherein the main chamber is adapted to communicate with fluid or air to the
10 small chambers causing a stretching effect in the stomach wall thereby further treating
   obesity.
   Fig 51 show an embodiment with a combination of a volume filling device invaginated in
   the central or lower portion of the stomach and a stretching device invaginated in the
   upper portion or fundus of the patient's stomach. These two devices serve.to treat obesity.
15 The volume filling device 399 fills a volume of the stomach creating satiety. The
   stretching device stretches the wall of the stomach. This stretches the tissue setting off a
   endogenous signaling that creates satiety. This mimics the stretching effect of filling the
   stomach with food. Thus, in Fig. 51 there is shown an adjustable volume filling device
   399, which is invaginated in the stomach wall of a patient's stomach 312. Additionally, an
20 adjustable stretching device 350 with the previously described function is invaginated in
   the stomach fundus wall of the patient. It is preferred that the volume filling device 399 is
   substantially larger than the stretching device 350.
   The volume filling device 399 and the stretching device 350 can be adapted to treat
   reflux. In one embodiment, the volume filling device and the stretching device are
25 positioned to prevent the cardia 14 from slipping upwards trough the opening of the hernia
    18a to a position above the diaphragm 18.
   The volume filling device 399 and the stretching device 350 are in fluid communication
   with each other via a first fluid tube 352, in which a pump 354 is provided. The pump
   354 is under the control from an energy transforming device 330, which is adapted to
30 supply the pump 350 with energy via a power supply line 356. The energy transforming
   device 330 is also connected to a sensor 319 provided in the esophagus of the patient so
   that food intake can be detected.
   The reflux treatment device 10 and the stretching device 350 are also in fluid
   communication with each other via a second fluid tube 358, which preferably has a

                                                  74
 5 smaller cross-sectional area than the first fluid tube 352.
   The operation of this arrangement is as follows. The volume filling device 399 functions
   as in the- above described embodiments, i.e., it reduces the size of the food cavity of the
   patient's stomach 12. Additionally, when the stretching device 350 is enlarged by
   pumping fluid from the volume filling device 10 and to the stretching device 350 by
10 means of the pump 354, the stomach fundus wall is stretched, creating a feeling of satiety
   for the patient. Thus, for example when food intake is detected by means of the sensor
   319, fluid is automatically pumped into the stretching device 350 to increase the feeling of
   satiety and thereby limit the foodintake.
   When fluid has been injected into the stretching device 350, the internal pressure therein
15 is higher than the internal pressure in the reflux treatment device 399. This difference in
   pressure will create a flow of fluid in the second, preferably narrower tube 358 from the
   stretching device 350 to the reflux treatment device 399. The flow rate will be determined
   by among other things the difference in pressure and the cross-sectional area of the second
   tube 358. It is preferred that the second tube is so dimensioned, that the pressures in the
20 volume filing device 399 and the stretching device 350 will return to equilibrium after 3
   hours after fluid has been injected into the stretching device 350 to create the feeling of
   satiety.
   In this embodiment, the function of the second tube 358 is to allow fluid to return from
   the stretching device 350 to the volume filling device 399. It will be appreciated that this
25 function also can be performed by the pump 354 in the first tube 352 and that the second
   tube 358 then can be omitted.
   Method for placing an reflux treatment device on the inside of the stomach wall:
   In the following a method and an instrument for placing a reflux treatment device on the
   inside of the stomach wall will be described.
30 The invagination instrument described in Fig. 52a-1 generally designated 630, comprises
   an elongated tube member 632 similar to the elongated member 607 described above with
   reference to Figs. 48a-i. Thus, it can be connected to a control unit 606, see Fig. 48a. The
   invagination instrument 630 further comprises a perforated suction portion 634, which
   preferably is elongated. The suction portion 634 exhibits a plurality of small holes 636,

                                                  75
 5 into which air will be sucked by providing suction in the tube member 632. This suction
   effect will be used to create a "pocket" or "pouch" in a part of a stomach wall, generally
   designated 12a.
   In other words, when the tip of the suction portion 634 is pressed against the stomach
   wall 12a, see Fig. 52a, a small recess will be formed therein. When the suction portion
10 634 is further pressed against the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 52b, a larger recess will be
   formed. The part of the stomach wall 12a that forms the recess will, due to the suction
   effect, adhere to the suction portion 634 of the invagination instrument 630. As the
   suction portion 634 is further pressed into the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 52c, a deeper
   recess will be formed until the entire suction portion 634 is embedded in the recess, see
15 Fig. 18d.
   The rim of.the recess will at this stage be fixated by means of fixation elements 638 and
   the suction portion be removed from the instrument, see Fig. 52e. A compressed elastic
   reflux treatment device 10 will subsequently be inserted into the recess, see Fig. 52f, for
   example in the way described above with reference to Fig. 47d. This compressed reflux
20 treatment device is then expanded to its final shape, see Fig. 52h, where after the pouch is
   sealed by suturing or stapling by means of the fixations elements, see Fig. 52i.
   All the alternatives described above with reference to Figs. 1-51 are also applicable to the
   embodiment described with reference to Figs. 52a- 1, i.e., to the embodiment where the
   reflux treatment device is invaginated on the inside of the stomach wall.
25 Figs 53 a-c show an instrument for creating an invagiation of the wall of the stomach that
   can either be placed on the outside of the wall of the stomach or on the inside of the wall
   of the stomach depending if the reflux treatment device is place on the inside or the
   outside of the wall. The instrument uses vacuum to such a portion of the wall of the
   stomach into the cup of the instrument.
30 It has been described how the reflux treatment device 10 is invaginated in the stomach
   wall by means of a gastroscopic instrument. The gastroscopic instrument can be used for
   either placing the reflux treatment device on the outside of the wall of the stomach as
   shown in figure IA or on the inside of the stomach as shown in figure 2A. In the latter
   case, the instruments will be used to make an incision in the wall of the stomach from the
35 inside of the stomach.

                                                 76
 5 It will be appreciated that abdominal operation methods can be used as well. Such
   methods will now be described in with reference to Figs. 54-55.In figure 54 it is shown
   how the stomach is accessed by creating an incision 380 n the abdomen of the patient. In
   figure 55 it is shown how an instrument 381 is inserted into the abdomen of the patient.
   Any of the instruments and methods described can be selected an adapted for this
10 purpose. Thus, for example, the reflux treatment device can be placed on the outside of
   the stomach as shown in figure IA or on the inside as shown in figure 2A. In the later case
   an incision is made in the wall of the stomach.
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
15 general knowledge in the field.
   This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
   2015203004, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by reference in
   its entirety.

                                           77
CLAIMS
    1. An apparatus for use in a surgical procedure for restricting the
movement of the cardiac notch of a patient, wherein the apparatus is adapted to:
              be inserted into the patient's body by an insertion device of an
instrument,
              be invaginated by the fungus wall of the patient, and
              be positioned, when implanted and in function, mainly on the sinister
side of the esophagus, wherein the apparatus:
              comprises a bio-compatible body for resting against the fungus wall,
              has a circumference of at least 15mm, when implanted and in
function,
              has a volume of at least 125 mm3, and wherein
the apparatus is adapted to be secured, indirectly or directly, to the esophagus,
thereby restricting the movement of the cardiac notch of the patient, preventing
the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's
thorax, maintaining the supporting pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter
muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen, and thereby treating reflux disease.
    2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is
adapted to rest against the outside of the stomach wall without restricting the food
passage in the food passageway.
    3. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 -2, wherein the
apparatus is adapted to rest against the outside of the stomach wall without
encircling the esophagus.
    4. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
         implantable apparatus is made from a homogenous material.

                                           78
    5. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising an implantable first fixation device that, when implanted in the patient,
secures the apparatus in a position that restricts the movement of the cardiac notch
of the stomach towards the patient's diaphragm, with the outer surface of the
apparatus substantially contacting the patient's stomach fungus wall.
    6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the first
fixation device comprises a tissue growth promoting structure for long term
attachment of the apparatus to the stomach wall without invagination.
    7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the tissue growth promoting
structure comprises a net like structure.
    8. The apparatus according to any one of claims 5 -7, further comprising a
second fixation device that, when implanted in the patient with the apparatus,
secures, indirectly or directly, the apparatus to the esophagus close to the patient's
angle of His.
    9. The apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising a third fixation
device that, when implanted in the patient with the apparatus, secures, indirectly or
directly, the apparatus to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles.
    10. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
apparatus is non-adjustable from outside the patient's body when implanted in the
patient.
    11. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
 implantable apparatus is substantially egg shaped.
    12. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the

                                          79
implantable apparatus is substantially spherically shaped.
    13. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus is adapted to be placed inside the patient's stomach wall by
means of a gastroscope or intraluminar instrument.
    14. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus is adapted to be placed on the outside of the patient's
stomach.
    15. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus is changeable to assume a slender form having a smaller
diameter than that of a trocar for laparoscopic use, whereby the implantable
apparatus, when changed to said slender form, can be pushed or pulled through the
trocar.
    16. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus comprises a flexible outer wall defining a fluid filled
chamber, allowing the implantable apparatus to pass through a trocar for
laparoscopic use.
    17. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the fluid comprises a gel.
    18. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus comprises an elastic compressible material, allowing the
implantable apparatus to pass through a trocar for laparoscopic use.
    19. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus is made of a material softer than 25 shore.

                                          80
    20. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus is made of a material softer than 15 shore.
    21. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
implantable apparatus comprises at least one holding device adapted to be used for
pushing or pulling the implantable apparatus through a trocar for laparoscopic use.
    22. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the holding device is adapted
to hold a thread or band inserted through the holding device.
    23. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the implantable movement
restriction device comprises an outer wall and the holding device is at least partly
placed inside the outer wall of the implantable apparatus.
    24. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
apparatus comprises a sunken ridge.
    25. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
apparatus has a rigid outer wall.
    26. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
apparatus has an elastic outer wall.
    27. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
apparatus has a flexible outer wall.
    28. The apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the rigid outer wall is rigid
enough to maintain non-deformed when subject to forces created by stomach
movements.
    29. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the

                                         81
volume of the apparatus is non-invasively adjustable.
    30. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising an injection port adapted to be connected to an inflatable chamber of
the apparatus to adjust the volume of the inflatable chamber.
    31. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least
a part of the apparatus is made of a material which isdestructible by stomach acid.
    32. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least
a part of the apparatus is made of a material which is not destructible by the
stomach acid.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
