                                            ABSTRACT
       The subject invention is directed to a composition comprising primed connective tissue cells
and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof.

                                     PRIMED CELL THERAPY
             This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
<removed-apn>, which is a divisional of 2009324832, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       Field of the Invention:
[0002]       The present invention relates to using cells primed by incubation with a cytokine for
somatic cell therapy.
[0003]       Brief Description of the Related Art:
[0004]        In the orthopedic field, degenerative arthritis or osteoarthritis is the most frequently
encountered disease associated with cartilage damage. Almost every joint in the body, such as the
knee, the hip, the shoulder, and even the wrist, is affected. The pathogenesis of this disease is the
degeneration of hyaline articular cartilage (Mankin et al., J Bone Joint Surg, 52A: 460-466, 1982).
The hyaline cartilage of the joint becomes deformed, fibrillated, and eventually excavated. If the
degenerated cartilage could somehow be regenerated, most patients would be able to enjoy their
lives without debilitating pain.
[0005]       Traditional routes of drug delivery, such as oral, intravenous or intramuscular
administration, to carry the drug to the joint are inefficient. The half-life of drugs injected intra
articularly is generally short. Another disadvantage of intra-articular injection of drugs is that
frequent repeated injections are necessary to obtain acceptable drug levels at the joint spaces for
treating a chronic condition such as arthritis. Because therapeutic agents heretofore could not be
selectively targeted to joints, it was necessary to expose the mammalian host to systemically high
concentrations of drugs in order to achieve a sustained, intra-articular therapeutic dose. Exposure of
non-target organs in this manner exacerbated the tendency of anti-arthritis drugs to produce serious
side effects, such as gastrointestinal upset and changes in the hematological, cardiovascular, hepatic
and renal systems of the mammalian host.
[0006]       In the orthopedic field, some cytokines have been considered as candidates for the
treatment of orthopedic diseases. Bone morphogenic protein has been considered to be an effective
stimulator of bone formation (Ozkaynak et al., EMBO J, 9:2085-2093, 1990; Sampath and Rueger,
Complications in Ortho, 101-107,        1994), and TGF-B has been reported as a stimulator of
osteogenesis and chondrogenesis (Joyce et al., J Cell Biology, 110:2195-2207, 1990).
[00071       Transforming growth factor-     P (TGF-P) is considered to be a multifunctional cytokine
                                                    1

growth, differentiation and extracellular matrix protein synthesis (Madri et al., J Cell Biology, 106:
1375-1384, 1988). TGF-P inhibits the growth of epithelial cells and osteoclast-like cells in vitro
(Chenu et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci, 85: 5683-5687, 1988), but it stimulates enchondral ossification
and eventually bone formation in vivo (Critchlow et al., Bone, 521-527, 1995; Lind et al., A Orthop
Scand, 64(5): 553-556, 1993; and Matsumoto et al., In vivo, 8: 215-220, 1994). TGF-3-induced
bone formation is mediated by its stimulation of the subperiosteal pluripotential cells, which
eventually differentiate into cartilage-forming cells (Joyce et al., J Cell Biology, 110: 2195-2207,
1990; and Miettinen et al., J Cell Biology, 127-6: 2021-2036, 1994).
[0008] The biological effect of TGF-3 in orthopedics has been reported (Andrew et al., Calcif Tissue
In. 52: 74-78, 1993; Borque et al., Int J Dev Biol., 37:573-579, 1993; Carrington et al., J Cell
Biology, 107: 1969-1975, 1988; Lind et al., A Orthop Scand. 64(5):553-556, 1993; Matsumoto et
al., In vivo, 8:215-220, 1994). In mouse embryos, staining shows that TGF-p is closely associated
with tissues derived from the mesenchyme, such as connective tissue, cartilage and bone. In addition
to embryologic findings, TGF-p is present at the site of bone formation and cartilage formation. It
can also enhance fracture healing in rabbit tibiae. Recently, the therapeutic value of TGF-p has been
reported (Critchlow et al., Bone, 521-527, 1995; and Lind et al., A Orthop Scand, 64(5): 553-556,
1993), but its short- term effects and high cost have limited wide clinical application. [0009] During
their multiplication in culture through repeated passaging, chondrocytes inevitably lose their ability
to produce cartilaginous matrix such as glycosaminoglycan (GAG) and type II collagen (COL2) and
begin producing type I collagen (COLl), which is called dedifferentiation. It has long been known
that human articular chondrocytes can undergo only a limited number of cell divisions in vitro and
that their proliferative potential decreases with age.
[0010] Applicants have demonstrated that the conditions of expansion of human articular
chondrocytes can modulate the cell's ability to re-enter the differentiation program and to increase
growth potential in vitro.
[0011] United States Patents 5,858,355 and 5,766,585 disclose making a viral or plasmid construct
of the IRAP (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein) gene; transfecting synovial cells (5,858,355)
and bone marrow cells (5,766,585) with the construct; and injecting the transfected cells into a
rabbit joint, but there is no disclosure of using primed chondrocyte to regenerate connective tissue.
[0012]       United States Patents 5,846,931 and 5,700,774 disclose injecting a composition that
includes a bone morphogenesis protein (BMP), which belongs to the TGF                P  "superfamily",
together with a truncated parathyroid hormone related peptide to effect the maintenance of
                                                     2

cartilaginous tissue formation, and induction of cartilaginous tissue. However, there is no
disclosure of a gene therapy method using the BMP gene, nor the use of primed chondrocytes.
[0013]       United States Patent 5,842,477 discloses implanting a combination of a scaffolding,
periosteal/perichondrial tissue, and stromal cells, including chondrocytes, to a cartilage defected
area. Since this patent disclosure requires that all three of these elements be present in the
implanted system, the reference fails to disclose or suggest the simple cell therapy method of
the    invention   which    does    not   require   the implantation   of  the  scaffolding   or  the
periosteal/perichondrial tissue.
[0014]       In spite of these prior art disclosures, there remains a very real and substantial need
for a more effective and potent treatment method to not only regenerate connective tissue in the
mammalian host, but also better and more effective somatic cell gene therapy methods as well.
[0014a]      Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior
art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other
pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]       The present invention has met the herein before described need.
[0016]       In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a cytokine or a combination of
cytokines, which induce re-differentiation of chondrocytes that have lost their ability to produce
cartilaginous matrix. The invention relates to a cytokine which can facilitate cell growth of
primary chondrocyte in vitro. In addition, cartilage tissue may be formed using re- differentiated
chondrocyte without employing a three-dimensional matrix. Applicants have also discovered
that sequential treatment of cells with the growth and re-differentiation facilitating cytokine
maximizes cartilage tissue regeneration.
[00171       In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a composition comprising primed
connective tissue cells and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof. The cells may be
fibroblasts, chondrocytes or fibroblastic chondrocytes. The cells may be human cells. The cells
may be injectable. The cells may be contained in a storage container for storing cells at a
temperature of about -70'C to about -196'C.
[0018]       In another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of stimulating regeneration of
cartilage at a target site in a mammal comprising: (i) incubating a connective tissue cell
                                                      3

with a composition comprising cytokine to create a primed cell; (ii) optionally separating the
cytokine from the connective tissue cell; and (iii) injecting a therapeutically effective amount
of the primed cell into a target joint site where cartilage is desired to be generated, wherein
endogenously existing forms of the connective tissue cells are decreased at the target site, and
wherein the presence of the primed cells at the target site stimulates regeneration of cartilage.
The connective tissue cells may be fibroblasts, chondrocytes or fibroblastic chondrocytes.
The chondrocytes may be primary human chondrocytes. The cytokine may be a member
belonging to the TGF-P superfamily. The connective cells may be incubated for about 1 hr to
about 2 weeks to create the primed cells. The cytokine may be TGF-. The cytokine may be
present in an amount of at least 1 ng/ml.
[0019]       In another aspect, the invention is directed to a second population of mammalian
cells transfected or transduced with a gene that is sought to be expressed in addition to the
primed cells.
[0020]       In still another aspect, the invention is directed to a mixed cell composition,
comprising hyaline cartilage-generating effective amount of: (a) a first population of primed
chondrocytes or fibroblast; (b) a second population of fibroblast or chondrocyte cells that
have been transfected or transduced with a gene encoding              a member of the TGF-p
superfamily; and (c) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof. The gene may be TGF-$ 1,
TGF-$2, TGF-$3, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, BMP-7 or BMP-9. In this
composition, the ratio of the first population of primed cells to the second population of
fibroblast or chondrocyte cells that have been transfected or transduced with a gene encoding
a member of the TGF-P superfamily may be about 1-20 to 1; from about 1-10 to 1; or from
about 1-3 to 1. The second population of cells transfected or transduced with a gene may be
irradiated. In the inventive composition, the first population of cells and the second
population of cells may be derived from the same source organism or different source
organisms.
[0021]       In yet another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of generating a mixed
cell composition comprising: (A) creating a first population of cells comprising the steps of :
(i) incubating a connective tissue cell with a composition comprising cytokine to create a first
population of primed cells, and (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the connective
tissue cell; (B) creating a second population of cells comprising the steps of: (i) generating a
recombinant vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding the therapeutic protein operatively
linked to a promoter, (ii) transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said
                                                 4

recombinant vector to create the second population of cells; and (C) mixing the first and
second population of cells together to result in the mixed cell composition.
[0022]       In yet another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of stimulating
regeneration of cartilage at a target site in a mammal comprising: (A) creating a first
population of cells comprising the steps of: (i) incubating a connective tissue cell with a
composition comprising a cytokine to create a first population of primed cells, and (ii)
optionally separating the cytokine from the connective tissue cell; (B) creating a second
population of cells comprising the steps of: (i) generating a recombinant vector comprising a
DNA sequence encoding the therapeutic protein operatively linked to a promoter, (ii)
transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said recombinant vector to
create the second population of cells; and (C) injecting a therapeutically effective amount of a
mixture of the first and second population of cells into a target joint site where cartilage is
desired to be generated, wherein endogenously existing forms of the connective tissue cells
are decreased at the target site, and wherein the presence of the mixture of cells at the target
site stimulates regeneration of cartilage. In this method, the gene may be TGF-$31, TGF-$2,
TGF-3, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, or BMP-7. In this method, the first and
second population of cells may be syngeneic, allogeneic, or xenogeneic with respect to the
host recipient. The recombinant vector may be a viral vector or plasmid. The cells may be
stored optionally in a cryopreservative prior to injection.
[0023]       Yet in another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of treating
osteoarthritis comprising: (A) creating a first population of cells comprising the steps of: (i)
incubating a connective tissue cell with a composition including cytokine to create a first
population of primed cells; and (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the connective
tissue cell; (B) creating a second population of cells comprising the steps of: (i) generating a
recombinant vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding the therapeutic protein operatively
linked to a promoter; (ii) transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said
recombinant vector to create the second population of cells; and (C) injecting a
therapeutically effective amount of a mixture of the first and second population of cells and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof that is not a non-living three dimensional
structure into a joint space of a mammal into a target joint site where cartilage is desired to be
generated, wherein endogenously existing forms of the connective tissue cells are decreased
at the target site, and wherein the presence of the mixture of cells at the target site stimulates
regeneration of cartilage to treat osteoarthritis.
                                                   5

[0024]       In still another embodiment, the invention is directed to a method of decreasing
doubling time of connective tissue cell comprising incubating a connective tissue cell with a
composition including a cytokine to create a primed cell. The connective tissue cells may be
fibroblasts, chondrocytes or fibroblastic chondrocytes. The chondrocytes may be primary
human chondrocytes. The cytokine may be a member belonging to the TGF-P superfamily.
The cells may be incubated for about 1 hr to about 2 weeks with the cytokine to create the
primed cell. The doubling time may be about half of a control unincubated cell. The cytokine
may be a combination of FGF and TGFbetal. The composition may include 3,3',5-Triiodo
L-thyronine.
[0025]       These and other objects of the invention will be more fully understood from the
following description of the invention, the referenced drawings attached hereto and the
claims appended hereto.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]       The present invention will become more fully understood from the detailed
description given herein below, and the accompanying drawings which are given by way of
illustration only, and thus are not imitative of the present invention, and wherein;
[0027]       Figure 1 shows results of Alcian Blue staining of cells at various times (weeks)
after incubating fibroblastic chondrocytes with TGF 1. 1. 18hr incubation with 10 ng/mL
TGF1; 2. 18hr incubation with 50 ng/mL TGF1; 3. 6hr incubation with 10 ng/mL TGF 1;
4. 6hr incubation with 50 ng/mL TGFp1; 5. Incubation with lng/mL TGFP1; 6. Incubation
with lOng/mL TGF1 without separation out of the cytokine; 7. Untreated control
fibroblastic chondrocytes.
[0028]       Figure 2 shows cell growth rate in 2-dimensional culture with cytokine treatment.
Cells cultured in T-75 flasks from each cytokine treatment group were harvested at
confluence and counted to determine the cell growth rate from initial cell seeding numbers.
[0029]       Figure 3 shows micromass formation. Micromasses were plated at 1.5 x 105
cells/20p1/mass directly on to the surface of culture plates without the presence of culture
media. Cells were incubated for 1.5 hours for adequate cell attachment to occur and
0.5mL/well of complete growth medium was added. Cells were cultured for a period of 7
days with one complete change of growth media at 3-4 days.             At the end of the 7 day
incubation period, micromasses were washed twice with lmL of dPBS/well and fixed with
10% formalin solution for 30 minutes. Fixing solution was removed and masses were stained
                                                 6

with 500uL/well of 1.0% Alcian Blue 8GX in IN HCI overnight in 4'C. Alcian Blue staining
indicates   the distribution of glycosaminoglycans         (GAGs) in micromass culture of
chondrocytes exposed to different cytokine conditions
[0030]      Figure 4     shows    GAG quantification      of micromasses.    Quantification   of
glycosaminoglycans can be performed through the addition of guanidine hydrochloride (Gu
HCI) which precipitates the Alcian Blue bound GAG chains of proteoglycan molecules.
Alcian blue stained micromasses were incubated with 250pl/well of 4M Gu-HCl. When most
of the stain had been extracted from the micromasses, the solution was removed and the
optical density was measured at 560 nm.
[0031]      Figure 5 shows cell morphology in 2-dimensional culture with cytokine treatment.
Digital images of chondrocyte growth were taken at a time point (3 days after seeding)
displaying approximately 30-50% confluence of cells. Observations in cell distribution, cell
size, and morphology vary between cytokine treatment groups.           Images were taken at a
magnifcation of 100x.
[0032]      Figures 6 shows cell morphology in 2-dimensional culture with cytokine
treatment. Digital images of chondrocyte growth were taken at a time point (8 days after
seeding) displaying approximately 80-100% confluence of cells just prior to the harvest of
cells for RNA preparation, protein extraction, and micromass culture. Images were taken at a
magnification of 100x.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0033]      As used herein, the term "biologically active" in reference to a nucleic acid,
protein, protein fragment or derivative thereof is defined as an ability of the nucleic acid or
amino acid sequence to mimic a known biological function elicited by the wild type form of
the nucleic acid or protein.
[0034]      As used herein, the term "connective tissue" is any tissue that connects and
supports other tissues or organs, and includes but is not limited to a ligament, a cartilage, a
tendon, a bone, and a synovium of a mammalian host.
[0035]      As used herein, the terms "connective tissue cell" and "cell of a connective tissue"
include cells that are found in the connective tissue, such as fibroblasts, cartilage cells
(chondrocytes),    and   bone cells     (osteoblasts/osteocytes), which    secrete  collagenous
extracellular matrix, as well as fat cells (adipocytes) and smooth muscle cells. Preferably, the
connective tissue cells are fibroblasts, cartilage cells, and bone cells. It will be recognized
                                                 7

that the invention can be practiced with a mixed culture of connective tissue cells, as well as
cells of a single type.     It is also recognized that the tissue cells may be pretreated with
chemical compounds or radiation before injecting them into the joint space so that the cells
stably express the gene of interest within the host organism. Preferably, the connective tissue
cell does not cause a negative immune response when injected into the host organism. It is
understood that allogeneic cells may be used in this regard, as well as autologous cells for
cell-mediated gene therapy or somatic cell therapy.
 [0036]      As used herein, "connective tissue cell line" includes a plurality of connective
tissue cells originating from a common parent cell.
 [0037]      As used herein, "decrease" of cells refers to a lessening of a population of cells
compared with the amount that would normally be found at the site. This may mean a
percentage reduction of a population of cells, such as at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% compared with the normal cell population at the locus, or may mean
damage or depletion of the cells at the locus.
 [0038]      As used herein, "histocompatibility" of a donor cell and recipient host refers to
their sharing of a sufficient number of histocompatibility agents so that a transplantation is
accepted and remains functional in the host mammal. In particular, the donor and recipient
pair should be matched for Human Leukocyte Antigens (HLA), such as HLA type A, B, and
C (Class I) and HLA type DR (Class II).
 [0039]      As used herein, "hyaline cartilage" refers to the connective tissue covering the
joint surface.    By way of example only, hyaline cartilage includes, but is not limited to,
articular cartilage, costal cartilage, and nose cartilage.
 [0040]      In particular, hyaline cartilage is known to be self-renewing, responds to
alterations, and provides stable movement with less friction. Hyaline cartilage found even
within the same joint or among joints varies in thickness, cell density, matrix composition
and mechanical properties, yet retains the same general structure and function. Some of the
functions of hyaline cartilage include surprising stiffness to compression, resilience, and
exceptional ability to distribute weight loads, ability to minimize peak stress on subchondral
bone, and great durability.
 [0041]      Grossly and histologically, hyaline cartilage appears as a slick, firm surface that
resists deformation. The extracellular matrix of the cartilage comprises chondrocytes, but
lacks blood vessels, lymphatic vessels or nerves. An elaborate, highly ordered structure that
maintains interaction between chondrocytes and the matrix serves to maintain the structure
and function of the hyaline cartilage, while maintaining a low level of metabolic activity.
                                                  8

The reference O'Driscoll, J. Bone Joint Surg., 80A: 1795-1812, 1998 describes the structure
and function of hyaline cartilage in detail, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
[0042]       As used herein, "injectable" composition refers to a composition that excludes
various three-dimensional scaffold, framework, mesh or felt structure, which may be made of
any material or shape that allows cells to attach to it and allows cells to grow in more than
one layer, and which structure is generally implanted, and not injected. In one embodiment,
the injection method of the invention is typically carried out by a syringe. However, any
mode of injecting the composition of interest may be used. For instance, catheters, sprayers,
or temperature dependent polymer gels also may be used.
[0043]       As used herein, the term "mammalian host" includes members of the animal
kingdom including but not limited to human beings.
[0044]       As used herein, "mixed cell" or a "mixture of cells" or "cell mixture" refers to the
combination of a plurality of cells that include a population of cells that are transfected or
transduced with a gene of interest that is expressed, and at least one other population of cells
that includes primed cells.
[0045]       In one embodiment of the invention, mixed cells may refer to the combination of a
plurality of connective tissue cells that include cells that have been transfected or transduced
with a gene or DNA encoding a member of the transforming growth factor        P superfamily  and
primed cells that have not been transfected or transduced with a gene encoding a member of
the transforming growth factor j superfamily. Typically, the ratio of primed cells that have
not been transfected or transduced with a gene encoding a member of the transforming
growth factor $ superfamily to cells that have been transfected or transduced with a TGF
superfamily gene may be in the range of about 3-20 to 1. The range may include about 3-10
to 1. In particular, the range may be about 10 to 1 in terms of the number of cells. However, it
is understood that the ratio of these cells should not be necessarily fixed to any particular
range so long as the combination of these cells is effective to produce hyaline cartilage in
partially and fully defected joints.
[0046]       As used herein, the term "patient" includes members of the animal kingdom
including but not limited to human beings.
[0047]       As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to any carrier that is
known in the art to promote the efficiency of transport of the composition of the invention
and prolong the effectiveness of the composition.
                                                 9

[0048]       As used herein, the term "primed" cell refers to cells that that have been activated
or changed to express certain genes.
[0049]       As used herein, "somatic cell" or "cell" in general refers to the cell of the body
other than egg or sperm.
[0050]       As used herein, "stored" cells refer to a composition of primed cells of a
population of mixed cells that include the primed cells that have been either stored
individually or together before they are administered to the joint space. The cells may be
stored in a refrigeration unit. Alternatively, the cells may be frozen at about -70 to about
196C in a liquid nitrogen tank or in an equivalent storage unit so that the cells are preserved
for later administration into the joint space. The cells may be thawed using known protocols.
The duration of freezing and thawing may be carried out by any number of ways, so long as
the viability and potency of the cells are optimized.
[0051]       As used herein, the terms "transfection" and "transduction" are mentioned as
particular methods of transferring the DNA to the host cell and its subsequent integration into
the recipient cell's chromosomal DNA. As the invention is practiced, any method of
transferring a foreign DNA to a host cell may be used, including nonviral or viral gene
transfer methods, so long as a foreign gene is introduced into the host cell and the foreign
gene is stably expressed in the host cell. Thus, as used herein, the term "transfected or
transduced" includes any method of gene delivery to the cells, such as calcium phosphate
precipitation, DEAE dextran, electroporation, liposome, viral mediation and so on.
[0052]       As used herein, the "transforming growth factor-$ (TGF-$) superfamily"
encompasses a group of structurally related proteins, which affect a wide range of
differentiation processes during embryonic development.        The family includes, MUllerian
inhibiting substance (MIS), which is required for normal male sex development (Behringer,
et al., Nature, 345:167, 1990), Drosophila decapentaplegic (DPP) gene product, which is
required for dorsal-ventral axis formation and morphogenesis of the imaginal disks (Padgett,
et al., Nature, 325:81-84, 1987), the Xenopus Vg-1 gene product, which localizes to the
vegetal pole of eggs (Weeks, et al., Cell, 51:861-867, 1987), the activins (Mason, et al.,
Biochem, Biophys. Res. Commun., 135:957-964, 1986), which can induce the formation of
mesoderm and anterior structures in Xenopus embryos (Thomsen, et al., Cell, 63:485, 1990),
and the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP's, such as BMP-2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, osteogenin,
OP-1) which can induce de novo cartilage and bone formation (Sampath, et al., J. Biol.
Chem., 265:13198, 1990). The TGF- gene products can influence a variety of differentiation
                                                10

processes, including adipogenesis, myogenesis, chondrogenesis, hematopoiesis, and epithelial
cell differentiation. For a review, see Massague, Cell 49:437, 1987, which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
[0053]      The proteins of the TGF-3 family are initially synthesized as a large precursor
protein, which subsequently undergoes proteolytic cleavage at a cluster of basic residues
approximately 110-140 amino acids from the C-terminus. The C-terminal regions of the
proteins are all structurally related and the different family members can be classified into
distinct subgroups based on the extent of their homology. Although the homologies within
particular subgroups range from 70% to 90% amino acid sequence identity, the homologies
between subgroups are significantly lower, generally ranging from only 20% to 50%. In each
case, the active species appears to be a disulfide-linked dimer of C-terminal fragments. For
most of the family members that have been studied, the homodimeric species has been found
to be biologically active, but for other family members, like the inhibins (Ung, et al., Nature,
321:779, 1986) and the TGF-j's (Cheifetz, et al., Cell, 48:409, 1987), heterodimers have also
been detected, and these appear to have different biological properties than the respective
homodimers.
[0054]      Members of the superfamily of TGF-P genes include TGF-3, TGF-2, TGF-P4
(chicken), TGF-1, TGF-5 (Xenopus), BMP-2, BMP-4, Drosophila DPP, BMP-5, BMP-6,
Vgrl, OP-1/BMP-7, Drosophila 60A, GDF-1, Xenopus Vgf, BMP-3, Inhibin-A, Inhibin
OB, Inhibin-a, and MIS.       These genes are discussed in Massague, Ann. Rev. Biochem.
67:753-791, 1998, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0055]      Preferably, a member of the superfamily of TGF-p genes is TGF-$ or BMP. More
preferably, the member is TGF-1, TGF-2, TGF-3, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5,
BMP-6, or BMP-7. Most preferably, the member is human or porcine TGF-$1 or BMP-2.
[0056]      Primed Cell Therapy
[0057]      The present invention encompasses administering primed cells to a site in need
thereof in a mammal to produce collagen or hyaline cartilage. Primed cells are typically
connective tissue cells, and include chondrocytes or fibroblasts.
[0058]      By way of example, when a population of primary chondrocytes are passaged
about 3 or 4 times, their morphology typically changes to fibroblastic chondrocytes. As
primary chondrocytes are passaged, they begin to lose some of their chondrocytic
characteristics and begin to take on the characteristics of fibroblastic chondrocytes. The
inventors have discovered that when these fibroblastic chondrocytes are incubated or
                                                11

"primed" with a cytokine such as a protein from the TGF-$3 superfamily, the cells regain their
chondrocytic characteristics, which include production of collagen.
[0059]       Such primed cells include fibroblastic chondrocytes, which have been incubated
with TGF 1, and as a result have reverted to type II collagen producing chondrocytes. An
advantage of using primed cells in the treatment of osteoarthritis or regeneration of cartilage
is the ease of creating useable chondrocytes for introduction into joints or other places in the
body where cartilage is desired to be generated such as in the intervertebral disc in the spine
for production of collagen and otherwise maintenance of the cartilaginous matrix.
[0060]       The cells may include without limitation primary cells or cells which have
undergone about one to twenty passages. The cells may be connective tissue cells. The cells
may include cells that have undergone a morphogenic change, wherein the priming causes
reversion to the characteristics of the original cell. The cells may include without limitation
chondrocytes, fibroblasts, or fibroblastic chondrocytes. Priming may occur by incubating the
cells for a period of at least 1 hr, preferably from 1 hr to two weeks; from 1 to 10 days, from
5 to 10 days or 5 to 7 days, with a cytokine, and then optionally separating the cytokine from
the cells and injecting the primed cells into a cartilaginous defect site of interest in order to
regenerate cartilage, preferably hyaline cartilage. In one aspect, the cytokine may be a
member of the superfamily of TGF-$. In particular, the cytokine may be TGF-$, and in
particular, TGF-$31.
[0061]       The cytokine may be present in the incubation mix in an amount of at least about
1 ng/ml, from about 1 to 1000 ng/ml, from about 1 to 750 ng/ml, from about 1 to 500 ng/ml,
from about 1 to 400 ng/ml, from about 1 to 300 ng/ml, from about 1 to 250 ng/ml, from about
1 to 200 ng/ml, from about 1 to 150 ng/ml, from about 1 to 100 ng/ml, from about 1 to 75
ng/ml, from about 1 to 50 ng/ml, from about 10 to 500 ng/ml, from about 10 to 400 ng/ml,
from about 10 to 300 ng/ml, from about 10 to 250 ng/ml, from about 10 to 200 ng/ml, from
about 10 to 150 ng/ml, from about 10 to 100 ng/ml, from about 10 to 75 ng/ml, from about 10
to 50 ng/ml, from about 15 to 500 ng/ml, from about 15 to 400 ng/ml, from about 15 to 300
ng/ml, from about 15 to 250 ng/ml, from about 15 to 200 ng/ml, from about 15 to 150 ng/ml,
from about 15 to 100 ng/ml, from about 15 to 75 ng/ml, from about 15 to 50 ng/ml, from
about 20 to 500 ng/ml, from about 20 to 400 ng/ml, from about 20 to 300 ng/ml, from about
20 to 250 ng/ml, from about 20 to 200 ng/ml, from about 20 to 150 ng/ml, from about 20 to
100 ng/ml, from about 20 to 75 ng/ml, from about 20 to 50 ng/ml, from about 25 to 500
ng/ml, from about 25 to 400 ng/ml, from about 25 to 300 ng/ml, from about 25 to 250 ng/ml,
                                                 12

from about 25 to 200 ng/ml, from about 25 to 150 ng/ml, from about 25 to 100 ng/ml, from
about 25 to 75 ng/ml, from about 25 to 50 ng/ml, from about 30 to 500 ng/ml, from about 30
to 400 ng/ml, from about 30 to 300 ng/ml, from about 30 to 250 ng/ml, from about 30 to 200
ng/ml, from about 30 to 150 ng/ml, from about 30 to 100 ng/ml, from about 30 to 75 ng/ml,
from about 30 to 50 ng/ml, from about 35 to 500 ng/ml, from about 35 to 400 ng/ml, from
about 35 to 300 ng/ml, from about 35 to 250 ng/ml, from about 35 to 200 ng/ml, from about
35 to 150 ng/ml, from about 35 to 100 ng/ml, from about 35 to 75 ng/ml, from about 35 to 50
ng/ml, from about 40 to 500 ng/ml, from about 40 to 400 ng/ml, from about 40 to 300 ng/ml,
from about 40 to 250 ng/ml, from about 40 to 200 ng/ml, from about 40 to 150 ng/ml, from
about 40 to 100 ng/ml, from about 40 to 75 ng/ml, or from about 40 to 50 ng/ml.
[0062]      One method of practicing the invention may include incubating the cells with a
cytokine for a certain length of time to create primed cells and optionally separating the
cytokine from the cells, and injecting the primed cells into the connective tissue defect site of
interest. Alternatively, the cells may be incubated with the cytokine of interest for a time and
the combination may be administered to the site of connective tissue defect without
separating out the cytokine.
[0063]      It is to be understood that while it is possible that substances such as a scaffolding
or a framework as well as various extraneous tissues may be implanted together in the primed
cell therapy protocol of the present invention, it is also possible that such scaffolding or tissue
not be included in the injection system of the invention. In a preferred embodiment, in the
inventive somatic cell therapy, the invention is directed to a simple method of injecting a
population of primed connective tissue cells to the joint space.
[0064]      It will be understood by the artisan of ordinary skill that the source of cells for
treating a human patient may be the patient's own connective tissue cells, such as autologous
fibroblast or chondrocyte cells, but that allogeneic cells as well as xenogeneic cells may also
be used without regard to the histocompatibility of the cells. Alternatively, in one
embodiment       of the    invention,   allogeneic   cells   may    be   used having     matching
histocompatibility to the mammalian host. To describe in further detail, the histocompatibility
of the donor and the patient are determined so that histocompatible cells are administered to
the mammalian host.
[0065]      Unexpectedly, the doubling time of the cytokine treated cells was decreased
compared with the untreated cells. See Figure 2. The life span of the treated cells also
increased. The treated cells survived longer and doubling time quicker than the untreated
cells. The treated cells proliferated for more than 8 passages in collagen coated and uncoated
                                                 13

flasks; however growth of the non-treated cells stopped at passage 7 (p7) in non-collagen
coated flasks. Regardless, the collagen coated flasks containing cells treated with FGF
TGFbetal showed strongest growth. There was no sign of the cells slowing down its growth
even after passage 8.
[0066]       After the cells were harvested from the collagen coated or non-coated flasks these
cells were transferred to multiwell plates to make micromass, which were stained directly
with Alcian stain.
[0067]       The doubling time of the primed cell may be decreased by a factor of about 0.8 to
about 0.2; from about 0.7 to about 0.3; from about 0.6 to about 0.4; or about 0.5. By a factor
of 0.5, it is meant that the doubling time of the cells incubated with cytokine is twice as fast
as unincubated control cells.
[0068]       In this regard, cytokines such as TGF-betal alone, TGF-beta3 alone, BMP2 and
insulin or BMP2-insulin and T3 together or FGF-TGF-betal combination result in significant
decrease in doubling time for the primed cells. Collagen coated and collagen uncoated flasks
also provide significant differential results for certain cytokine incubation. See Figure 2.
[0069]       Mixed Cell Alternative Therapy
[0070]       The present invention also encompasses administering a mixture of cells to a site
in need thereof in a mammal to produce collagen or hyaline cartilage, wherein a first
population of cells is transfected or transduced with a gene of interest to be expressed at the
site of interest in a mammal. As somatic gene therapy is attempted, the present invention
provides for including a second population of cells that are primed cells, which are not
transfected or transduced with the gene of interest, and which cells are endogenously
decreased at the wounded or diseased or otherwise debilitated site of interest.
[0071]       In particular, in the mixed cell therapy approach using primed cells, the present
invention discloses ex vivo and in vivo techniques for delivery of a DNA sequence of interest
to the connective tissue cells of the mammalian host. The ex vivo technique involves culture
of target connective tissue cells, in vitro transfection or transduction of the DNA sequence,
DNA vector or other delivery vehicle of interest into the connective tissue cells, followed by
transplantation of the modified connective tissue cells to the target joint of the mammalian
host, so as to effect in vivo expression of the gene product of interest.
[0072]       It is to be understood that while it is possible that substances such as a scaffolding
or a framework as well as various extraneous tissues may be implanted together in the gene
therapy protocol of the present invention, it is also possible that such scaffolding or tissue not
be included in the injection system of the invention. In a preferred embodiment, in a cell
                                                  14

mediated gene therapy or somatic cell therapy, the invention is directed to a simple method of
injecting a population of transfected or transduced connective tissue cells to the joint space so
that the exogenous TGF superfamily protein is expressed in the joint space.
 [0073]     One ex vivo method of treating a connective tissue disorder using the mixed cell
approach using primed cells, disclosed throughout this specification comprises initially
generating a recombinant viral or plasmid vector which contains a DNA sequence encoding a
protein or biologically active fragment thereof. This recombinant vector is then used to infect
or transfect a population of in vitro cultured connective tissue cells, resulting in a population
of connective tissue cells containing the vector.      These connective tissue cells are then
transplanted to a target joint space of a mammalian host either as a mixture with primed
connective tissue cells or separately into the joint space so as to cause a mixture inside the
joint, thus effecting subsequent expression of the protein or protein fragment within the joint
space. Expression of this DNA sequence of interest is useful in substantially reducing at least
one deleterious joint pathology associated with a connective tissue disorder.
 [0074]     In the mixed cell approach, in the case of the gene transfected cells, the inventive
method includes employing as the gene a gene capable of encoding a member of the
transforming growth factor j superfamily, or a biologically active derivative or fragment
thereof and a selectable marker, or a biologically active derivative or fragment thereof.
 [0075]     A further embodiment of the present invention includes employing as the gene a
gene capable of encoding at least one member of the transforming growth factor 0
superfamily or a biologically active derivative or fragment thereof, and employing as the
vector any DNA plasmid vector known to one of ordinary skill in the art capable of stable
maintenance within the targeted cell or tissue upon delivery, regardless of the method of
delivery utilized.
 [0076]     Another embodiment of this invention provides a method for introducing at least
one gene encoding a product into at least one cell of a connective tissue for use in treating the
mammalian host. This method includes employing non-viral means for introducing the gene
coding for the product into the connective tissue cell. More specifically, this method includes
a liposome encapsulation, calcium phosphate coprecipitation, electroporation, or DEAE
dextran mediation, and includes employing as the gene a gene capable of encoding a member
of transforming growth factor superfamily or biologically active derivative or fragment
thereof, and a selectable marker, or biologically active derivative or fragment thereof.
                                                15

 [0077]     Another embodiment of this invention provides an additional method for
introducing at least one gene encoding a product into at least one cell of a connective tissue
for use in treating the mammalian host. This additional method includes employing the
biologic means of utilizing a virus to deliver the DNA vector molecule to the target cell or
tissue. Preferably, the virus is a pseudo-virus, the genome having been altered such that the
pseudovirus is capable only of delivery and stable maintenance within the target cell, but not
retaining an ability to replicate within the target cell or tissue. The altered viral genome is
further manipulated by recombinant DNA techniques such that the viral genome acts as a
DNA vector molecule which contains the heterologous gene of interest to be expressed
within the target cell or tissue.
 [0078]     Another preferred method of the present invention involves direct in vivo delivery
of a TGF-P superfamily gene to the connective tissue of a mammalian host together with the
primed cells through use of either a retroviral vector, adenovirus vector, adeno-associated
virus (AAV) vector or herpes-simplex virus (HSV) vector. In other words, a DNA sequence
of interest encoding a functional TGF-$ or BMP protein or protein fragment is subcloned into
the respective viral vector. The TGF- or BMP containing recombinant virus is then grown
to adequate titer and directed into the joint space, preferably by intra-articular injection.
 [0079]     Methods of presenting the DNA molecule to the target connective tissue of the
joint includes, but is not limited to, encapsulation of the DNA molecule into cationic
liposomes, subcloning the DNA sequence of interest in a retroviral or plasmid vector, or the
direct injection of the DNA molecule itself into the joint. The DNA molecule, regardless of
the form of presentation to the knee joint, is preferably presented as a DNA vector molecule,
either as recombinant viral DNA vector molecule or a recombinant DNA plasmid vector
molecule. Expression of the heterologous gene of interest is ensured by inserting a promoter
fragment active in eukaryotic cells directly upstream of the coding region of the heterologous
gene. One of ordinary skill in the art may utilize known strategies and techniques of vector
construction to ensure appropriate levels of expression subsequent to entry of the DNA
molecule into the connective tissue.
 [0080]     In a preferred embodiment, non-primed fibroblasts and chondrocytes are cultured
in vitro for subsequent utilization as a delivery system for gene therapy together with the
primed cells. It will be apparent that Applicants are not limited to the use of the specific
connective tissue disclosed. It would be possible to utilize other tissue sources for in vitro
culture techniques.    The method of using the gene or cytokine of this invention may be
                                                 16

employed both prophylactically and in the therapeutic treatment of osteoarthritis and wound
healing.    It will also be apparent that the invention is not limited to prophylactic or
therapeutic applications for treating only the knee joint. It would be possible to utilize the
present invention either prophylactically or therapeutically to treat osteoarthritis in any
susceptible joint or any damage resulting from an injury caused by a tear or degradation of
the cartilage.
[0081]       In a further embodiment of this invention the primed cells are stored before
administration to the joint space. Further, the transfected or transduced cells alone may be
stored, or the mixture may be stored, but not necessarily simultaneously. In addition, the
duration of storage need not be for the same time period. Thus, the individually stored cells
may be mixed prior to injection. Alternatively, the cells may be stored and injected separately
to form a mixture of cells within the joint space. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the
art that these cells may be stored frozen in a cryopreservative such as but not limited to a
composition of about 10 percent DMSO in liquid nitrogen or an equivalent storage medium.
[0082]       Connective tissues are difficult organs to target therapeutically. Intravenous and
oral routes of drug delivery that are known in the art provide poor access to these connective
tissues and have the disadvantage of exposing the mammalian host body systemically to the
therapeutic agent. More specifically, known intra-articular injection of proteins to joints
provides direct access to a joint.     However, most of the injected drugs in the form of
encapsulated proteins have a short intra-articular half-life. The present invention solves these
problems by introducing into the connective tissue of a mammalian host primed cells, which
may include chondrocytes or fibroblasts and/or genes coding for proteins that may be used to
treat the mammalian host. Genes coding for proteins with anti-arthritic properties may be
used.
[0083]       The primed cells may be used to treat osteoarthritis, a type of arthritis that is
caused by the breakdown and eventual loss of the cartilage of one or more joints. If
degenerative arthritis or osteoarthritis or any cartilage damage can be cured with just
injection of the primed cells into the joint without including various physical apparatuses
such as scaffolding or any other three-dimensional structure, the patients can be treated
conveniently without major surgery.
[0084]       Intervertebral Disc
[0085]       The primed cells may be also used to regenerate intervertebral disc. The
intervertebral discs make up one fourth of the spinal column's length. There are no discs
between the Atlas (Cl), Axis (C2), and Coccyx. Discs are not vascular and therefore depend
                                                17

on the end plates to diffuse needed nutrients. The cartilaginous layers of the end plates anchor
the discs in place.
[0086]      The intervertebral discs are fibrocartilaginous cushions serving as the spine's
shock absorbing system, which protect the vertebrae, brain, and other structures (i.e. nerves).
The discs allow some vertebral motion: extension and flexion. Individual disc movement is
very limited - however considerable motion is possible when several discs combine forces.
[0087]      Intervertebral discs are composed of an annulus fibrosus and a nucleus pulposus.
The annulus fibrosus is a strong radial tire-like structure made up of lamellae; concentric
sheets of collagen fibers connected to the vertebral end plates. The sheets are orientated at
various angles. The annulus fibrosus encloses the nucleus pulposus.
[0088]      Although both the annulus fibrosus and nucleus pulposus are composed of water,
collagen, and proteoglycans (PGs), the amount of fluid (water and PGs) is greatest in the
nucleus pulposus. PG molecules are important because they attract and retain water. The
nucleus pulposus contains a hydrated gel-like matter that resists compression. The amount of
water in the nucleus varies throughout the day depending on activity. As people age, the
nucleus pulposus begins to dehydrate, which limits its ability to absorb shock. The annulus
fibrosus gets weaker with age and begins to tear. While this may not cause pain in some
people, in others one or both of these may cause chronic pain.
[0089]      Pain due to the inability of the dehydrating nucleus pulposus to absorb shock is
called axial pain or disc space pain. One generally refers to the gradual dehydration of the
nucleus pulposus as degenerative disc disease. When the annulus fibrosus tears due to an
injury or the aging process, the nucleus pulposus can begin to extrude through the tear. This
is called disc herniation. Near the posterior side of each disc, all along the spine, major spinal
nerves extend out to different organs, tissues, extremities etc. It is very common for the
herniated disc to press against these nerves (pinched nerve) causing radiating pain, numbness,
tingling, and diminished strength and/or range of motion. In addition, the contact of the inner
nuclear gel, which contains inflammatory proteins, with a nerve can also cause significant
pain. Nerve-related pain is called radicular pain.
[0090]      Herniated discs go by many names and these can mean different things to
different medical professionals. A slipped disc, ruptured disc, or a bulging disc can all refer to
the same medical condition. Protrusions of the disc into the adjacent vertebra are known as
Schmorl's nodes.
[0091]      The following examples are offered by way of illustration of the present
invention, and not by way of limitation.
                                                18

EXAMPLES
[0092]       Example 1 - Preparation of primed chondrocytes
[0093]       Example 1.1 - Cell Culture and Treatments
[0094]       Cells used in this study originated from primary human chondrocytes that had
been cultured for an extended period in vitro. These cells have assumed a morphology and
phenotype that is characteristic of fibroblasts despite their origin.         Experiments were
performed with cultures approximately at passage seven. Cells were seeded in two different
culture formats: monolayer, and micromass. Culture medium consisted of DMEM (Lonza)
with 4.5 g/L glucose, supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (Lonza) and 1% L
Glutamine (Lonza). Cells were incubated in 37"C, 5% CO2 environment for the duration of
treatment.    Cells were exposed to multiple concentrations of TGF-P1 (R&D Systems) at
different time points of the culture process for several lengths of incubation time.
[0095]       Example 1.2 - Monolayer Culture
[0096]       Chondrocytes were seeded at 5 x 104 cells/well into a 6-well collagen coated plate
(BioCoat, BD Biosciences).       Cells were either primed with TGF-P1 at a concentration of
lOOng/mL for a period of 6 hours prior to seeding or incubated with TGF-P1 at lng/mL
concentration for the duration of the study. In addition to these two treatments, a co-culture
of TGF-P1 producing cells and human chondrocytes were prepared at a 1:3 ratio, seeded at 5
x 10 4 cells/well and similarly examined for the duration of the three week study. Cells would
be harvested weekly for RNA preparation and staining.
[0097]       A shorter one week study was also performed. Chondrocytes were seeded at 3 x
103 cells/cm2 to each well of the collagen coated 6-well plate. Four treatment groups
represented the different time points at which TGF-pl supplementation occurs: 24 hour, 48
hour, 72 hour, and two 36 hour intervals prior to cell harvest at the end of the week long
study.
[0098]       Example 1.3 - Micromass Culture
[0099]       Cell suspensions were prepared for a seeding density of 3 x 105 cells/ 15pL
droplet. Cell droplets were placed in the center of the well of a 24-well collagen coated plate
(BioCoat). Cell masses were incubated for 1.5 hours at 370 C were replenished with 1mL of
complete medium once masses were set. Cells were primed through treatment with lOng/mL
or 50ng/mL of TGF-P1 for duration of 6 hours or 18 hours prior to the seeding of
micromasses. In addition to these four treatment groups, two groups of chondrocytes were
                                                19

exposed to TGF-P1 at concentrations of lng/mL or lOng/mL for the duration of the study.
The final experimental group consisted of the 3:1 ratio of TGF-p1 producing cells to
untreated chondrocytes. Masses were cultured for up to four weeks.
[00100]     Example 1.4 - Alcian Blue Staining
[00101]     Alcian blue (AB), also called Alcian blue 8GX, Ingrain blue 1, and C.I. 74240, is
a phthalocyanine dye that contains copper. The dye stains acid mucopolysaccharides and
glycosaminoglycans, for which it is one of the most widely used cationic dyes; the stained
parts are blue to bluish-green. It can be combined with H&E staining and van Gieson staining
methods. It bonds by electrostatic forces with the negatively charged macromolecules.
Gradual increases in the electrolyte concentration used to wash the bound dye selectively
identifies neutral, sulphated, and phosphated mucopolysaccharides.
[00102]     The Alcian Blue staining occurred in conjunction with weekly cell harvests to
determine the level of GAG accumulation during culture. All culture medium was aspirated
from the well then washed two times with 4mL PBS/well (Cellgro, Mediatech).          Cultures
were then fixed with 10% formalin (Sigma), 500ul/well for 24-well plate and 800ul/well for
6-well plate, for 15 minutes. lml - 2mL of filtered Alcian Blue 8-GX (Sigma, 1.0% in 3%
acetic acid pH 1.0) was added to each well and stained overnight at room temperature.
Following the staining period each well was rinsed two times with 2-4mL/well of 3% acetic
acid, rinsed two times with 2-4mL/well of PBS with complete aspiration between each wash.
Cells were observed for stain intensity and cell morphology. Results are shown in Fig. 1.
[00103]     Example 1.5 - RT-PCR
[00104]     RNA was isolated from weekly cell harvests using a phenol chloroform extraction
procedure using TRIzol (Invitrogen).         Isolated RNA was reverse transcribed using
SuperScriptTM reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) to acquire cDNA constructs for each cell
sample. Polymerase chain reaction was performed using the following primers synthesized
by IDT:
[00105]     Collagen Ia1 forward primer 5'-GACCTCGTGGCAGAGATGGAG-3' (SEQ ID
NO:1),
[00106]     Collagen IHa1 reverse primer 5'-AACCTCTGTGACCTTTGACACCAG-3'(SEQ
ID NO:2),
[00107]     Collagen Ial forward primer 5'-TGTGGCCCAGAAGAACTGGTACAT-3'(SEQ
ID NO:3),
[00108]     Collagen Jal reverse primer 5'-AAAGGAGCAGAAAGGGCAGCATTG-3'(SEQ
ID NO:4),
                                               20

[00109]     Aggrecan forward primer 5'-TTCAGTGGCCTACCAAGTGGCATA-3' (SEQ ID
NO:5),
[00110]     Aggrecan reverse primer 5'-ACATCACTGGTGGTGGTGGATTCT-3' (SEQ ID
NO:6),
[00111]     Beta-catenin forward primer 5'-TGGCCATCTTTAAGTCTGGAGGCA-3'(SEQ
ID NO:7),
[00112]     Beta-catenin reverse primer 5'-GATTTGCGGGACAAAGGGCAAGAT-3'(SEQ
ID NO:8)
[00113]     The following conditions were used for PCR in the thermocycler:             Initial
denaturation at 95 0 C for 2 minutes, followed by 35 cycles of denaturation at 95 0 C for 45
seconds, annealing at 62.50 C for 1 minute, and extension at 720 C for minute.         At the
completion of all cycles a final extension period was programmed at 72 0 C for 5 minutes. Gel
electrophoresis of the final PCR product was performed against the control beta-actin to
determine comparative levels of phenotypic genes for the TGF- 31 treated chondrocytes.
[00114]     Example 2 - Further Preparation of Primed Chondrocytes
[00115]     Example 2.1 - Monolayer Cell Culture
[00116]     Two vials of hChonJ passage 5 (p5) chondrocytes (2x 106 cells/vial) were thawed
and seeded into an even number of collagen coated and non coated T-75 flasks at a cell
seeding density of 5x10 3 cells/cm 2.    Cells were initially cultured with complete media,
DMEM (Lonza cat.no. ) supplemented with 10% FBS (Lonza, cat.no. 14-507F) and 1% L
Glutamine (Lonza, cat.no. 17-605E).
[00117]     Example 2.2 - Cytokine Treatment
[00118]     Seven different cytokine treatment groups were used in this study. 24 hours after
cell seeding, the culture media in all flasks were replaced with l2mL of cytokine
supplemented media. Cytokine treatment groups (Table 1) were as follows: 50ng/mL TGFP1
(eBioscience or Promogen), 200ng/mL BMP-2 (eBioscience) and 15pg/mL Insulin (Sigma
Aldrich), 200ng/mL BMP-2 (eBioscience), 15pg/mL Insulin (Sigma Aldrich), and lOOnM
3,3',5-Triiodo-L-thyronine (13) (Sigma Aldrich), lOng/mL FGF (eBioscience) and TGFP1
(eBioscience or Promogen), and 20ng/mL TGFP3 (Sigma Aldrich).            Two T-75 flasks of
collagen coated cells and two non coated T-75 flasks were used for negative treatment
controls, l2mL of complete DMEM.           Cell culture media for each treatment group was
replaced every 3-4 days. Figure 2 also shows cell growth rate in 2-dimensional culture with
cytokine treatment. Cells cultured in T-75 flasks from each cytokine treatment group were
                                               21

harvested at confluence and counted to determine the cell growth rate from initial cell seeding
numbers.
                                             22

                                            Table 1
          Treatment conditions for comparative cytokine study.
                Cytokine Groups        Abbreviation   Components      Concentration
                     TGF1                TGF-bl _e       TGFP1           50ng/mL
                     TGFIB1              TGF-b1lp        TGF 1           50ng/mL
                 BMP2 & Insulin              BI          BMP2            200ng/mL
                                                         Insulin          15pg/mL
                                                         BMP2            200ng/mL
                BMP2, Insulin & T3          BIT          Insulin          15pg/mL
                                                            T3             lOOnM
                                         FGF-TGF-          FGF            10ng/mL
                  FGF & TGF 1
                                           ble           TGFP1           50ng/mL
                                         FGF-TGF-          FGF            10ng/mL
                  FGF & TGF 1
                                           blp           TGFP1           50ng/mL
                     TGFP3                TGF-b3         TGFP3           20ng/mL
                Negative Control             0             ----              ---
[00119]     Figure 5 shows cell morphology in 2-dimensional culture with cytokine treatment.
Digital images of chondrocyte growth were taken at a time point (3 days after seeding)
displaying approximately 30-50% confluence of cells. Observations in cell distribution, cell
size, and morphology vary between cytokine treatment groups.           Images were taken at a
magnifcation of 100x.
[00120]     Figures 6 shows cell morphology in 2-dimensional             culture with cytokine
treatment. Digital images of chondrocyte growth were taken at a time point (8 days after
seeding) displaying approximately 80-100% confluence of cells just prior to the harvest of
cells for RNA preparation, protein extraction, and micromass culture. Images were taken at a
magnification of 100x.
[00121]     Example 2.3 - Subculture for Second Monolayer Expansion Culture
[00122]     Upon reaching confluence, a portion of the cells obtained from Example 2.2 were
treated with 2mL/flask of 1x Trypsin-Versene (EDTA) for 3 - 4 minutes in 37 0 C. Cells were
checked under the microscope at 100x for confirmation of full detachment. 8mL of complete
media was added to each flask to inactivate trypsin. 30pL of cells were removed from the
total cell suspension and added to 30pL of Trypan Blue for cell counting. After calculating
the cell concentration, 2.25x10 5 cells were added to each flask for a final cell seeding density
of 3x10 3 cells/cm 2 for the second expansion.     The subcultured cells underwent the same
cytokine treatment of cells as in Example 2.2 in order to confirm the effect of cytokine on the
connective tissue cells in the monolayer culture obtained in Example 2.2 (data not shown).
[00123]     Example 2.4 - Seeding Of Cell In Micromass Culture Format
                                                23

[00124]     A portion of cells obtained in Example 2.2 were seeded in 24 well collagen coated
or non-coated culture plates according to the previous cytokine treatment scheme as set forth
in Example 2.2. A set number of micromasses were allowed for each cell suspension and
was determined to between 10 to 24 micromasses. 1.5 x 105 cells per micromass was
calculated and that volume was removed from the cell suspension and into a fresh centrifuge
tube.   Cells were centrifuged at 1500 rpm, 100 C, for 7 minutes.       The supernatant was
aspirated and the remaining cell pellet was resuspended in complete media at a volume that
allowed 20pL/micromass. Micromasses were pipetted directly onto the naked surface of the
wells at 20gL volumes (-1.5x105cells) and incubated at 37 0 C, 5%CO2 for approximately 1
hour. After the 1 hour incubation period 500pL of media, cytokine conditioned or negative
control complete media, was added to each well. Micromasses were cultured for 7 days
before cell harvesting for RNA and protein content and Alcian Blue staining and subsequent
GAG quantification.
[00125]     Figure 3 shows micromass formation. Micromasses were plated at 1.5 x 105
cells/20pl/mass directly on to the surface of culture plates without the presence of culture
media. Cells were incubated for 1.5 hours for adequate cell attachment to occur and
0.5mL/well of complete growth medium was added. Cells were cultured for a period of 7
days with one complete change of growth media at 3-4 days.          At the end of the 7 day
incubation period, micromasses were washed twice with 1mL of dPBS/well and fixed with
10% formalin solution for 30 minutes. Fixing solution was removed and masses were stained
with 500uL/well of 1.0% Alcian Blue 8GX in 1N HCI overnight in 40 C. Alcian Blue staining
indicates   the distribution of glycosaminoglycans      (GAGs) in micromass culture of
chondrocytes exposed to different cytokine conditions.
[00126]     Example 2.5 - RNA Preparation and Protein Extraction of Cell Suspensions
[00127]     Remaining cell suspension volumes from the cells obtained in Example 2.2 were
equally divided and using the measured volume, the cell number per prep volume was
calculated. Cell prep suspensions were centrifuged at 1500rpm, 10'C, for 7 minutes. Pellets
were washed with 4mL of PBS media and centrifuged once more. The final wash volume
was aspirated and cell pellets were used for RNA and protein extraction purposes. For RNA
preparation a standard phenol-chloroform extraction technique was employed. For protein
extraction, cells were lysed using RIPA buffer (Sigma Aldrich) and snap frozen in liquid
nitrogen. RNA preparation and protein extraction and analysis was repeated using the cells
from the subculture set forth in Example 2.3.
[00128]     Example 2.6 - RNA Preparation and Protein Extraction of Micromasses
                                              24

[00129]     After 1 week culture period, micromass culture plates were removed from the
incubator and simultaneously processed for RNA, protein, and Alcian Blue staining. Each
well was washed gently two times with lmL dPBS per well. Half the micromasses were set
aside of RNA preparation using the standard phenol chloroform extraction. The remaining
micromasses were used for protein extraction using RIPA lysis buffer and samples were snap
frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored in -80'C long term. Micromass seeding was also carried
out using the subcultured cells of Example 2.3. RNA and protein extraction and analysis was
also repeated using these micromasses and the results confirmed the results obtained with the
micromasses seeded from the monolayer cells obtained in Example 2.2.
[00130]     Example 2.7 - Alcian Blue Staining
[00131]     1.0% Alcian Blue-8GX stain was prepared in 1N HCL solution and filtered to
remove particulate debris.     3-4 micromasses were reserved for staining purposes only.
Micromasses were washed gently two times with 1mL dPBS per well.              The final wash
solution was completely removed from each well. 250pL/well of 10% formalin was added to
fix each micromass and plates were incubated at room temperature for 15-30 minutes. Fixing
solution was completely aspirated from each well and 500uL/well of 1% Alcian blue-8GX
stain was added and incubated overnight at 40 C. Staining solution was removed after the
incubation period and micromasses were washed two times with 1mL dPBS/well. Digital
images of micromasses were taken to record the distribuation of stain in each well.
[00132]     Example 2.8 - GAG Quantification
[00133]     250pL/well of 4M Guanidine HCI (Gu-HCl) was added and incubated for a
minimum of lhr to 18hr overnight in 40 C to ensure complete extraction of stain. 100pL of
solution was removed from each well and transferred to a 96 well assay plate for observation
at 560nM. 100uL of 4M Gu-HCl was used as a blank. Figure 4 shows GAG quantification of
micromasses. Quantification of glycosaminoglycans can be performed through the addition
of guanidine hydrochloride (Gu-HCI) which precipitates the Alcian Blue bound GAG chains
of proteoglycan molecules. Alcian blue stained micromasses were incubated with 250pl/well
of 4M Gu-HCl.       When most of the stain had been extracted from the micromasses, the
solution was removed and the optical density was measured at 560nM.
[00134]     Example 2.9 - Gene Expression Analysis
[00135]     Complementary DNA (cDNA) was obtained by reverse transcription of mRNA
(0.5 - lpg depending on RNA concentration) using oligo dT as a primer.            The reverse
transcription reaction was used performed in a 20pL volume in a thermocycler. Expression
levels of several chondrotypic genes (Table 2) were analyzed. Gene expression analysis was
                                              25

carried out for both the monolayer cells and micromass cells, as well as the subcultured
monolayer cells and the micromasses derived from the subcultured cells, and the results
confirm each other.
                                           26

                                             Table 2
                        Primers used for genes of interest
                  Product    Primer
      GOI         Length     ID        Sequence (5'->3')                Length  Tm       GC%
                  bp
                                       ATC TGG CAC CAC ACC TTC
                             Beta      TAC AAT GAG CTG CG (SEQ
                             Actin 5'  ID NO:9)                             32  76.78    53.12
      Beta                             CGT CAT ACT CCT GCT TGC
      Actin           838    Beta      TGA TCC ACA TCT GC (SEQ
                             Actin 3'  ID NO:10)                            32  76.02    53.12
                             Col1al    TGT GGC CCA GAA GAA CTG
                             for       GTA CAT (SEQ ID NO:3)                24  66.06    50.00
      Collal          845    Col1a1    AAA GGA GCA GAA AGG GCA
                             rev       GCA TTG (SEQ ID NO:4)                24  68.61    50.00
                             A
                             Col2a1    CCC TGA GTG GAA GAG TGG
                             F         AG (SEQ ID NO:11)                    20  59.83    60.00
                             A
      Col2al          511    Col2a1    GAG GCG TGA GGT CTT CTG
                             R         TG (SEQ ID NO:12)                    20  61.01    60.00
                             SOX9      CCC TTC AAC CTC CCA CAC
                             for       TA (SEQ ID NO:13)                    20  59.96    55.00
      Sox-9           310    SOX9      TTA GGA TCA TCT CGG CCA
                             rev       TC (SEQ ID NO:14)                    20  60.00    50.00
                             CoIXal    GAA AAT GAC CAG GTG TGG
                             for       CT (SEQ ID NO:15)                    20  59.97    50.00
      CoIXal          288    ColXal    CGT TTT TAC GTT GCT GCT
                             rev       CA (SEQ ID NO:1 6)                   20  60.05    45.00
                                       TGC CTC GAA ACA TCA CTG
                             Agg for   AG (SEQ ID NO:17)                    20  59.98    50.00
      Aggrecan        998              CTC TTC TAC GGG GAC AGC
                 I         I Agg rev   AG (SEQ ID NO:18)                    20  60.01    60.00
[00136]      Polymerase chain reaction was performed with the following conditions. After the
initial denaturation at 950 C for 2 minutes; denaturation: 95 0 C for 45 seconds; annealing:
60'C for 1 minute; and extension: 72 0 C for 1 minute and 5 seconds. These steps were
repeated for 35 cycles. At the end of 35 cycles, a final extension at 72 0 C for 5 minutes was
performed. Gel electrophoresis was conducted using 4pL of each reaction sample with 1 pL of
gel loading buffer and run on a 1.5% agarose gel at 100V for 30 minutes. Gels are visualized
under UV light to determine the presence of positive bands.
[00137]      All of the references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[00138]      Whereas particular embodiments of this invention have been described above for
purposes of illustration, it will be evident to those persons skilled in the art that numerous
                                                 27

variations of the details of the present invention may be made without departing from the
invention as defined in the appended claims.
                                              28

What is claimed is:
1.       A composition comprising primed connective tissue cells manufactured from a two
dimensional monolayer and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof, wherein the composition
is injectable.
2.       The composition according to claim 1, wherein the cells are fibroblasts or chondrocytes.
3.       The composition according to claim 2, wherein the cells are human cells.
4.       A storage container for storing cells at a temperature of about -70'C to about
-196'C, comprising the composition according to claim 1.
5.       A method of stimulating regeneration of cartilage at a target site in a mammal comprising: (i)
incubating a connective tissue cell in a two-dimensional monolayer with a composition consisting
essentially of an active agent, which is a cytokine belonging to the TGF-3 superfamily, in the
absence of a matrix, to create a primed cell; (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the
connective tissue cell; and (iii) injecting a therapeutically effective amount of the primed cell into a
target joint site where cartilage is desired to be generated, wherein endogenously existing forms of
the connective tissue cells are decreased at the target site, and wherein the presence of the primed
cells at the target site stimulates regeneration of cartilage.
6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein the connective tissue cells are fibroblasts or
chondrocytes.
7.       The method according to claim 6, wherein the chondrocytes are primary human
chondrocytes.
8.       The method according to claim 5, wherein the connective tissue cells are incubated for about
1 to about 40 hours.
9.       The method according to claim 5, wherein the cytokine is TGF-plI.
                                                     29

10.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the cytokine is present in an amount of at least 1
ng/ml.
11.     The composition according to claim 1, further comprising a second population of
mammalian cells transfected or transduced with a gene that is sought to be expressed, wherein said
gene is TGF-31, TGF-p2, TGF-f33, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6 or BMP-7.
12.     A mixed cell composition, comprising a hyaline cartilage-generating effective amount of:
        (a) a first population of primed chondrocytes or fibroblast;
        (b) a second population of fibroblast or chondrocyte cells that have been transfected or
transduced with a gene encoding a member of the TGF-p superfamily; and
        (c) a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof.
13.     The composition according to claim 12, wherein said gene is TGF-pl, TGF-P2, TGF-P3,
BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, BMP-7 or BMP-9.
14.     The composition according to claim 12, wherein the ratio of the amount of first population of
primed cells to the amount of second population of fibroblast or chondrocyte cells that have been
transfected or transduced with a gene encoding a member of the TGF-p superfamily is about 1-20 to
1.
15.     The composition according to claim 14, wherein said ratio is from about 1-10 to 1.
16.     The composition according to claim 14, wherein said ratio is from about 1-3 to 1.
17.     The composition according to claim 12, wherein the second population of cells transfected or
transduced with a gene is irradiated.
18.     The composition according to claim 12, wherein the first population of cells and the second
population of cells are derived from the same source organism.
                                                   30

19.    The composition according to claim 12, wherein the first population of cells and the second
population of cells are derived from different source organisms.
20.    A method of generating a mixed cell composition comprising:
       (A) creating a first population of cells comprising the steps of:
               (i) incubating a connective tissue cell with a composition comprising a cytokine to
       create a first population of primed cells; and
               (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the connective tissue cell;
       (B) creating a second population of cells comprising the steps of:
               (i) generating a recombinant vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding the
       therapeutic protein operatively linked to a promoter;
               (ii) transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said recombinant
       vector to create the second population of cells; and
       (C) mixing the first and second population of cells together to result in the mixed cell
composition.
21.    A method of stimulating regeneration of cartilage at a target site in a mammal comprising
       (A) creating a first population of cells comprising the steps of :
               (i) incubating a connective tissue cell with a composition comprising a cytokine to
       create a first population of primed cells; and
               (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the connective tissue cell;
       (B) creating a second population of cells comprising the steps of:
               (i) generating a recombinant vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding the
       therapeutic protein operatively linked to a promoter;
               (ii) transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said recombinant
       vector to create the second population of cells; and
       (C) injecting a therapeutically effective amount of a mixture of the first and second
population of cells into a target joint site where cartilage is desired to be generated, wherein
endogenously existing forms of the connective tissue cells are decreased at the target site, and
wherein the presence of the mixture of cells at the target site stimulates regeneration of cartilage.
                                                   31

22.     The method according to claim 21, wherein said DNA sequence encodes TGF-P1, TGF-P2,
TGF-P3, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, or BMP-7.
23.     The method according to claim 21, wherein the first and second population of cells are
syngeneic with respect to the host recipient.
24.      The method according to claim 21, wherein the first and second population of cells are
allogeneic with respect to the host recipient.
25.     The method according to claim 21, wherein the first and second population of cells are
xenogeneic with respect to the host recipient.
26.     The method of claim 21, wherein said recombinant vector is a viral vector.
27.     The method of claim 21, wherein said recombinant vector is a plasmid vector.
28.     The method of claim 21, wherein said cells are stored prior to transplantation.
29.     The method of claim 28, wherein said cells are stored in a cryopreservative prior to
transplantation.
30.     A method of treating osteoarthritis comprising:
        (A) creating a first population of cells comprising the steps of:
                (i) incubating a connective tissue cell with a composition comprising a cytokine to
        create a first population of primed cells; and
                (ii) optionally separating the cytokine from the connective tissue cell;
        (B) creating a second population of cells comprising the steps of:
                (i) generating a recombinant vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding the
        therapeutic protein operatively linked to a promoter;
                (ii) transfecting or transducing a population of cells in vitro with said recombinant
        vector to create the second population of cells; and
                                                    32

        (C) injecting a therapeutically effective amount of a mixture of the first and second
population of cells and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier thereof that is not a non-living three
dimensional structure into a joint space of a mammal into a target joint site where cartilage is
desired to be generated, wherein endogenously existing forms of the connective tissue cells are
decreased at the target site, and wherein the presence of the mixture of cells at the target site
stimulates regeneration of cartilage to treat osteoarthritis.
31.     A storage container for storing cells at a temperature of about -70'C to about
-196'C, comprising the mixed cell composition according to 12.
32.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the subject suffers from degenerative arthritis.
33.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the target site is spinal cord.
34.     The method according to claim 5, wherein in step (i), the cell is incubated in a container
coated with collagen.
35.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the cytokine belonging to the TGF-3 superfamily
is TGF-1, TGF-P2, TGF-p3, BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-5, BMP-6, BMP-7 or BMP-9.
36.     The method according to claim 35, wherein the cytokine is TGF- 1, TGF-3, or BMP-2.
                                                    33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
