                                           Abstract
A method for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the
method including the steps of acquiring data from a first array comprising a plurality of
shear sensors configured for placement in a left shoe and from a second array comprising
a plurality of shear sensors configured for placement in a right shoe, the acquired data
being separated into at least two separate gait phases for each array; comparing at least a
portion of the acquired data to a baseline condition for each gait phase; and categorizing
the sensors in each array, or a group of sensors in each array, into one of at least two
uniformity categories for each gait phase based on the comparison of the acquired data to
the baseline condition.
                                                                      10396449_1(GHMatters) P92617.AU.322/06/2018

 FIG. 1
   100
                                                         1         -142
                                                                        132
             I 10
                                                       Daa cqiston Sorg
                                            28 -- , and/r1P0o essin
                                   112
                      1         1,6
                     TransmiData -                   Acusiin Storage--
       12180
       Trnmtter-----          ----
124
                                       1/16

                           GAIT ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND METHODS
                                         Related Application
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. <removed-apn>,
which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2014201892 the disclosure
of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the disclosure of that application is also
included herein, however, reference may be made to the specification of application no.
<removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2014201892
as filed or accepted to gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
                                           Technical Field
[0002] This application relates to a system and methods for collecting, calculating and
outputting data useful in analyzing the gait of an individual.
                                             Background
[0003] Disorders of asymmetries and/or imbalances in gait have been associated with
significant clinical morbidity, mortality, and healthcare cost and resource utilization. For
example, loss of balance and falls can result in acute injuries, hospitalization, and deaths.
[0004] Additionally, the progressive deterioration of the joints, either with associated pain or
without pain, can cause balance/gait disorders. For example, injuries to the anterior cruciate
ligament can lead to deterioration of the knee joint anatomy and function. Another example is
the deterioration at the knee or hip joint anatomy and function secondary to rheumatoid
arthritis and/or osteoarthritis, either before or after partial or total hip joint replacement
surgery.
[0005] Yet another cause of balance/gait disorders is unequal weight bearing between the
lower extremities, resulting in chronic musculoskeletal pain, including back pain. As might be
appreciated, numerous challenges exist in preventing, treating and rehabilitating balance and
gait disorders.
[0006] Even though the causes for many balance and gait disorders are well understood,
improvements in assessment tools for analyzing these disorders are desired. This is
particularly the case where it is desired to assess gait and/or balance quantitatively during the
totality of ambulation and activity over a prolonged period, for example, over the course of a
full day.
                                              Summary
[0007] According to one broad aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for
analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the method including the

steps of:
        (a)    acquiring data from a first array comprising a plurality of shear sensors configured
                   for placement in a left shoe and from a second array comprising a plurality of
                   shear sensors configured for placement in a right shoe, the acquired data being
                   separated into at least two separate gait phases for each array;
        (b)        comparing at least a portion of the acquired data to a baseline condition for each
                   gait phase; and
        (c)        categorizing the sensors in each array, or a group of sensors in each array, into
                   one of at least two uniformity categories for each gait phase based on the
                   comparison of the acquired data to the baseline condition.
[0007a] According to another broad aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the method including
the steps of:
        (a)        acquiring data from a first array comprising a plurality of pressure sensors
                   configured for placement in a left shoe and from a second array comprising a
                   plurality of pressure sensors configured for placement in a right shoe, the
                   acquired data being separated into at least two separate gait phases for each
                   array;
        (b)        comparing at least a portion of the acquired data to a baseline condition for each
                   gait phase; and
        (c)        categorizing the sensors in each array, or a group of sensors in each array, into
                   one of at least two uniformity categories for each gait phase based on the
                   comparison of the acquired data to the baseline condition.
[0007b] According to yet another broad aspect of the present invention there is provided a
method for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the method
including the steps of:
        a.     acquiring data onto a computerized storage device:
                i.    the acquired data comprising sensor and time information being from a first
                            array of sensors disposed in a left shoe and a second array of sensors
                            disposed in a right shoe;
               ii.    each sensor in the first array having a corresponding and similarly located
                            sensor in the second array that together form a sensor pair;
        b.     creating a data evaluation set, including the steps of:
                i.    parsing at least some of the acquired data into at least two separate gait
                            phases for each array;
               ii.    calculating a mean value for each sensor for each similar gait phase; and
              iii.    calculating a mean value for each sensor pair for each similar gait phase;
              iv.     analyzing the data evaluation set, including the steps of:
               v.     comparing, for each gait phase, the mean value for each sensor to the sensor

                         pair mean value and to a mean deviation limit value; and
              vi.   categorizing each sensor into one of at least two uniformity categories for each
                         gait phase on the basis of the comparison; and
        c.   creating a graphical output based on the category into which each sensor has been
             placed, the output showing at least one entire gait cycle wherein each gait phase is
             individually represented by a right footprint and a left footprint.
[0008] Advantages and other features of the invention will become apparent from the following
drawing, description and claims.
                                 Brief Description of the Drawings
[0009] In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained, embodiments will now
be de-scribed, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a first embodiment of a gait analysis system.
FIG. 2a is a diagrammatic top view of an arrangement of pressure sensors for a left shoe
and a right shoe.
FIG. 2b is a diagrammatic top view of an arrangement of pressure sensors and shear stress
sensors for a left shoe and a right shoe.
FIG. 3 is a representation of three gait phases for a right foot during a single gait cycle.
FIG. 4 is a first example of a graphical output from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIG. 5 is a second example of a graphical output from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIG. 6 is a third example of a graphical output from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIG. 7 is a fourth example of a graphical output from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIG. 8 is a fifth example of a graphical output from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIG. 9 is a further representation of the fourth example shown in FIG. 7.
FIG. 10 is a flow chart showing example steps for analyzing an individual's gait.
FIG. 11 is a flow chart showing example steps for analyzing and categorizing acquired data.
FIG. 12 is an example input table for the gait analysis system of FIG. 1
FIG. 13 is a first example output table from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1.
FIGS. 14-16 show a second example output table from the gait analysis system of FIG. 1
                                        Detailed Description
[0010] This disclosure relates to a system and methods for analyzing the gait of an
individual. In broad terms, pressure data from a left shoe and a right shoe are acquired and
evaluated to determine if an individual's gait is in need of improvement.        One example of
such a system is gait analysis system 100, shown on FIG. 1.
[0011] In one exemplary embodiment, gait analysis system 100 includes a first array of
sensors 112 disposed within a right shoe 110 and a second array of sensors 122 disposed
within a left shoe 120. Many types of sensors are useful in gait analysis system 100. For
example, sensors 112a, 122a can be pressure sensors. Alternatively, the sensors can be

shear stress sensors 152a, 162a, for example biaxial shear stress sensors.
[0012] By the use of the term "biaxial" it is meant that at least two component values for
shear stress are measured along different axes, preferably orthogonal axes. In some
arrangements, both biaxial shear stress sensors and pressure sensors will be used in the
same shoe.
[0013] In the particular embodiment shown in FIG. 2a, the first and second arrays of sensors
112, 122 are for measuring the pressure that an individual's foot exerts over an area of the
foot. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 2b, the first and second arrays of sensors 112, 122
are for measuring not only the pressure, but also the shear stress that an individual's foot
exerts over an area of the foot. Many types and configurations of pressure sensors and shear
stress sensors, and combinations thereof are suitable for this purpose. For example, FIG. 2a
shows a plurality of pressure sensors 112a, 122a disposed in various locations to form a first
and second array of pressure sensors 112, 122, respectively. FIG. 2b shows a plurality of
pressure sensors 112a, 122a and a plurality of shear stress sensors 152a, 162a disposed in
various locations to form a first and second array of pressure sensors 112, 122, respectively.
As can be seen at FIGS. 2a and 2b, each array includes numerous individual sensors
arranged to cover the major contacting areas of a foot (only type of sensor in each array is
actually labeled). Of course, the arrays 112, 122 could be configured with fewer or more
sensors, or in conjunction with a pressure sensing fabric.
[0014] In the actual arrangement shown in FIGS. 2a and 2b, each sensor 112a, 152a in the
first array 112 has a correspondingly located sensor 122a, 162a in the second array 122 to
form a sensor pair. As shown at FIGS. 2a and 2b, the two pressure sensors actually labeled
112a and 122a form such a pair as do sensors 152a and 162a. Also, some of the sensors
can be grouped together such that an output is generated based on the average output for
the grouped sensors. In this case, rather than having sensor pairs, the sensors that are
grouped together would form group sensor pairs 112b, 122b and/or 152b, 162b. Where a
fabric is used, the same principle can be applied to pre-defined areas over the fabric.
Additionally, it should be noted that the first and second pressure arrays 112, 122 can be
integral to a shoe, or can be arranged on a removable insert. In the latter case, a potential
benefit exists in that the pressure arrays 112, 122 can be used in conjunction with an
individual's normally used shoes.
[0015] Gait analysis system 100 can also include transmitters 116, 126 for receiving and
transmitting output information from the first and second pressure arrays 112, 122 to unit 130,
discussed later. As shown in FIG. 1, the transmitters 116, 126 are connected to the first and
second arrays 112, 122 via connections 114, 124, respectively. Connections 114, 124 can
be made via either cable(s) or a wireless connection. As shown, connections 114, 124 are
cables that are directly connected to each sensor 112a, 122a while connections 118 and 128
to unit 130 are wireless connections. However, one skilled in the art will appreciate that other
configurations are suitable. For example, some of the sensors can be wired together or
selectively grouped via software such that an output is generated based on the average
pressure output for grouped sensors, 122b.

[0016] As noted in the preceding paragraph, gait analysis system 100 can also include a unit
130 for receiving data from the transmitters 116, 126. As shown, unit 130 is configured to
acquire sensor output information, such as time, stress and pressure values, from the first
and second arrays 112, 122 via transmitters 116, 126. Unit 130 can also be configured to
store the data from the transmitters and to perform calculations relating to the data. In either
case, unit 130 can also be configured to upload and download information from a computer
140 via connection 132. As shown, connection 132 is a wireless connection, but a cable
connection is just as feasible. Additionally, computer 140 can also be configured with a
display screen 142 to show graphical output generated either by unit 130 or computer 140.
Non-limiting examples of information that could be uploaded to the computer 140 from unit
130 are raw pressure data from the pressure sensors (e.g. output voltage and time), raw data
from the shear stress sensors, calculated results such as mean and/or median values for the
pressure data over a period of time, net torque exerted across a group of shear stress
sensors, and graphical output information. Non- limiting examples of information that could
be downloaded to unit 130 from computer 140 are configuration parameters, such as specific
times to acquire output data, desired sensor groupings, and parameters for defining individual
gait phases. It should also be noted that many of the above described functions for
transmitters 116, 126, unit 130 and computer 140 do not necessarily need to be performed
by one device or the other. For example, the calculations necessary to create a graphical
representation could be performed by the computer 140 instead of unit 130.
[0017] Referring to FIGS. 4-8, exemplary graphical outputs are shown that can be displayed
on an electronic display, such as screen 142, and/or generated in hard copy form. In each of
FIGS. 4-8, a gait pattern with footprints is shown representing an intended direction of
ambulation 214 wherein each individual footprint represents a separate gait phase 202. The
shown gait phases shown for each foot are heel strike 204, mid-stance 206, and toe-off 208.
Each gait phase 202 corresponds to a segment of time during which the foot or shoe is in
contact with the ground such that the sum of all three gait phases represents the total contact
time. To further illustrate this concept, these three gait phases are also shown in FIG. 3
which depicts a side view of an individual's right foot 210 and representative pressure values
212 as the foot moves through each gait phase 204, 206, 208. Taken together, the gait
phases for each foot form one entire gait cycle 200. A gait cycle 200 is defined as all defined
gait phases for sequentially adjacent left and right foot placements. In the particular
embodiments shown in FIGS. 4-8, gait cycle 200 is comprised of the following gait phases
202 from the bottom of the page up: left heel strike 204, left mid-stance 206, left toe-off 208,
right heel strike 204, right mid-stance 206, and right toe-off 208. It is, of course, possible to
parse the contact time into fewer or more than the three gait phases shown for each foot. It is
also possible to show only the gait phases for a gait cycle 200 of only one foot where an
analysis is not concerned with both feet. In such a case the system would only require the
collection of data from sensors associated with the foot to be analyzed.
[0018] Still referring to FIGS. 4-8, shaded areas are shown for each footprint and gait phase
to represent pressure values. With specific reference to FIG. 5, arrows are also shown to

represent shear stress and torque values. These shaded areas and arrows are for showing
whether an individual's gait is in conformity with a baseline condition. Many examples exist
for a baseline condition. In one example, the baseline condition can be a model of calculated
values for pressure, shear stress, and/or torque over time that represents a typical gait, or a
gait having no apparent abnormalities. In such an example, the model can be based upon an
individual of the same or similar physical characteristics, including height, weight, gender, as
the individual being analyzed. In this case, the shaded areas would represent the difference
between the actual gait of the individual and the modeled gait. Another example is where the
baseline condition is derived from values obtained from a previous gait/balance test or from
an initial gait baseline test for the individual being analyzed.   In this case, the shaded areas
would represent any changes that have occurred since the baseline test or the previous test.
Yet another example is where the baseline condition is actually the combined sensor data
from the sensor pair associated with each sensor. Where this is the case, the shaded areas
represent the degree to which one foot is exerting more or less pressure, shear stress or
torque than the mean value for both feet at a particular location for each gait phase. Any of
these baseline conditions is equally useful when looking at sensor data on an individual
output basis, or when looking at aggregated sensor data that has been averaged together to
create a mean value for each gait phase. When looking at individual output values, the
comparison is useful to assess a specific event, such as the conditions that led up to an
individual's loss of balance and subsequent fall. When looking at mean and/or median
values for each gait phase, the comparison is useful to longitudinally assess an individual's
typical gait throughout the course of a day, which may vary significantly from a simple
baseline test in a laboratory setting. It is noted that the graphical output can be configured to
selectively show one or more of the shaded areas, the shear stress arrows, and the torque
arrows such that only the representations relevant to the analysis are shown.
[0019] In the exemplary embodiments shown in FIGS. 4-8, the shaded areas are shown in
three gray-scale tones: dark gray, medium gray, and light gray. These tones can represent
different pressure uniformity categories relating to the comparison of the pressure sensor
data to the baseline condition. For example, dark gray represents a "non-uniform high"
category wherein the pressure sensor data are above the baseline condition, medium gray
represents a "uniform" category wherein the pressure sensor data are within the baseline
condition, and light gray represents a "non-uniform low" category wherein the pressure
sensor data are below the baseline condition. The "uniform category" can correlate to a
baseline condition that is defined by a range of acceptable values. This could be
accomplished by selecting a high value and a low value that bound the baseline condition.
Alternatively, the range could be defined by a mean value and a mean deviation limit wherein
the range extends from the mean value minus the mean deviation limit to the mean value
plus the mean deviation limit. In a similar fashion, median values can also be used. In either
case, the non-uniform high and non-uniform low categories would correlate to values above
or below the baseline condition, respectively. With such an approach, a health care
professional can simply vary the mean deviation limit for a particular individual in order to

account for the fact that some gait/balance disorders require a more sensitive assessment
than others. Additionally, although FIGS. 4-8 are shown using a three-tone grayscale
representation that relate to three pressure uniformity categories, one skilled in the art will
appreciate that more tones/colors and categories may be used to show a higher degree of
resolution.
[0020] It is noted that the shaded areas shown are derived from data collected from the
pressure sensors and subsequent calculations. Although the sensors are located in discreet
positions within the shoe, the graphical output can be created such that a smooth, gradated
pressure pattern is achieved, as shown in FIGS. 4-8. However, it is entirely possible to show
segmented regions on the graphical output such that the output for each pressure sensor is
more clearly identified. Showing an entire gait cycle 200 with shaded areas in the manner
described is beneficial because many gait and balance disorders can be more easily
evaluated with such visual information.
[0021] With particular reference to FIGS. 4-5, the shaded areas for the gait cycle shown
represent output derived from a comparison of the pressure sensor values against a baseline
condition where all of the pressure sensor values are within the baseline condition parameters
for each gait phase. This can be readily seen by the condition that all of the shaded areas in
FIG. 4 are medium gray. Such output is the result of an individual's gait that is either normal,
consistent with a previous test and/or in a balanced state, depending upon the nature of the
baseline condition utilized.
[0022] Output from an individual with a balance disorder that can lead to a fall is shown in
FIG. 6. As shown in FIG. 6, the shaded areas indicate that the individual is going from heel
strike to mid-stance and then back to heel strike. During this gait cycle, the individual stays in
mid-stance and alternates pressure on the lateral aspect of the sole and then to the medial
aspect of the sole and then back again. By viewing the entire gait cycle in this manner, a
health care professional is better able to evaluate and understand the circumstances leading
up to and surrounding a loss of balance event that may have led to a fall. The baseline
condition for the output shown in FIG. 6 is a set of pressure values corresponding to a normal
gait pattern.
[0023] Another example of a useful graphical output is shown at FIG. 7 where longitudinal
pressure sensor data over a period of time has been collected and averaged to create mean
values for each gait phase. Here, an individual with pain or other dysfunction at any point in
either or both lower extremities may adopt a gait that imbalances weight-bearing and thereby
transmits imbalanced musculoskeletal, mechanical forces to the spine. These imbalanced
forces may be associated with back pain. The use of the gait analysis system and the
associate graphical output will help to assess the balance or lack thereof by allowing a
quantitative, comparative analysis of the pressure patterns and proportions of pressure being
exerted on the two different lower extremities over time. The baseline comparison for the
output shown in FIG. 7 is a set of pressure values corresponding to a normal gait pattern.
[0024] Yet another example of how showing at least a single gait cycle is beneficial is
represented in FIG. 8 where longitudinal pressure sensor data over a period of time has been

collected and averaged to create mean values for each gait phase. Here, an individual with
osteoarthritis of the knee associated with pain in the lateral aspect of that knee may adopt an
abnormal and deleterious gait. Such a gait might relieve pain in the short term and accelerate
knee joint destruction more quickly over time. The physiologic basis is to partially unload the
painful lateral aspect of that same knee by modifying components of the gait cycle to focus
weight-bearing on the lateral aspects of the sole of the foot of that extremity. By so doing,
most of the weight-bearing is shifted to the medial aspect of that knee joint. Such a change in
gait can be detected by measurement and analysis of the graphical output showing at least a
single gait cycle. In order to prevent further or more rapid deterioration of that knee joint, gait
training, including strength training, may be instituted and then monitored by the gait analyses
system over time. This condition is also partially represented at FIG. 9 where it is further
shown how the center of pressure (COP) of the foot undergoes a lateral shift. The graphical
output for any of the depictions shown in FIGS. 4-8 can also show the COP of the foot, or a
variance between the actual COP and a baseline condition COP. The baseline comparison
for the output shown in FIGS. 8 is a set of pressure values corresponding to a normal gait
pattern.
[0025] Referring back to FIG. 5, additional graphical information is presented regarding an
individual's gait that is not shown in FIG. 4. Specifically, FIG. 5 shows shear stress direction
and magnitude arrows for each gait phase in addition to applied torque for each gait phase.
Such information is enabled by locating biaxial shear stress sensors within the shoes 110,
120. In the particular embodiment shown, the total shear stress 224 is broken down into a
longitudinal shear stress 220 component and a lateral shear stress component 222. For
the purpose of clarity, these features are labeled on an enlarged footprint indicated by
dashed arrow A. The length, color and/or width of each of the shown arrows 220, 222,
224 can be related to the raw magnitude of the stress experienced by the sensor.
Alternatively, and as described previously for the pressure values, the length and/or width
of each arrow 220, 222, 224 can reflect the result of a comparison of measured values to a
baseline condition. For example, the measured shear stress values from a baseline test
can be compared to those acquired during a subsequent test. In this case, the magnitude
of the shear stress arrows would reflect the difference between the baseline and
subsequent test. Additionally, the direction of the shear stress arrows 220, 222, 224 can
be oriented to show the actual direction of the shear stress applied along the measured
axis, or the net direction of shear stress when compared to a baseline condition. It is
noted that the direction and relative magnitude of the arrows in FIG. 5 are schematic and
not intended to represent an actual or expected output from the system.          In the example
shown in FIG. 5, the longitudinal shear stress arrow 220 changes from a force applied in a
direction extending from the heal towards the toes during the heal strike gait phase 204, to
a net zero force during the mid-stance gait phase, to a force applied in a direction extending
from the toes towards the heal during the toe off gait phase. Through the use of the shear
stress sensors, it is also possible to calculate a torque value for each gait phase, and to
show a torque value arrow 226. Similarly to the shear stress arrows, the direction and

length/width/color of the torque arrow 226 can change depending on the magnitude and
direction of the torque applied to the shoe. Furthermore, the torque arrow 226, and the
shear stress arrows 220, 222, 224 can be arranged about a central axis 228 that
corresponds to the center of the applied torque.         It is also noted that other methods for
graphically depicting the magnitude and direction of the shear stress and torque values
besides the use of arrows is possible without departing from the concepts presented
herein. Furthermore, one skilled in the art will appreciate that values for these parameters
can be presented in tabular form wherein pressure, stress and torque can be shown in
isolation or together for easier viewing and analysis.
[0026] Referring to FIG. 10, a flow chart is shown that demonstrates steps that can be used
to arrive at the above described graphical output examples by using the gait analysis system
100. In a first step, the gait analysis system 100 is activated. This step can include outfitting
the individual with the shoes 110, 120 and unit 130, and enabling unit 130 to start recording
data. After the gait analysis system 100 is activated, unit 130 can acquire sensor and time
data over either a predetermined or open ended period of time. If desired, the health care
professional can guide the individual through a series of tests which can be used to establish
an initial baseline. This initial baseline can be used as the baseline condition, or can be
compared to another baseline condition for further analysis. The initial baseline can include
activities such as walking, running, and walking up or down stairs. During the actual testing
period, unit 130 will collect data until it is deactivated. After a desired period of time has
passed, or a desired amount of data has been collected, unit 130 can be returned to the
health care professional for analysis of the data.
[0027] Another step is for the health care professional to define parameters for segregating
and parsing the acquired data. Alternatively, the parameters can be pre- configured in the
system such that no input is needed from the health care professional. This step can be
performed before or after the previously described step of acquiring the sensor data. If this
step is performed before the data acquisition step, unit 130 can also be configured to acquire
only sensor data that is within the specified parameters rather than simply collecting all data.
Alternatively, a desired data subset can be extracted from the acquired data set after data
acquisition is complete. One example of a parameter for segregating the data includes
specifying that only data recorded during ambulatory periods is collected and/or analyzed.
This can be accomplished in unit 130 by monitoring for gait cycles that occur, for example
within a predefined period of time. This can also be accomplished through interaction with a
user interface, such as a button, that the individual can use to identify periods of ambulation.
An example of a parameter for parsing the acquired data to be analyzed includes defining
how sensor data are grouped into individual gait phases. This can be accomplished by
defining gait phases as a percentage of the contact time. For example, the gait phases can
be defined as: 1) heel strike phase being 0% to 15% of the total foot contact time with the
ground; 2) mid-stance phase being between 15% and 55% of the contact time; and 3) toe off
phase being 55% to 100% of the contact time. One skilled in the art will recognize that
other methods for parsing the acquired data to be analyzed into separate gait phases are

also possible. Another parameter for parsing the acquired data can be the specification of
how pressure sensor readings are grouped together.
[0028] Another step in the shown process is to define comparison parameters for
evaluating the acquired data. The comparison parameters are for setting up an analysis
that will allow a uniformity category to be assigned to each pressure sensor, or sensor
group, in the arrays. An example of a parameter for a comparison parameter is the
definition of the baseline condition. As stated previously, the baseline condition can be
established through a mean value and a mean deviation or variation threshold limit, or
through the selection of a range of values. Alternatively, the baseline condition can be
defined by a mean value, an upper deviation limit and a lower deviation limit.
Furthermore, the baseline condition can be established through the use of values derived
from a baseline test, a previous analysis, or a calculated normal gait for the individual. In
the above examples, the baseline condition enables the use of three possible outputs in
that the acquired data will either be above, below or within the baseline condition. It is also
noted that multiple baseline conditions can be established through the use of multiple
deviation limits, multiple ranges, or by other methods known in the art. As stated
previously, the relationship of the sensor values to the baseline condition provides the
basis for categorizing the sensor or senor groups into uniformity categories.
[0029] After all of the parameters or all of the selected parameters of interest have been
established, it is then possible for the gait analysis system to perform the necessary
calculations on the acquired data in order to assign an appropriate uniformity category.
One example of how these calculations can be performed is shown in FIG. 11 where gait
analysis system 100 acquires data over a period of time which is then parsed into
separate gait phases based on the defined parameters. After this step, a mean value is
calculated for each sensor for all readings acquired during each gait phase. In this
example, a mean value is also calculated for each sensor pair for all readings acquired
during each gait phase. The sensor pair mean value and a mean deviation limit value will
thus serve as the baseline condition against which the individual pressure sensor mean
values are compared. As such, a subsequent calculation step will be to determine
whether each individual sensor mean value is within, above or below the baseline condition.
Once this calculation is complete, the system can then categorize each sensor into a
uniformity category that is correlated to the relationship between the sensor mean value
and the baseline condition. As stated before, median values can be used in addition to, or
instead of, mean values.
[0030] Referring back to FIG. 10, once the categorization of the sensors and/or sensor
groups has occurred, the system can then create a graphical output showing at least one
complete gait cycle based on the uniformity categories. This is essentially accomplished
by assigning a color or tone to each pressure uniformity category. However, it should be
noted that it is possible to arrive at the graphical output shown in FIGS. 4-8 without
explicitly defining a uniformity category by simply assigning a color or tone to a
mathematical comparison of the sensor data to the baseline condition directly. In either

case, the graphical output is the direct result of a comparison between the sensor data and
the chosen baseline condition.      As such, a uniformity category will exist whether or not
actually defined in the system explicitly. It is further contemplated that a health care
professional can change any of the above identified parameters to generate additional
graphical outputs without the need to acquire additional data. For example, the health
care professional may want to compare the sensor data to a baseline condition relating to
a normal gait, and also to a previous test for the same individual to monitor progress over
time towards an ideal gait pattern.      Another example would be where the health care
professional wants to narrow or broaden the values for the baseline condition to evaluate
more or less extreme patterns in the individual's gait. Furthermore, the gait analysis
system 100 is also capable of displaying input and output tables, such as those shown in
FIGS. 12-16, which can provide a link to the graphical output for a particular gait cycle, or
for an exemplary gait cycle. FIG. 12 shows sample input data while FIG. 13 shows output
data values for a baseline data test. An output table showing a comparison between a
subsequent test and the baseline test is shown at FIGS. 14-16. It is also possible for the
graphical output system to allow the health care professional to scroll the graphical output
to see all of the gait cycles that have been recorded which is particularly useful in
analyzing the events that may have led up to a loss of balance and fall. As such, one
skilled in the art will appreciate that gait analysis system 100, and the graphical output it is
able to provide, greatly enhances a health care professional's ability to diagnose and treat
balance and gait disorders.
[0031] Given the above description it should be appreciated that gait analysis system 100 is
able to provide quantitative data during activities of daily living that can be used to identify
individuals who may be at risk for gait and/or balance disorders, and the potentially injurious
consequences of those disorders. Gait analysis system 100 is also able to enhance a health
care professional's ability to aid and monitor the rehabilitation and training of individuals who
either have or are at risk for gait and/or balance disorders.
[0032] The above are example principles. Many embodiments can be made.
[0033] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[0034] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
 'comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
further features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                                Claims:
1. A method for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the
method including the steps of:
        (a)     acquiring data from a first array comprising a plurality of shear sensors
                configured for placement in a left shoe and from a second array comprising a
                plurality of shear sensors configured for placement in a right shoe, the acquired
                data being separated into at least two separate gait phases for each array;
        (b)     comparing at least a portion of the acquired data to a baseline condition for each
                gait phase; and
        (c)     categorizing the sensors in each array, or a group of sensors in each array, into
                one of at least two uniformity categories for each gait phase based on the
                comparison of the acquired data to the baseline condition.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least two separate gait phases for each
array comprises a heel strike gait phase, a mid-stance gait phase, and a toe-off gait phase.
3.      The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the baseline condition comprises
data derived from a baseline test of the individual's gait, data derived from a previous analysis of
the individual's gait, pressure data derived from calculated normal gait values for the individual,
or data derived from the mean value of a corresponding pair of sensors or group of sensors in
each array.
4.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the step of comparing the
data acquired relating to each sensor or a group of sensors in the arrays to a baseline condition
includes comparing the acquired data to at least one deviation threshold value of the baseline
condition.
5.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein a deviation threshold value of
the baseline condition is defined for each gait phase.
6.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further comprising:
        (d)     creating a graphical output based on the uniformity category into which each
                sensor or group of sensors has been placed, the output showing at least one
                entire gait cycle wherein each gait phase is individually represented by a right
                footprint and a left footprint.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein:
        (e)     the graphical output shows shaded, patterned or colored areas correlating to the
                uniformity cateaorv for each shear sensor on each footorint for each aait ohase in

                the gait cycle, the shaded, patterned or colored areas also being shown on each
                footprint at a location corresponding to the actual sensor location within the shoe.
8.  The method according to claim 7, wherein each shaded, patterned or colored area is
blended or transitioned together with an adjacent shaded, patterned or colored area.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the graphical output further includes showing a
value for shear stress for each gait phase.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the graphical output further includes showing a
longitudinal component and a lateral component for the shear stress value.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the shear stress and component values are
shown with arrows.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the graphical output further includes a torque
value arrow for each gait phase.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the graphical output further includes a torque
value arrow for each gait phase.
14. A method for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the
method including the steps of:
        (a)   acquiring data from a first array comprising a plurality of pressure sensors
              configured for placement in a left shoe and from a second array comprising a
              plurality of pressure sensors configured for placement in a right shoe, the acquired
              data being separated into at least two separate gait phases for each array;
        (b)   comparing at least a portion of the acquired data to a baseline condition for each
              gait phase; and
        (c)   categorizing the sensors in each array, or a group of sensors in each array, into
              one of at least two uniformity categories for each gait phase based on the
              comparison of the acquired data to the baseline condition.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the at least two separate gait phases for each
array comprises a heel strike gait phase, a mid-stance gait phase, and a toe-off gait phase.
16.     The method according to claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the baseline condition comprises
data derived from a baseline test of the individual's gait, data derived from a previous analysis of
the individual's gait, pressure data derived from calculated normal gait values for the individual,

or data derived from the mean value of a corresponding pair of sensors or group of sensors in
each array.
17.     The method according to any one of claims 14 to 15, wherein the step of comparing the
data acquired relating to each sensor or a group of sensors in the arrays to a baseline condition
includes comparing the acquired data to at least one deviation threshold value of the baseline
condition.
19. A method for analyzing the gait of an individual wearing a left shoe and a right shoe, the
    method including the steps of:
    a. acquiring data onto a computerized storage device:
            i. the acquired data comprising sensor and time information being from a first array of
                sensors disposed in a left shoe and a second array of sensors disposed in a right
                shoe;
           ii. each sensor in the first array having a corresponding and similarly located sensor
                in the second array that together form a sensor pair;
              b. creating a data evaluation set, including the steps of:
            i. parsing at least some of the acquired data into at least two separate gait phases for
                each array;
           ii. calculating a mean value for each sensor for each similar gait phase; and
         iii. calculating a mean value for each sensor pair for each similar gait phase;
         iv. analyzing the data evaluation set, including the steps of:
          v. comparing, for each gait phase, the mean value for each sensor to the sensor pair
                mean value and to a mean deviation limit value; and
         vi. categorizing each sensor into one of at least two uniformity categories for each gait
                phase on the basis of the comparison; and
              c.creating a graphical output based on the category into which each sensor has been
                  placed, the output showing at least one entire gait cycle wherein each gait phase
                  is individually represented by a right footprint and a left footprint.
20. The method according to claim 18, wherein the first array of sensors and the second array of
    sensors include shear stress sensors.
21. The method according to claim 18, wherein the first array of sensors and the second array of
    sensors include shear stress sensors and pressure sensors.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
