MEDIA APPLICATION BACKGROUNDING
ABSTRACT
A method, computing device and computer readable instructions are disclosed. In one aspect, the method
comprises providing, by a first application executed by a processing device in a computing
device, a playback of a media item received from a content platform, wherein the media item
comprises a video portion and an audio portion, and wherein the playback of the video portion
occurs on a display device of the computing device; in response to the first application entering
a background state during the playback of the media item, stopping the playback of the video
portion on the display device while continuing to provide the playback of the audio portion
while the first application is in the background state by sending a request to the content platform
to continue sending the audio portion without sending the video portion; and in response to the
first application entering a foreground state during the playback of the audio portion without the
playback of the video portion, resuming the playback of the video portion, wherein resuming
comprises coordinating synchronization of the playback of the video portion with the playback
of the audio portion that continued to be provided while the first application was in the
background state.

                                                   1
MEDIA APPLICATION BACKGROUNDING
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015210937, filed on 29 January 2015. The contents of Australian Patent Application No.
2015210937 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    Implementations of the present disclosure relate to content delivery, and more
specifically, to media playback on a device.
BACKGROUND
[0003]    The Internet allows people to obtain information, connect with others and share
information with each other. Common Internet destinations include news websites, content
sharing platforms, social networking websites, and the like. Many websites and platforms
include a content sharing aspect that allows users to view, upload, and share media items, such
as video content, image content, audio content, and so on. Users can consume the media items
from their user devices.
SUMMARY
[0004]    The following is a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic
understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of
the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure, nor
delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the disclosure or any scope of the
claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a
prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.
[0005]    In one aspect, a method includes providing, by an application executed by a processing
device, a playback of a media item that includes a video portion and an audio portion. The
method further includes receiving, by the application, a first message during the playback of the
media item. The method further includes in response to the first message, stopping the playback

                                                   2
of the video portion of the media item while continuing to provide the audio portion of the
media item. The method further includes receiving, by the application, a second message while
providing the audio portion of the media item. The method further includes in response to the
second message, resuming the playback of the video portion of the media item in
synchronization with the audio portion being provided.
[0006]     Implementations can include any, all, or none of the following features. The method
can include providing the playback of the media item, receiving a request to playback the media
item, and reserving one or more resources associated with the playback of the media item in
response to the request. The method can further include stopping the playback of the video
portion of the media item and releasing at least one of the one or more resources. The one or
more resources can include at least one of: a memory, a video decoder, or a video player.
Releasing at least one of the one or more resources can include at least one of: clearing video
data from a buffer, stopping a download of the video portion, or closing a network connection
used for requesting the video portion. Resuming the presentation of the video portion of the
media item can include reacquiring the released one or more resources. The first message can
be at least one of: an indication that the application can have entered a background state on a
mobile device, an indication that a display of the mobile device can be powered off, or an
indication that a second application can have entered a foreground state on the mobile device.
The second message can be an indication that the application can have entered a foreground
state on the mobile device. The presentation of the video portion of the media item can be
resumed without interrupting the presentation of the audio portion. The video portion can be
initially presented at a first quality and wherein resuming the presentation of the video portion of
the media item can include presenting the video portion at a second quality. The method can
include presenting, via a graphical user interface, a message that the presentation of the video
portion is to resume. The method can include receiving the video portion and the audio portion
from different sources. The method can include receiving the video portion and the audio
portion of the media item as a single file. The method can further include separating the video
portion and the audio portion into separate files.
[0007]     In additional implementations, computing devices for performing the operations of the
above described implementations are also disclosed. Additionally, in implementations of the
disclosure, a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of
the above described implementations.

                                                   3
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]    The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in
the figures of the accompanying drawings.
[0009]    Figure 1 illustrates an example system architecture, in accordance with one
implementation of the disclosure.
[0010]    Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for providing efficient media
application backgrounding on a client device, according to some implementations of the
disclosure.
[0011]    Figure 3 illustrates two example timelines for providing efficient media application
backgrounding on a client device, according to some implementations of the disclosure.
[0012]    Figure 4 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary computer system, according to
some implementations.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0013]    Described herein is a mechanism for improving media consumption on a client device.
Conventional client devices can stream media items from content sharing platforms. A media
application on the client device can play the streamed media items on the client device using a
media player. A user may desire to operate another feature or other application on the client
device such that the audio portion of the video continues to play while the video portion is no
longer displayed on the client device. For example, the user may wish to use other applications
or turn the client device screen off while the audio portion continues to play. In turn, the user
can minimize, close or otherwise cause the media application to enter a background state. A
background state can refer to a state, in which an application continues to run while no longer
being visible and an application in the background state can refer to a "backgrounded"
application.
[0014]    Conventional client devices typically do not permit dynamically and independently
adding and/or removing video and audio streams during playback of a media item. Although a
conventional client device can background a media application that is playing a video, the media

                                                  4
application usually continues to run and process audio and video data (e.g., download, decode,
cache) in spite of the video not being visible on-screen. When backgrounding a media
application, conventional client devices typically also hold on to system resources, such as
memory (for buffering data), network sockets and video decoders. In addition, some
conventional devices can receive media items in non-multiplexed formats, where synchronized
video and audio portions of a video are delivered separately. During playback, the client device
generally renders the synchronized video and audio streams simultaneously. Conventional
systems usually do not operate differently when the media application is backgrounded, which
may cause an unnecessary consumption of resources. Mobile devices typically have a limited
number of resources, which means that conventional approaches can prevent another application
from using the resources.
[0015]    Implementations of the present disclosure address the above deficiencies of
conventional systems by providing a mechanism for controlling independent playback of a
video portion of a media item and an audio portion of the media item. An application on a client
device provides playback of a media item that includes a video portion and an audio portion. At
any time, the application can stop playback of the video portion of the media item while
continuing to provide the audio portion. Later, the application can resume playback of the video
portion in synchronization with the audio portion that is being provided.
[0016]    Techniques described herein can reduce the cost of operating an application in
background mode. While the application is not presenting the video portion, the application can
stop downloading the video portion, pause decoding any downloaded video data and clear any
associated memory. By releasing these and other resources, network and battery consumption of
the client device can be reduced as a result. Users often do not desire to download video they do
not intend to watch, as it uses data and bandwidth. Further, the audio portion can be seamlessly
provided throughout the application transitioning from foreground to background and back to
foreground.
[0017]    For brevity and simplicity, implementations herein are described with respect to a
media item that includes an audio portion and a video portion. The media item can include any
number of portions of any type. For example, portions of the media item can include audio,
video, subtitle data, a stream of overlaid data, annotations, advertisements, comments, metadata,
information about the content of the media item (e.g., actors, related movies, music tracks, facial

                                                  5
recognition, and the like). Any of the portions can be handled using the techniques described
herein.
[0018]    Figure 1 illustrates an example system architecture 100, in accordance with one
implementation of the disclosure, for independently providing a playback of a media item that
includes a video portion and an audio portion. The system architecture 100 includes any number
of client devices 102, a network 104, a data store 106, and a content sharing platform 110. In
one implementation, network 104 may include a public network (e.g., the Internet), a private
network (e.g., a local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN)), a wired network (e.g.,
Ethernet network), a wireless network (e.g., an 802.11 network or a Wi-Fi network), a cellular
network (e.g., a Long Term Evolution (LTE) network), routers, hubs, switches, server
computers, and/or a combination thereof.
[0019]    In one implementation, the data store 106 may be a memory (e.g., random access
memory), a cache, a drive (e.g., a hard drive), a flash drive, a database system, a distributed
database, a distributed storage, or another type of component or device capable of storing data.
The data store 106 may also include multiple storage components (e.g., multiple drives or
multiple databases) that may also span multiple computing devices (e.g., multiple server
computers). The data store 106 can store media items and portions of media items, such as audio
portions and video portions. The data store 106 can include a video source 118 of a video
portion of a media item. Similarly, the data store 106 can include an audio source 120 of an
audio portion of a media item. In implementations, the video source 118 and the audio source
120 are stored on the same data store 106. In another implementation, the video source 118 and
the audio source 120 are stored on different data stores. In implementations, the different data
stores can be owned and/or operated by one entity. Alternatively, or the different data stores can
be owned and/or operated by multiple separate entities For example, the video source 118 is
owned and operated by a first entity and the audio source 120 is owned and operated by a
second entity. The client device 102 can receive the separate video and audio streams from these
two different entities.
[0020]    The client devices 102 may each include computing devices such as personal
computers (PCs), laptops, mobile phones, smart phones, tablet computers, netbook computers
etc. In some implementations, client device 102 may also be referred to as a "user device."
Each client device includes a media player 112. In one implementation, the media player 112

                                                  6
may be an application or part of an application that allows users to view content, such as images,
videos, web pages, documents, etc. For example, the media player 112 may be a web browser
that can access, retrieve, present, and/or navigate content (e.g., web pages such as Hyper Text
Markup Language (HTML) pages, digital media items, etc.) served by a web server. The media
player 112 may render, display, and/or present the content (e.g., a web page, a media viewer) to
a user, such as via a graphical user interface (GUI). The media player 112 may also display an
embedded media player (e.g., a Flash® player or an HTML5 player) that is embedded in a web
page (e.g., a web page that may provide information about a product sold by an online
merchant). In another example, the media player 112 may be a standalone application that
allows users to view digital media items (e.g., digital videos, digital images, electronic books,
etc.).
[0021]    The media player 112 may be provided to the client devices 102 by a server (not
shown) and/or the content sharing platform 110. For example, the media player 112 may be an
embedded media player that is embedded in a web page provided by the content sharing
platform 110. In another example, the media player 112 may be an application that is
downloaded from the server.
[0022]    In one implementation, the content sharing platform 110 may be one or more
computing devices (such as a rackmount server, a router computer, a server computer, a
personal computer, a mainframe computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a desktop
computer, etc.), data stores (e.g., hard disks, memories, databases), networks, software
components, and/or hardware components that may be used to provide a user with access to
media items and/or provide the media items to the user. For example, the content sharing
platform 110 may allow a user to consumer, upload, search for, approve of ("like"), dislike,
and/or comment on media items. The content sharing platform 110 may also include a website
(e.g., a webpage) that may be used to provide a user with access to the media items. Content
sharing platform 110 may include any type of content delivery network providing access to
content and/or media items and can include a social network, a news outlet, a media aggregator,
and the like. The content sharing platform 110 can use the media item data store 106 to provide
a media item to the client device 102. The content sharing platform 110 causes the client device
102 to receive media items from one or more data stores, such as from media item data store
106. In implementations, the content sharing platform 110 includes the media item data store
106. In other implementations, the media item data store 106 is not part of the content sharing

                                                 7
platform 110. The content sharing platform 110 can be communicably coupled to the media item
data store 106. When handling a user request for a media item, the content sharing platform 110
can interact with the media item data store 106 to provide the requested media item to the client
device 102.
[0023]    The content sharing platform 110 can present or provide a list of available media items
to a client device 102. Examples of a media item can include, and are not limited to, digital
video, digital movies, digital photos, photo albums, digital music, website content, social media
updates, video-on-demand, live-streamed media, electronic books (ebooks), electronic
magazines, digital newspapers, digital audio books, electronic journals, web log (blog) entries,
real simple syndication (RSS) feeds, electronic comic books, software applications,
advertisements, etc. In some implementations, media item is also referred to as a content item.
[0024]    A media item may be consumed via the Internet and/or via a client application, such as
the media player 112 of client device 102. For brevity and simplicity, an online video (also
herein referred to as a video) is used as an example of a media item throughout this document.
As used herein, "media," media item," "online media item," "digital media," "digital media
item," "content," and "content item" can include one or more electronic files that can be
executed or loaded using software, firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media
item to an entity.
[0025]    In implementations, the client device 102 includes a media item playback manager 114.
The media item playback manager 114 controls playback of a media item that includes two
separate portions or streams. One of the portions can be an audio portion and the other can be a
video portion. The client device 102 receives the video portion from the video source 118 and
the audio portion from the audio source 120. The video and audio portions can be delivered in
any format and using any technology or protocol, such as HTTP Live Streaming (HLS),
Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (DASH), Adobe Dynamic Streaming for Flash®,
Microsoft® Smooth Streaming, Octoshape Multi-BitRate, etc. The media item playback
manager 114 coordinates synchronized playback of the video and audio portions of the media
item in the media player 112 and can reserve resources, as described herein.
[0026]    The media item playback manager 114 can receive an indication to alter playback of
the media item. The indication can be, for example, a message (such as a preference or

                                                  8
command) from an operating system 116. Alternatively, the media item playback manager 114
can receive the indication from any component of the client device 102 or from a user. The
indication can be at least one of: an indication that the media player 112 is no longer a primary
application, an indication that the media player 112 has entered a background state on the client
device 102, an indication that a display of the client device 102 is powered off, an indication that
a second application has entered a foreground state on the client device 102, that video
associated with the media player 112 has a lower priority, or a request received from a user via
an interface or button to background the media player 112. The indication may be provided by
the operating system 116 to the media item playback manager 114 to stop playback of the video
portion of the media player. In response to the indication, the media item playback manager 114
can stop the playback of the video portion of the media item within the media player 112 while
continuing to provide the audio portion of the media item.
[0027]    In implementations, the operating system 116 can track when an application presenting
a media item (e.g., the media player 112) enters the foreground state and when it enters the
background state. The media item playback manager 114 can receive a signal, indication or
message from the operating system 116 when the application (media player 112) has entered the
background state.
[0028]    Upon receiving the signal, the media item playback manager 114 can release any
resources associated with downloading and playing a video. The media item playback manager
114 can start a process to clear a video buffer and release video memory, a video decoder, close
a network socket, and the like. In some implementations, the media item playback manager 114
can hold some resources for some period of time. Holding resources can be beneficial for
performance reasons, such as when an application enters a background state and then quickly
enters a foreground state. In another example, the media item playback manager 114 can release
a video decoder, but continue to download data such that when the application enters the
foreground state, the media player can begin decoding the video portion for a quick resume. In
some implementations, the media item playback manager 114 can hold some resources and then
release them after a period of time.
[0029]    Subsequently, the media item playback manager 114 can receive a second indication to
alter playback of the media item while the media player 112 is providing the audio portion of the
media item. The second indication can be to initiate or resume playback of the video portion

                                                  9
during playback of the audio portion (e.g., when the media player 112 enters a foreground state).
The second indication can be, for example, a message (such as a preference or command) from
an operating system 116 that the media player 112 is now a primary application, an indication
that the media player 112 has entered a foreground state on the client device 102, an indication
that a display of the client device 102 is powered on, or that video associated with the media
player 112 has a high display priority. In response to the second indication, the media item
playback manager 114 can instruct the media player 112 to resume the playback of the video
portion of the media item in synchronization with the audio portion that is being provided.
[0030]    In implementations, the content sharing platform 110 provides an index of the audio
portion and the video portion that informs the client device 102 how to synchronize the audio
and video portions during playback. For example, the audio and video portions can be time
indexed. When the media player 112 begins playing the media item from the beginning, the
media player 112 plays back the audio and video portions from time     = 0, as indicated by the
index. When resuming the video portion, the media item playback manager 114 can identify
where in time the playing audio falls in relation to the index. The media item playback manager
114 can then instruct the media player 112 to resume the video portion at a corresponding place
in time. Also, when resuming the video portion, the media item playback manager 114 can
reacquire any released resources (e.g., video decoder, buffer (reallocate memory), open network
sockets to download the video portion, etc.). While this is happening, the media player 112
continues to play the audio. Once the video portion is available and ready for playback, the
media item playback manager 114 can again identify where in time the playing audio falls in
relation to the index. By knowing the position of the audio, the media item playback manager
114 can instruct the media player 112 to resume playback of the video portion in
synchronization with the playing audio portion.
[0031]    In general, functions described in one implementation as being performed by the client
device 102 can also be performed on the content sharing platform 110 in other implementations
if appropriate. Similarly, functions described in one implementation as being performed by the
content sharing platform 110 can also be performed on the client devices 102 in other
implementations if appropriate. In addition, the functionality attributed to a particular
component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. For
example, the media player 112 and the media item playback manager 114 can operate within a
single application. The content sharing platform 110 can also be accessed as a service provided

                                                  10
to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs), and
thus is not limited to use in websites.
[0032]     In some implementations, the media player 112 and the media item playback manager
114 are part of the same application. In an implementation, the media item playback manager
114 is part of the operating system 116.
[0033]     In further implementations, the media item playback manager 114 can download a
lower quality video when in a background state for fast resume and minimal network usage. The
media item playback manager 114 can request higher quality video which the media player 112
can play when received. In some implementations, when resuming the video portion download,
the media item playback manager 114 can decrease the quality of the audio portion to give more
bandwidth to resume the video.
[0034]     In implementations, the media item playback manager 114 can identify current network
conditions. When the media item playback manager 114 determines that it cannot reliably
receive the video portion, such as due to the current network conditions, the media item
playback manager 114 can trigger an audio-only mode until the video portion can be reliably
received. The media item playback manager 114 can prompt a user via a GUI of the low video
reliability. The user can elect to proceed with audio only and the media item playback manager
114 can receive such input via the GUI and can proceed accordingly.
[0035]     In some implementations, the audio portion and the video portion are delivered via a
single connection, stream or file. The media item playback manager 114 or the operating system
116 can inform the content platform 110 when the media player 112 enters the background state
or to send the audio portion and not the video portion. The content platform 110 can stop the
delivery of the video portion via the single connection. In some implementations, when the
audio portion and the video portion are delivered as a single combined file, the file can include
identifiers of the video and audio portions that the media item playback manager 114 can use to
separate the two portions at the client.
[0036]     In implementations, the media item can be associated with a live stream or live event
(e.g., an online lecture or presentation, a video game stream). For live streams and events, the
media item can be packaged in segments, such as by time (e.g., five second packets) or by size

                                                   11
(e.g., one megabyte packets). Audio packets can have a different size than the video packets. For
example, the audio packets can be five seconds in length and the video packets can be ten
seconds. The audio and video portions of the media item can correspond to each other but can
be packaged separately. For example, a media item can be divided into 200 sequenced packets.
The audio and video portions can likewise be divided into sequenced 200 packets, with each
packet corresponding to the same moment in time (e.g., the       2 7th packet of the video and audio
portions correspond to the same moment in time). When stopping the video portion, the media
item playback manager 114 can instruct the media player 112 to not play the next sequenced
packet. When resuming the video portion, the media item playback manager 114 can identify
which audio packet is currently playing and can instruct the media player 112 to start playing
the next video packet at the same time it starts to play the next audio packet. In implementations,
the media item playback manager 114 can also request and/or the next video packet from the
content sharing platform 110.
[0037]     In other implementations, a software developer or an end user can configure the media
item playback manager 114. For example, a GUI can be provided to allow an end user to view
some or all of the functionality of the media item playback manager 114 and modify it as
needed. In another example, the content sharing platform 110 can provide an API to allow a
software developer to configure the media item playback manager 114.
[0038]     In some implementations, information, such as metadata, that corresponds to the media
item currently playing back in the media player 112 in the background may be shown in a media
item information portion of a user interface of the client device 102. For example, information
about a video, such as its title, view count, likes, etc. can be presented. Additional menu options
related to the media item currently playing in the background may also be presented, such as
play, pause, stop, fast forward, rewind, social post, add comment, etc. In another
implementation, the information that corresponds to the media item may be presented in a semi
transparent format (e.g., as a semi-transparent overlay or layer) while the user is performing
other activities on the client device 102.
[0039]     Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating a method 200 for providing efficient media
application backgrounding on a client device, according to some implementations of the
disclosure. The method 200 may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware
(e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, etc.), software (e.g.,

                                                   12
instructions run on a processing device to perform hardware simulation), or a combination
thereof.
[0040]     For simplicity of explanation, the methods of this disclosure are depicted and described
as a series of acts. However, acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders
and/or concurrently, and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore, not
all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed
subject matter. In addition, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the
methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or
events. Additionally, it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification
are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and
transferring such methods to computing devices. The term "article of manufacture," as used
herein, is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable
device or storage media. In one implementation, method 200 may be performed by an
application, such as the media player 112 or the media item playback manager 114, or a
combination thereof, as further described in conjunction with Figure 1.
[0041]     Referring to Figure 2, method 200 begins at block 202 when processing logic receives
a request to playback a media item having a video portion and an audio portion. The request can
be received as user input, such as via a touch screen of a client device. At block 204, the
processing logic reserves one or more resources associated with the playback of the media item
in response to the request. The one or more resources can be, for example, a memory, a buffer, a
video decoder, network socket, or a video player. The processing logic receives the media item
from one or more sources.
[0042]     At block 206, the processing logic presents the media item, which can include
providing a playback of the media item via a display of the client device. At block 208, the
processing logic receives a first message during the playback of the media item.
[0043]     At block 210, in response to the first message, the processing logic stops the playback
of the video portion of the media item while continuing to provide the audio portion of the
media item. At block 212, the processing logic releases at least one of the one or more resources
associated with the playback of the media item. For example, when releasing the at least one of
the one or more resources, the processing logic can include at least one of: clearing video data

                                                   13
from a buffer, stopping a download of the video portion, or closing a network connection used
for requesting the video portion.
[0044]    At block 214, the processing logic receives a second message while providing the audio
portion of the media item. In implementations, the second message is an indication that an
application executed by the processing logic has entered a foreground state on the client device.
At block 216, the processing logic reacquires the released resource(s). At block 218 and in
response to the second message, the processing logic resumes the playback of the video portion
of the media item in synchronization with the audio portion being provided. In implementations,
the processing logic resumes presentation of the video portion of the media item without
interrupting the presentation of the audio portion.
[0045]    In implementations, the processing logic presents the video portion initially at a first
quality level or bitrate and when resuming the presentation of the video portion of the media
item, the processing logic presents the video portion at a second quality level or bitrate. For
example, the second quality can be higher than the first quality due to improved network
resources.
[0046]    Figure 3 illustrates two example timelines 302, 304 for providing efficient media
application backgrounding on a client device, according to some implementations of the
disclosure. Intervals and events are used to illustrate activities. Length or dimensions of the
intervals are not indicative of a particular time or duration, nor are they indicative of any time or
duration relative to each other. Any interval can be any amount or duration of time.
[0047]    In a first example, run 302, an application on a client device, such as the client device
102 illustrated in conjunction with Figure 1, plays both an audio portion and a video portion of
a media item during interval 306. At event 308, the application receives a first message and, in
response to the message, stops playback of the video portion while continuing to playback the
audio portion, as described herein. During interval 310, the application releases video resources
and by the end of interval 312, the video resources are released. At event 314, the application
receives a second message. In response to the second message received at event 314, the
application acquires video resources during interval 316. Once the video resources are acquired,
the application can resume playback of the video portion of the media item while continuing to
playback the audio portion during interval 306.

                                                   14
[0048]    In a second example, run 304, the application functions similarly to the first example,
run 302. The second example further includes a joining window 320 which is an allowable
duration for the application to acquire video resources and to begin playing the video portion in
synchronization with the audio portion. The duration of the joining window 320 can be a
predetermined amount of time (e.g., five seconds). Alternatively, the duration of the joining
window 320 can be dynamic and can depend on any variable pertaining to the media item. For
example, a duration of the joining window 320 can be a remaining duration of an audio data
packet that is currently being played. During the joining window 320, the client device can
render a prompt to indicate to a user that the video is loading, buffering, etc. For example, the
prompt can include a thumbnail, a spinner, a message, and the like. The prompt can be displayed
until the video portion resumes. In implementations, the client device can resume the video
portion at a lower quality or bitrate for fast resume and can dynamically adjust the video quality
or bitrate. If the video portion is not played or resumed within the joining window 320, then the
application can pause the audio (e.g., for duration of interval 322) until the video portion is
ready for playback.
[0049]    Figure 4 illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of
a computer system 400 within which a set of instructions, for causing the machine to perform
any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein, may be executed. In alternative
implementations, the machine may be connected (e.g., networked) to other machines in a LAN,
an intranet, an extranet, or the Internet. The machine may operate in the capacity of a server or
a client machine in client-server network environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or
distributed) network environment. The machine may be a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC,
a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a
server, a network router, switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set of
instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further,
while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any
collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions
to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
[0050]    The example computer system 400 includes a processing device (processor) 402, a
main memory 404 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access
memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.),

                                                  15
a static memory 406 (e.g., flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and a
data storage device 416, which communicate with each other via a bus 408.
[0051]    Processor 402 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a
microprocessor, central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processor 402 may
be a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set
computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or a
processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of
instruction sets. The processor 402 may also be one or more special-purpose processing devices
such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array
(FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processor 402 is
configured to execute instructions 426 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
[0052]    The computer system 400 may further include a network interface device 422. The
computer system 400 also may include a video display unit 410 (e.g., a liquid crystal display
(LCD), a cathode ray tube (CRT), or a touch screen), an alphanumeric input device 412 (e.g., a
keyboard), a cursor control device 414 (e.g., a mouse), and a signal generation device 420 (e.g.,
a speaker).
[0053]    The data storage device 416 may include a computer-readable storage medium 424 on
which is stored one or more sets of instructions 426 (e.g., software) embodying any one or more
of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 426 may also reside,
completely or at least partially, within the main memory 404 and/or within the processor 402
during execution thereof by the computer system 400, the main memory 404 and the processor
402 also constituting computer-readable storage media. The instructions 426 may further be
transmitted or received over a network 418 via the network interface device 422.
[0054]    In one implementation, the instructions 426 include instructions for a media player or a
media item playback manager, which may correspond, respectively, to the media player 112 or
the media item playback manager 114 described with respect to Figure 1, and/or a software
library containing methods that provide a media player or a media item playback manager.
While the computer-readable storage medium 424 is shown in an example implementation to be
a single medium, the term "computer-readable storage medium" should be taken to include a
single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and/or associated

                                                  16
caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term "computer-readable
storage medium" shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding
or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to
perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term "computer
readable storage medium" shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state
memories, optical media, and magnetic media.
[0055]    In the foregoing description, numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent,
however, to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure, that the present
disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known
structures and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail, in order to avoid
obscuring the present disclosure.
[0056]    Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms
and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These
algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data
processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.
An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps leading
to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.
Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals
capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has
proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as
bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
[0057]    It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be
associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to
these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion,
it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as
"segmenting", "analyzing", "determining", "enabling", "identifying," "modifying" or the like,
refer to the actions and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device,
that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (e.g., electronic) quantities within
the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical
quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage,
transmission or display devices.

                                                  17
[0058]    The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This
apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may include a general
purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the
computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium,
such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs,
and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs),
EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing
electronic instructions.
[0059]    The words "example" or "exemplary" are used herein to mean serving as an example,
instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as "example' or "exemplary" is
not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.
Rather, use of the words "example" or "exemplary" is intended to present concepts in a concrete
fashion. As used in this application, the term "or" is intended to mean an inclusive "or" rather
than an exclusive "or". That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, "X includes A
or B" is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X includes A; X
includes B; or X includes both A and B, then "X includes A or B" is satisfied under any of the
foregoing instances. In addition, the articles "a" and "an" as used in this application and the
appended claims should generally be construed to mean "one or more" unless specified
otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover, use of the term "an
implementation" or "one implementation" throughout is not intended to mean the same
implementation unless described as such.
[0060]    Reference throughout this specification to "one implementation" or "an
implementation" means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation. Thus, the
appearances of the phrase "in one implementation" or "in an implementation" in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. In
addition, the term "or" is intended to mean an inclusive "or" rather than an exclusive "or."
[0061]    It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative, and not
restrictive. Many other implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading
and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should, therefore, be
determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to

                                18
which such claims are entitled.

                                                   19
CLAIMS
1.      A method comprising:
        providing, by a first application executed by a processing device in a computing device,
a playback of a media item received from a content platform, wherein the media item comprises
a video portion and an audio portion, and wherein the playback of the video portion occurs on a
display device of the computing device;
        in response to the first application entering a background state during the playback of the
media item, stopping the playback of the video portion on the display device while continuing to
provide the playback of the audio portion while the first application is in the background state
by sending a request to the content platform to continue sending the audio portion without
sending the video portion; and
        in response to the first application entering a foreground state during the playback of the
audio portion without the playback of the video portion, resuming the playback of the video
portion, wherein resuming comprises coordinating synchronization of the playback of the video
portion with the playback of the audio portion that continued to be provided while the first
application was in the background state.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein providing the playback of the media item comprises:
        receiving a request to start the playback of the media item; and
        reserving one or more resources associated with the playback of the media item in
response to receiving the request to start the playback, wherein stopping the playback of the
video portion comprises releasing at least one resource from the resources, and wherein the
resource is associated with the playback of the video portion.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the resource comprises at least one of: a memory, a
buffer, a video decoder, or a video player.
4.      The method of claim 2, wherein releasing the resource comprises performing at least one
of: clearing video data from a buffer or closing a network connection used for requesting the
video portion.
5.      The method of claim 2, wherein resuming the playback of the video portion comprises
reacquiring the released resource.

                                                   20
6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the playback of the video portion is resumed without
interrupting the playback of the audio portion.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the playback of the video portion is initially at a first
quality and wherein resuming the playback of the video portion is at a second quality.
8.      The method of claim 1 further comprising presenting, via a graphical user interface, a
message that the playback of the video portion is to resume.
9.      The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving the video portion and the audio
portion from different sources.
10.     The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        receiving the video portion and the audio portion as a single connection, stream, or file;
and
        separating the video portion and the audio portion into separate files.
11.     A computing device comprising:
        a display device; and
        a processing device configured to:
                provide, by a first application executed by the processing device in the computing
device, a playback of a media item received from a content platform, wherein the media item
comprises a video portion and an audio portion, and wherein the playback of the video portion
occurs on the display device of the computing device;
                in response to the first application entering a background state during the
playback of the media item, stop the playback of the video portion on the display device while
continuing to provide the playback of the audio portion while the first application is in the
background state by sending a request to the content platform to continue sending the audio
portion without sending the video portion; and
                in response to the first application entering a foreground state during the
playback of the audio portion without the playback of the video portion, resume the playback of
the video portion, wherein, to resume the playback of the video portion, the processing device is
to coordinate synchronization of the playback of the video portion with the playback of the

                                                   21
audio portion that continued to be provided while the first application was in the background
state.
12.     The computing device of claim 11, wherein, to provide the playback of the media item,
the processing device is to:
        receive a request to start the playback of the media item; and
        reserve one or more resources associated with the playback of the media item in
response to receipt of the request to start the playback, wherein, to stop the playback of the
video portion, the processing device is to release at least one resource from the resources, and
wherein the resource is associated with the playback of the video portion.
13.     The computing device of claim 12, wherein the resource comprises at least one of: a
memory, a buffer, a video decoder, or a video player.
14.     The computing device of claim 12, wherein, to release the resource, the processing
device is to perform at least one of: clear video data from a buffer or close a network connection
used for requesting the video portion.
15.     The computing device of claim 12, wherein, to resume the playback of the video portion,
the processing device is to reacquire the released resource.
16.     A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein that, when
executed by a processing device in a computing device, cause the processing device to:
        provide, by a first application executed by the processing device in the computing
device, a playback of a media item received from a content platform over a network, wherein
the media item comprises a video portion and an audio portion, and wherein the playback of the
video portion occurs on a display device of the computing device;
        identify a first condition of the network during the receipt of the video portion from the
content platform;
        determining that the video portion cannot reliably be received from the content platform
based on the condition of the network;
        in response to the determination that the video portion cannot reliably be received, stop
the playback of the video portion on the display device while continuing to provide the playback
of the audio portion while determined that the video portion cannot reliably be received; and

                                                   22
        in response to a determination that the video portion can reliably be received from the
content platform, resume the playback of the video portion, wherein, to resume the playback of
the video portion, the processing device is to coordinate synchronization of the playback of the
video portion with the playback of the audio portion that continued to be provided while
determined that the video portion could not reliably be received.
17.     The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein, to provide the playback of the
media item, the processing device is to:
        receive a request to start the playback of the media item; and
        reserve one or more resources associated with the playback of the media item in
response to receipt of the request to start the playback, wherein, to stop the playback of the
video portion, the processing device is to release at least one resource from the resources, and
wherein the resource is associated with the playback of the video portion.
18.     The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the resource comprises at least one
of: a memory, a buffer, a video decoder, or a video player.
19.     The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein, to release the resource, the
processing device is to perform at least one of: clear video data from a buffer or close a network
connection used for requesting the video portion.
20.     The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein, to resume the playback of the video
portion, the processing device is to reacquire the released resource.
                                             Google LLC
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                              <U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E>
<removed-date>   100
<removed-apn>
                           Media Item Data Store
                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704>         <U+2720><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704>
                             118                   120
                                                       106
                                                               <U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2704><U+261E><U+270C>
                                <U+2723><U+2704><U+270C><U+2724><U+260E><U+271E><U+2717>                        <U+2706><U+2719><U+2711><U+271E><U+2701><U+261E><U+2718>
                                                               <U+2712><U+261B><U+2711><U+270C><U+271A><U+260E><U+271E><U+2715>
                                   104                                110
                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+2704><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2704><U+270E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2704>
                    <U+270F><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2711><U+2713><U+2704><U+271E>          <U+270F><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2711> <U+2714><U+270C><U+2704><U+2715>
                                           <U+2712><U+261B><U+2711><U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+271F><U+2717>
                                           <U+270F><U+2711><U+261E><U+2711><U+2718><U+2704><U+271E>
                             112                   114
                           <U+271B><U+271C><U+2704><U+271E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2701><U+261E><U+2718> <U+2706><U+2713><U+2722><U+270C><U+2704><U+2715>        116
                                                         102
                                           <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B>

                                                <U+2701><U+272D> <U+272E>
<removed-date>
              200
                                                 Start
                      Receive a request to playback a media item having a video
                                    portion and an audio portion
<removed-apn>
                                                                              202
                    Reserve a resource associated with playback of the media item
                                                                               204
                                       Present the media item
                                                                                206
                     Receive a first message to stop the presentation of the video
                                               portion                          208
                     Stop the presentation of the video portion while continuing to
                                      present the audio portion                  210
                     Release the resource associated with playback of the media
                                               item                          212
                    Receive a second message to resume presentation of the video
                                             portion                         214
                                   Reacquire the released resource
                                                                                216
                    Resume the presentation of the video portion in synchronization
                             with the presentation of the audio portion        218
                                                 End
                                            <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>

                                                       <U+2701><U+272D> <U+272E>
<removed-date>
               300
                         Receive                           Receive
                           first                           second
<removed-apn>
                         message                           message
                           308                               314
                                   Releasing      Video              Acquiring
                     Play audio      video     resources               video              Play media
              Run    and video     resources    released             resources               item
                        306           310          312                316                    306
              302
                                                                                 Pausing audio until
                                                                                    video ready
                                                                                        322
              Run       306          310         312                  316                      306
              304
                                                                        Joining
                                                                      window 320
                                                  <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>

                                                <U+272E><U+272D> <U+272E>
<removed-date>                             400
                                                       408
                 Processor                                     Display Device
                Instructions
<removed-apn>
                            426
                                  402                                             410
               Main Memory                                   Alphanumeric Input
                                                                  Device
                Instructions
                            426
                                  404                                             412
               Static Memory                                   Cursor Control
                                                                  Device
                                  406            Bus                              414
              Network Interface                              Data Storage Device
                  Device
                                                             Computer-Readable
                                                                 Medium
                                  422                            Instructions
                                                                             426
                                                                               424
                                                                                 416
                                                              Signal Generation
                  Network                                          Device
                       418
                                                                                  420
                                              <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>

