                                      ABSTRACT
      Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a transmission device, including
a driving means and a transmission means for driving the driving means. The driving
means includes a driving part and is configured, in responding to an action to the
push button of the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part, the rocker of the
push-button switch to pivot rotate. The driving means further includes an indication
part to provide a feature for indicating operation states of the push-button switch. The
driving means is disposed in a manner of being clamped between the push button of
the push-button switch and the transmission means. The transmission means is
configured to pivot in a plane parallel to a pushing direction of the pushing button in
responding to a pushing action or a releasing action of the pushing button, so as to
drive the driving means to slide between a first predetermined position and a second
predetermined position. The first predetermined position corresponds to an on
position of the push-button switch and the second predetermined position corresponds
to an off position of the push-button switch.
                                            16

D
L)
             21
                    2
      11            12
                  3
   31
                4
         Fig. I
           1/6

 TRANSMISSION DEVICE FOR PUSH-BUTTON SWITCH, PUSH-BUTTON
                               SWITCH AND SOCKET
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]   Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a push-button switch, and
more particularly to an improvement of an operation state indication of a push-button
switch.
BACKGROUND
[0002]   The button switch is widely used in homes, factories and other fields. In
some cases, the user wishes to know the operation state of the push-button switch
from the interface of the push button. In order to realize this function, an existing
conventional push-button switch is provided with a component therein for indicating
the operation state, which rotates according to features of the driving means (for
example, a movement direction and/or a movement position), so as to display features
indicating the operation state at the interface of the push-button switch, thereby
enabling the user to know the operation state of the push-button switch through the
displayed features.
SUMMARY
[0003]   The present disclosure provides a transmission device for a push-button
switch. The push-button switch includes a driving means and a transmission means
for driving the driving means. The driving means includes a driving part and is
configured, in responding to an action to the push button of the push-button switch, to
drive, by the driving part, the rocker of the push-button switch to pivot. The driving
means further includes an indication part to provide a feature for indicating operation
states of the push-button switch. The driving means is disposed in a manner of being
clamped between the push button and the transmission means. The transmission
means is configured to pivot in a plane parallel to a pushing direction of the pushing
button in responding to a pushing action or a releasing action of the pushing button,
so as to drive the driving means to slide between a first predetermined position and a
second predetermined position. The first predetermined position corresponds to an on
position of the push-button switch and the second predetermined position corresponds

to an off position of the push-button switch.
[0004]    The driving means in the transmission device according to embodiments of
the present disclosure is used to indicate the operation states of the push-button
switch, and also serves as a driving means for driving the rocker to pivot. That is, one
driving means has two functions. In the case of ensuring that the function of the
push-button switch remains unchanged, the number of components of the push-button
switch is reduced, the manufacturing cost of the push-button switch is decreased, and
also the push-button switch is easy to assemble and convenient to produce.
[0005]    In addition, the operation states indicated by the driving means do not have
an intermediate state, that is, a final stopping position of the driving means sliding on
the push button is either the first predetermined position where the push-button
switch is on or the second predetermined position where the push-button switch is off,
such that the operation state of the push-button switch can be clearly known by the
user.
[0006]    In some embodiments, the transmission device is pivotably mounted
between the driving means and the rocker, and is connected to a sliding part through
an elastic part, and the sliding part is configured to slide along a slant surface of the
rocker.
[0007]    In some embodiments, the driving means is configured in following manners:
in the case that the driving means is in the first predetermined position, when the push
button is pushed, the driving means presses a slave part at an end of the rocker, the
elastic part is compressed, and when the push button is released, the elastic part drives
the transmission means to pivot in a plane parallel to a pushing direction of the push
button under action of the sliding part and the rocker, and drives the driving means to
slide to the second predetermined position; in the case that the driving means is in the
second predetermined position, when the push button is pushed, the driving means
presses a slave part at another end of the rocker, the elastic part is compressed, and
when the push button is released, the elastic part drives the transmission means to
pivot in the plane parallel to the pushing direction of the push button under action of
                                              2

the sliding part and the rocker, and drives the driving means to slide to the first
predetermined position.
[0008]    In some embodiments, the driving means is slidably accommodated in a
cavity defined by side walls of the push button, and the driving means is configured
to slide between the first predetermined position and the second predetermined
position.
[0009]    In some embodiments, the push button is provided with a display window.
[0010]    In some embodiments, the driving means is provided with a feature for
indicating the operation states of the push-button switch on a surface of the driving
means facing the push button, so that the operating states of the push-button switch
are observable to the user through the display window.
[0011]    The present disclosure also provides a push-button switch, including: a push
button provided with a display window; a transmission device according to above
embodiments; and a rocker pivotably mounted to an housing of the push-button
switch and configured to pivot in responding to a downward movement of the push
button, to drive a moving contact of the push-button switch to pivot through a contour
portion of the rocker, so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact of the
push-button switch.
[0012]    In some embodiments, the push button has a sliding rail, and the driving
means is slidably mounted to the sliding rail.
[0013]    In some embodiments, the push-button switch is divided into two portions,
the rocker, the moving contact and the fixed contact form an installation panel
configured to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push button and the transmission device
form a cover separate from the installation panel.
[0014]    The present disclosure also provides a socket, including the above
push-button switch for controlling power-on and power-off of the socket.
                                            3

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0015]    The features and advantages of the present disclosure will be easily
understood from descriptions of example embodiments in the drawings, in which:
[0016]    Fig. 1 shows a cross-sectional view of a push-button switch according to
embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0017]    Fig. 2 shows a structural view of a push-button switch according to
embodiments of the present disclosure from a viewpoint;
[0018]    Fig. 3 shows a perspective view of a transmission means for a push-button
switch according to embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0019]    Fig. 4 shows a perspective view of a driving means according to
embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0020]    Fig. 5 shows an arrangement relationship between a driving means and a
push button and a transmission means of a push-button switch;
[0021]    Fig. 6A shows a perspective view of a push button according                     to
embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0022]    Fig. 6B shows a structural view of a bottom of a push button according to
embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0023]    Fig. 7 shows a perspective view of a transmission means according to
embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0024]    Fig. 8A shows a cross-sectional view of a push-button switch whose initial
state is on;
[0025]    Fig. 8B shows a cross-sectional view of a push-button switch during a
changing process of the push-button switch from an on state to an off state;
[0026]    Fig. 8C shows a cross-sectional view of a push button switch whose final
status is off.
DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
[0027]    The principles of the present disclosure will now be described with reference
to some example Embodiments. It will be understood that these embodiments are
described solely to illustrate the present disclosure and assist those skilled in the art in
understanding and carrying out the disclosure, but are not intended to suggest any
limitation to the scope of the present disclosure. The present disclosure described
                                             4

herein may be implemented in various ways other than the ways described below.
[0028]    As used herein, the term "including/comprising" and its various variants may
be understood as open-ended terms, which means "including/comprising but not
limited to". The term "based on" may be understood as "at least partially based on".
The term "an embodiment" may be understood as "at least one embodiment". The
term "another embodiment" may be understood as "at least one other embodiment".
[0029]    Fig. 1 shows a cross-sectional view of a push-button switch 100 according to
embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 1, the push-button switch
100 includes a push button 2, which is provided with a display window 21; a
transmission device 1; and a rocker 3, which is pivotably mounted to an housing of
the push-button switch 100 and is configured to pivot in responding to a downward
movement of the push button 2, to drive a moving contact 4 of the push-button switch
100 to pivot through the rocker 3, so as to contact or be separated from a fixed contact
5 of the push-button switch 100. The transmission device 1 includes a driving means
11 and a transmission means 12 for driving the driving means 11, and the
transmission device 1 is arranged between the push button 2 and the rocker 3, to
realize the mutual coupling of movements among the push button 2, the rocker 3 and
the transmission device 1.
[0030]    In some embodiments, the push button 2 has a sliding rail, and the driving
means 11 is slidably mounted to the sliding rail. The transmission means 12 is
connected to a sliding part 122 through an elastic part 121, and the sliding part is
configured to slide along a slant surface of the rocker 3 in responding to the pushing
of the push button 2 and the pivoting of the rocker 3.
[0031]    It should be noted that an end of the sliding part 122 is configured to be
accommodated in the transmission means 12 through the elastic part 121 (like a
spring), and another end of the sliding part 122 is configured to smoothly slide at the
slant surface of the rocker 3. As shown in Fig. 1, the sliding part may be a
bullet-shaped part, but the sliding part may have other shapes. For example, the end
of the sliding part abutting against the rocker 3 may be a slidable part, such as a
                                            5

spherical part or the like. The specific shape of the sliding part 122 is not limited in
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0032]   Fig. 2 shows a structural view of the push-button switch 100 according to
embodiments of the present disclosure from a viewpoint. The structural relationship
of the driving means 11, the transmission means 12 and the rocker 3 can be obtained
from Fig. 2. It should be noted that a silver bridge 6 includes the moving contact 4,
and when the rocker 3 pivots, the silver bridge 6 is driven to rotate, so as to allow the
moving contact 4 to contact or to be separated from the fixed contact 5. When the
moving contact 4 contacts the fixed contact 5, the corresponding operation state of the
push-button switch 100 is on, and when the moving contact 4 is separated from the
fixed contact 5, the corresponding operation state of the push-button switch 100 is off.
[0033]   When the push button 2 is pushed down, the driving means 11 presses an end
of the rocker 3, and the rocker 3 pivots in response to the pushing of the driving
means 11, so that the sliding part 122 slides along the slant surface of the rocker 3.
When the push button 2 is released, the sliding part 122 slides along the slant surface
of the rocker 3 to drive the transmission means 12 to pivot in a plane parallel to the
pushing direction. An elastic force of the elastic part 121 and the pivoting of the
transmission means 12 drive the driving means 11 to move in a plane perpendicular to
the pushing direction.
[0034]   In some embodiments, the push-button switch 100 is divided into two parts.
The rocker 3, the moving contact 4 and the fixed contact 5 form an installation panel
configured to be mounted to a fixed wall. The push button 2 and the transmission
device 1 form a cover separated from the installation panel. That is, the push-button
switch 100 is divided into two parts, in which one part may be configured in the form
of the installation panel fixed in a support surface such as a wall, and the installation
panel can be fixed to the support surface (such as the wall) with screws; the other part
may be configured in the form of the cover matched with the installation panel, and
the cover can cover the installation panel and be matched with the installation panel.
[0035]   The present disclosure also provides a socket, which includes the above
                                            6

push-button switch 100 for controlling power-on and power-off of the socket.
[0036]    Fig. 3 shows a perspective view of the transmission device 1 for the
push-button switch 100 according to embodiments of the present disclosure. As
shown in Fig. 3, the transmission means 1 includes the driving means 11 and the
transmission means 12 for driving the driving means 11. The driving means 11 has a
driving part 111, and the driving means 11 is configured to drive the rocker 3 of the
push-button switch 100 to pivot through the driving part 111, in responding to an
action of the push button 2 of the push-button switch 100. The driving means 11 also
includes an indication part 112 configured to provide features indicating operation
states of the push-button switch 100. The driving means 11 is arranged in a manner of
being clamped between the push button 2 and the transmission means 12 of the
push-button switch. The transmission means 12 is configured to pivot in the plane
parallel to the pushing direction to the pushing button 2 in responding to a pushing
action or a releasing action of the pushing button 2, so as to drive the driving means
11 to slide between a first predetermined position and a second predetermined
position, in which the first predetermined position corresponds to an on position of
the push-button switch 100 and the second predetermined position corresponds to an
off position of the push-button switch 100.
[0037]    Fig. 4 shows a perspective view of the driving means 11 according to
embodiments of the present disclosure. The driving means 11 is provided with a
feature on a surface thereof facing the push button 2, and the feature is configured to
indicate the operation states of the push-button switch 100, so that the operation states
of the push-button switch 100 are observable to the user through the display window
201. The features provided on the driving means 11 to indicate the operation states of
the push-button switch 100 may be two different colors respectively located at two
sides of a central line of the top of the driving means 11, so as to indicate the
operation states of the push-button switch 100. For example, the two different colors
can be red and blue, blue indicates off, and red indicates on. Embodiments of the
present disclosure do not specifically limit how the colors indicating the operation
states of the push-button switch 100 are attached to the driving means 11 and what
colors are used herein.
                                            7

[0038]    As can be seen from Fig. 4, the driving means 11 includes the driving part
111 and an engaging part 112, and the driving part 111 is configured to drive the
rocker to pivot. As shown in Fig. 3, the driving means 11 is connected with a
connecting part 123 of the transmission means 12 through the engaging part 112, so
that when the transmission means 12 pivots in the plane parallel to the pushing
direction, the driving means 11 can be driven to move in a direction perpendicular to
the pushing direction.
[0039]    Fig. 5 shows an arrangement relationship between the driving means 11 and
the push button 2 and the transmission means 12 of the push-button switch 100. As
shown in Fig. 5, the driving means 11 is arranged in the manner of being clamped
between the push button 2 and the transmission means 12.
[0040]    The driving means 11 and the push button 2 may be arranged in such a
manner that the driving means 11 is slidably received in a cavity defined by side walls
of the push button 2 and the driving means 11 is configured to slide between the first
predetermined     position   and  the  second   predetermined     position.  The   first
predetermined position corresponds to the on position of the push-button switch 100
and the second predetermined position corresponds to the off position of the
push-button switch 100. Certainly, the driving means 11 can also be arranged in
another manner that allows the driving means 11 to slide between the first
predetermined position and the second predetermined position. For example, the
driving means 11 can be disposed by being engaged in a sliding groove of the push
button 2. Embodiments of the present disclosure do not limit the specific arrangement
of the driving means 11 and the push button 2.
[0041]    Fig. 6A shows a perspective view of the push button 2 according to
embodiments of the present disclosure. Fig. 6B shows a structural view of a bottom
of the push button 2 according to embodiments of the present disclosure. As can be
seen from Fig. 6A, the push button 2 is configured to have a display window 21, so
that the features of the driving means 11 displayed via the display window 21 can be
observed by the user through the display window 21. For example, when blue
                                           8

indicates off and red indicates on, if the user sees blue from the display window 21, it
is indicated that the push-button switch is in the off state, and if the user sees red from
the display window 21, it is indicated that the button is in the on state.
[0042]    As can be seen from Fig. 6B, the push button 2 is provided with two rotation
holes, and the two rotation holes are configured to be connected with a rotating shaft
124 of the transmission means 12, so that the transmission means 12 can pivot around
the rotating shaft 124 in the plane parallel to the pushing direction of the push button
2.
[0043]    Fig. 7 shows a perspective view of the transmission means 12 according to
embodiments of the present disclosure. As can be seen from Fig. 7, the transmission
means 12 is provided with a connecting part 123 and the rotating shaft 124. The
connecting part 123 is configured to be connected to a feature of the driving means 11
driven by the driving means 11, so that the transmission means 12 can drive the
driving means 11 to generate a movement perpendicular to the pushing direction of
the push button 2. The rotating shaft 124 is configured to couple with the two rotation
holes in the push button 2, so that the transmission means 12 can pivot in the plane
parallel to the pushing direction.
[0044]    In some embodiments, the transmission means 12 is pivotably mounted
between the driving means 11 and the rocker 3, and is connected to the sliding part
122 through the elastic part 121. The sliding part 122 is configured to slide along the
slant surface of the rocker 3.
[0045]    In the case that the driving means 11 is in the first predetermined position,
when the push button 2 is pushed, the driving means 11 pushes an end of the rocker 3,
the elastic part 121 is compressed, and when the push button 2 is released, the elastic
part 121 drives the transmission means 12 to pivot in the plane parallel to the pushing
direction of the push button 2 under action of the sliding part 122 and the rocker 3,
and drives the driving means 11 to slide to the second predetermined position. In the
case that the driving means 11 is in the second predetermined position, when the push
button 2 is pushed, the driving means 11 presses another end of the rocker 3, the
                                             9

elastic part 121 is compressed, and when the push button 2 is released, the elastic part
121 drives the transmission means 12 to pivot in the plane parallel to the pushing
direction of the push button 2 under action of the sliding part 122 and the rocker 3,
and drives the driving means 11 to slide to the first predetermined position.
[0046]    In some other embodiments, the driving means 11 serves as a driving means
of the push-button switch 100. In this case, the driving means 11 is configured to
press one end of the rocker 3 or the other end of the rocker 3, when the push button 2
is pushed.
[0047]    The driving means in the transmission device according to embodiments of
the present disclosure is used to indicate the operation states of the push-button
switch, and also serves as a driving means for driving the rocker to pivot. That is, one
driving means has two functions. In the case of ensuring that the function of the
push-button switch remains unchanged, the number of components of the push-button
switch is reduced, the manufacturing cost of the push-button switch is decreased, and
also the push-button switch is easy to assemble and convenient to produce.
[0048]    In addition, the operation states indicated by the driving means do not have
an intermediate state, that is, a final stopping position of the driving means sliding on
the push button is either the first predetermined position where the push-button
switch is on or the second predetermined position where the push-button switch is off,
such that the operation state of the switch can be clearly known by the user.
[0049]    Figs. 8A-8C show a changing process of the push-button switch 100 from
the on state to the off state.
[0050]    Fig. 8A shows a cross-sectional view of the push-button switch 100 whose
initial state is the on state. As can be seen from Fig. 8A, when the state of the
push-button switch 100 is on, the feature indicated by the driving means 11 shows
that the push-button switch is on, i.e., the position of the driving means 11 is the first
predetermined position, and the moving contact 4 of the push-button switch 100
contacts the fixed contact 5.
                                              10

[0051]    Fig. 8B shows a cross-sectional view of the push-button switch 100 during
the changing process of the push-button switch 100 from the on state to the off state.
When the push button 2 of the push-button switch 100 is pushed down, the driving
means 11 moves downwards along with the pushing of the push button 2, and the
feature of the driving means 11 configured to drive the rocker 3 rotate presses an end
of the rocker 3 to push the rocker 3 to pivot around a rotation shaft of the rocker, so as
to urge the silver bridge 6 to rotate, and thus the moving contact 4 is separated from
the fixed contact 5. Under action of the elastic part connected to the silver bridge 6,
the silver bridge 6 will continue rotating to reach an equilibrium position, in which
case, the sliding part 122 is compressed into the transmission means 12.
[0052]    Fig. 8C shows a cross-sectional view of the push button switch 100 whose
final state is off. When the push button 2 of the push-button switch 100 is released,
the elastic part 121 connected to the sliding part 122 pushes the push button 2 to reset,
and also pushes the sliding part 122 to slide along the slant surface of the rocker. The
transmission means 12 drives the driving means 11 to slide to the second
predetermined position so as to display the feature corresponding to the off state at
the display window 21 of the push button 2. As can be seen from Fig. 8C, the moving
contact 4 is separated from the fixed contact 5, when the state of the push-button
switch 100 is off.
[0053]    In general, although details of a number of implementations are included in
the discussion above, these should not be interpreted as any limitations to the scope of
the present     disclosure, but rather descriptions of features only for specific
embodiments. Certain features that are described in some separate embodiments can
also be performed in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various
features that are described in a single embodiment can also be implemented in
multiple embodiments separately or through any suitable sub-combinations.
[0054]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms
part of the common general knowledge.
                                            11

[0055]   Although the present disclosure has been described in terms of specific
structural features, it can be understood that the scope of the technical solution
defined by attached claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features described
above. In other words, what have been described above are merely optional
embodiments of the present disclosure. For those skilled in the art, embodiments of
the present    disclosure  may    have   various  modifications    and changes.     Any
modifications, equivalent substitutions and improvements made within the spirit and
principle of the present disclosure are included in the protection scope of the present
disclosure.
                                            12

      CLAIMS
      1. A transmission device for a push-button switch, wherein the push-button
switch     comprises a push button, comprising:
      a driving means comprising a driving part and being configured, in responding
to an action to the push button of the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part,
the rocker of the push-button switch to pivot, wherein, the driving means further
comprising an indication part to provide a feature for indicating operation states of
the push-button switch ; and
      a transmission means for driving the driving means, the driving means being
disposed in a manner of being clamped between the push button and the transmission
means,
      wherein, the transmission means is configured to pivot in a plane parallel to a
pushing direction of the pushing button in responding to a pushing action or a
releasing action of the pushing button, so as to drive the driving means to slide
between a first predetermined position and a second predetermined position, wherein,
the first predetermined position corresponding to an on position of the push-button
switch and the second predetermined position corresponding to an off position of the
push-button switch.
      2. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein the transmission means
is pivotably mounted between the driving means and the rocker, and is connected to a
sliding part through an elastic part, the sliding part is configured to slide along a slant
surface of the rocker.
      3. The transmission device according to claim 2, wherein the driving means is
configured in following manners:
      in the case that the driving means is in the first predetermined position, when the
push button is pushed, the driving means presses a slave part at an end of the rocker,
the elastic part is compressed, and when the push button is released, the elastic part
drives the transmission means to pivot in a plane parallel to a pushing direction of the
push button under action of the sliding part and the rocker, and drives the driving
means to slide to the second predetermined position;
      in the case that the driving means is in the second predetermined position, when
                                             13

the push button is pushed, the driving means presses a slave part at another end of the
rocker, the elastic part is compressed, and when the push button is released, the elastic
part drives the transmission means to pivot in the plane parallel to the pushing
direction of the push button under action of the sliding part and the rocker, and drives
the driving means to slide to the first predetermined position.
      4. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein the driving means is
slidably accommodated in a cavity defined by side walls of the push button, and the
driving means is configured to slide between the first predetermined position and the
second predetermined position.
      5. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein the push button is
provided with a display window.
      6. The transmission device according to claim 5, wherein the driving means is
provided with a feature for indicating the operation states of the push-button switch
on a surface of the driving means facing the push button, so that the operating states
of the push-button switch are observable to the user through the display window.
      7. A push-button switch, comprising:
      a push button provided with a display window;
      a transmission device according to any of claims 1-6; and
      a rocker pivotably mounted to an housing of the push-button switch and
configured to pivot in responding to a downward movement of the push button, to
drive a moving contact of the push-button switch to pivot through a contour portion
of the rocker, so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact of the
push-button switch.
      8. The push-button switch according to claim 7, wherein the push button has a
sliding rail, and the driving means is slidably mounted to the sliding rail.
      9. The push-button switch according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the push-button
switch is divided into two portions, the rocker, the moving contact and the fixed
                                             14

contact form an installation panel configured to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push
button and the transmission device form a cover separate from the installation panel.
     10. A socket, comprising a push-button switch according to any of claims 7-9 for
controlling power-on and power-off of the socket.
                                          15

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/6   Fig. 1

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/6   Fig. 3   Fig. 2

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/6   Fig. 5   Fig. 4

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 6A
                        Rotation hole
              Fig. 6B
                4/6

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/6             Fig. 7
      Fig. 8A

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/6
      Fig. 8C   Fig. 8B

