ABSTRACT
An antenna for a communication device, and also an RFID reader incorporating the said
antenna, are disclosed. The antenna has a structure comprising a ground portion and a
 radiating component. The radiating component has a first side, and a second side that is
spaced apart from the first side. The first side has a ground edge portion which is in contact with
the ground portion, and the first side extends, from its ground edge portion, away from a surface
on one side of the ground portion. The second side also has a ground edge portion which is in
contact with the ground portion, and the second side also extends, from its ground edge portion,
away from a surface on said one side of the ground portion. The radiating component also has
a joining portion which is spaced apart from the ground portion on said one side of the ground
 portion, and the joining portion extends between the first side and the second side, such that
there is a region of space defined between the first side and the second side and between the
joining portion and the ground portion. At least one of the first side and the second side has a
slot therein.

                         0,
                        .0
                         0
                         U)
     C                   cu
                C%4
                    LO,
                         CD
                         0
                         CD
CYCu
                         U) C
                         0  C
                        _0
                         0
                         UCD
       (0U0
            CCW
                         E
                         CD
                         CU
                         C3
                         0
                         0,

                                         AN ANTENNA
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention involves, among other things, an antenna with particular
design and performance characteristics.
[0002]       In some particular (albeit non-limiting) example applications, the antenna may be
placed on the road or ground surface in, say, a vehicle parking lot or other vehicle parking area
or space, or on the road or ground surface of a gated driveway or road, or indeed on the road or
ground surface in a range of other locations where vehicles may be (or may become) positioned
or stationary, or where vehicles may travel at low speeds, and where there is a need or
advantage in being able to detect and/or identify vehicles.          The antenna may be used in
performing radio-frequency identification (RFID) with RFID capable tags (RFID tags) which are
located on (e.g. on the front and/or the back of) vehicles. In such applications, the antenna may
be a part of (or associated with) a RFID reader which is operable to communicate with the RFID
tags. Preferably, the RFID tags will be located on the vehicles' license plates. (Or more
specifically, for vehicles which have a license plate on the front and the rear, a RFID tag will
preferably be included on or in one or both of a said vehicle's license plates, or for vehicles
which have only one license plate, a RFID tag will preferably be placed on or in the single
license plate).
[0003]       Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is to be clearly understood that no particular
limitations are to be implied from any of the example applications or uses mentioned above or
discussed below. Thus, the antenna could potentially be used in a wide range of other areas
and/or applications as well. By way of example, rather than being used in "on-road" applications
for detecting RFID tags on vehicles (or on the vehicles' license plate(s)), the antenna could
instead potentially find use in, say, logistics applications, for example, in on-road/on-ground
applications for detecting and/or identifying RFID-tag-bearing shipping containers at specific
placement locations on the ground in container storage yards, or the like. The antenna might
even be used in on-ground or on-floor applications in areas where people or personnel walk or
move around, for monitoring movement of people or personnel (who may be e.g. carrying RFID
tag bearing cards or the like at their waist or in a pocket etc) in or through and/or restricting their
access to different areas, etc.
[0004]       Nevertheless, for convenience, the invention will hereafter be described with
reference to, and in the context of, the above referenced kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or
other like vehicle presence or access control) applications where the antenna communicates
with RFID tags which are located on vehicle license plates.

BACKGROUND
[0005]        For the purpose of providing a background and introduction to the present invention,
reference is hereby made to the following earlier patent applications, namely:
     -   International Patent Application No. PCT/AU2015/050161          (hereinafter referred to as
         "patent application '161");
     -   International Patent Application No. PCT/AU2015/050384 (hereinafter referred to as
         "patent application '384"); and
     -   Australian Innovation Patent Application No. <removed-apn> (hereinafter referred to as
         "patent application '994").
[0006]        The entire contents of the earlier patent applications listed above are hereby
incorporated herein by reference.         However, in the event of (or to the extent of) any
inconsistency or discrepancy between the disclosure in the present specification and the
disclosure in any of the earlier patent applications listed above, the present specification takes
precedence and overrides. Also, the mere incorporation herein of the contents of the earlier
patent applications listed above does not mean that any express or implied restrictions or
limitations on any inventions disclosed in any of those earlier patent applications, or that any
express or implied restrictions or limitations on any other disclosure(s) given therein, necessarily
also apply to the present invention or the disclosures herein.
[0007]        In the context of road vehicle detection and identification through RFID, patent
applications '161 and '384 in particular explain, inter alia, that there are a number of significant
benefits and advantages that can arise from placing an RFID tag fairly low-down on a vehicle
(i.e. quite close to ground/road height), preferably by placing a tag on one or both of the
vehicle's license plates (or by embedding a tag in one or both of the vehicle's licence plates
thereby making the license plates "smart" plates), and also from enabling the said RFID tag(s)
to be read by an RFID reader, the antenna of which (at least) is placed on or in the road. Many
reasons for this are explained in detail in patent applications '161 and '384.
[0008]        It is to be noted that the proposal in the previous paragraph, namely placing RFID
tags low on vehicles (preferably by having the tags on or embedded in license plates) and
enabling the tags to be read by an RFID reader which has (at least) its antenna placed on or in
the road, represents a major departure from the design and thinking behind conventional RFID
systems used         for vehicle detection,  identification and/or monitoring.     Indeed,   in most
conventional RFID-based vehicle detection, identification and/or monitoring systems, an RFID
tag is installed on the inside of a vehicle's windscreens (i.e. quite high up on the vehicle), and
the RFID tags on the vehicles are read by RFID readers mounted (very often) "overhead",
generally on over-road gantries or the like. These conventional systems incorporating

windscreen-mounted RFID tags and over-road or gantry based RFID reader placements suffer
from numerous disadvantages, as discussed more in patent applications '161 and '384.
 However, of the many disadvantages, one of the most significant is quite simply the cost
associated with over-road gantries, both in terms of the cost of producing the gantries
themselves (they are large metal structures), and also in terms of costs associated with erection
of the gantries over the roads, and the installation of the RFID reader equipment thereon, etc,
as well as any subsequent maintenance or repair of the gantry and/or reader equipment, all of
which generally require partial or complete closure of the road (which is in turn extremely
disruptive and expensive in itself, quite apart from the actual costs associated with the
 maintenance or repair).
 [0009]       Patent applications '384 and '994 describe the design and configuration of certain
antennas, and RFID readers incorporating said antennas, that may be capable of on-road or in
 road installation or deployment and which may also be suitable (when installed/deployed on or
 in the road) for reading RFID tags on passing vehicles' license plates, including on freeways or
other roads with high (or potentially high) vehicle speeds.         The antennas and RFID readers
described in patent applications '384 and '994, and other associated disclosures therein,
therefore provide a possible alternative to conventional RFID systems in freeway and open road
scenarios which rely on over-road gantries and the like.          Use of the antennas described in
 patent applications '384 and '994 may therefore allow a number of the major disadvantages
associated with over-road gantries or the like, including (in particular) the cost thereof, to be
avoided or reduced, whilst still allowing vehicle detection and identification, etc, using RFID.
 [0010]       For the purposes of the present introduction, it is to be noted that, where an antenna
 is installed/deployed on or in the road and is to be used for reading RFID tags on passing
vehicles' license plates, particularly on freeways or other roads with high (or potentially high)
vehicle speeds (and it is believed that the antennas described in patent application '384 and/or
'994 are suitable/capable of use in these kinds of high-speed applications), there is a required
 read zone for the antenna which is actually quite specifically defined in terms of its size and
shape. In other words, there is a region of quite specific size and shape near the RFID reader
antenna inside which the RFID reader is required to be (i.e. it must be) able to communicate
with a vehicle's plate-mounted RFID tag if (or whenever) a vehicle's tag is within the said region.
The reason this required read zone (region) is quite specifically defined in terms of its size and
shape is due to a number of factors, including: the geometry associated with the placement
 location and orientation of licence plates on vehicles, the dimensions (especially the width) of
 road lanes, the typical maximum speed of travel of vehicles (especially on freeways and other
 high (or potentially high) speed roads), and the time required for an RFID reader to reliably
"read" (i.e. detect and positively identify) a vehicle's (plate-mounted) RFID tag.         This is all
explained in much greater detail in patent applications '384 and '994.

[0011]       Also, for the purposes of the present introduction, it should be noted that, for "open
road" and freeway applications especially (where vehicle speeds may be high), there is also
generally a need to be able to detect and identify a vehicle which could potentially be at any
location within a road lane, including perhaps even at a position across or straddling multiple
lanes if the road has more than one lane. What this means is that, in these kinds of "open road"
and freeway applications, there is (or there may often be) a need to be able to detect and
positively identify passing vehicles notwithstanding the fact there is often considerable
uncertainty as to the actual location of a vehicle (i.e. where the vehicle will actually be relative to
the antenna) as the vehicle passes the antenna. There may also be a need to be able to detect
vehicles moving in different directions relative to the antenna, for example, if the antenna is
placed at a crossroads or at an intersection where different vehicles may pass over or pass by
the antenna while travelling in different directions. As a result of these things, RFID reader
antennas which are capable of on- and/or in-road placement and which are suitable for reading
RFID tags on passing vehicles' license plates on freeways or in other open road applications
should generally have (or at least it is desirable for them to have) a radiation pattern that
"points" in most, if not all, radial directions around the antenna. In other words, the antenna's
radiated energy must (at least preferably) propagate in all radial directions, preferably
approximately or substantially equally in all radial directions. Thus, for freeway and other open
road applications especially, the antenna should preferably be (at least substantially) non
directional (or omni-directional). In addition, the amount of energy radiated in an "upward"
direction (i.e. the amount of energy directed vertically upwards perpendicular to the surface of
the road) should be limited. There are a number of reasons for this, including limiting potentially
"blinding" energy reflections from the undersides of vehicles that pass over the top of the
antenna.
[0012]       Designing an antenna which is able to provide a radiation pattern that meets or
balances the above-summarised requirements has proven to be extremely challenging,
although the antenna designs described in patent applications '384 and '994 are presently
considered to be promising, and one or more of them are thought to be commercially viable,
including for "open road" and freeway applications.
[0013]       As mentioned above, in open road and freeway scenarios (and hence at locations
where vehicles are to be detected and positively identified in these scenarios), vehicles are
generally (or they can be) moving at high speed. As an indication (albeit without limitation), for
design purposes, an assumption is often made that on freeways and open roads, vehicles may
be travelling up to (or around) 180 km/h, or at least at speeds of this order. In any case, as a
result of the potentially high vehicle speeds on freeways and other open roads, it is often the
case that a vehicle that is passing an RFID antenna on a freeway or open road, and whose
plate-mounted RFID tag must be read by the RFID reader associated with the antenna, will only

be in the antenna's "read zone" for a very short period of time (due to the speed at which the
vehicle moves past the stationary antenna). As a result of this, in these kinds of high vehicle
speed scenarios, there is sometimes a need (or perhaps a desire) to supply a high amount of
power to the on- or in-road antenna (to the extent possible or permitted by regulation). This is to
try and increase or maximise the size of the antenna's "read zone", because if the size of the
"read zone" near the RFID antenna is increased, then the amount of time that the vehicle is
within that "read zone" as it passes the antenna will also likely increase, thus giving more time
for the RFID reader to detect and positively identify the vehicle through communication with the
RFID tag on (at least one of) the vehicle's license plates. However, simply increasing the power
supplied to the RFID reader antenna in order to increase the size of the antenna's "read zone"
(for the purpose of providing a greater amount of time to perform RFID communication with
vehicles' plate mounted RFID tags) is not always viable, or even permitted. For one thing, there
may be limits on the amount of power that can be supplied to the antenna, e.g. due to limits on
the power that can be easily transmitted to the antenna's on- or in-road location, or perhaps due
to limits on the amount of power a battery can supply if it is to have a life or re-charge interval
that is not too short, etc. Also, in many jurisdictions there are laws or regulations which place
restrictions on the amount of power that a radio antenna (including an RFID antenna intended
for vehicle detection/identification use) may emit. These things, for example, therefore often
place restrictions on the amount of power that may be supplied to the on- or in-road antenna.
However, even aside from the above, there are also practical reasons why increasing the power
supplied to an RFID antenna, particularly one that is located on or in the road and used for
vehicle detection and identification, is undesirable. For example, it was mentioned above that
the amount of energy radiated in an "upward" direction from an on- or in-road antenna (i.e. the
amount of energy directed vertically upwards perpendicular to the surface of the road) should
be limited, largely so as to limit "blinding" reflections from the underside of the vehicles. Simply
increasing the amount of power supplied to an on- or in-road RFID antenna used for vehicle
detection/identification would not only increase the size of antenna's "read zone" in a radial
direction (parallel to the ground), but it would also increase the strength (or power or power
density) of the radiation pattern (i.e. increase the amount of radiated power) that is directed in
the vertically upward direction (perpendicular to the ground), which would be counter-productive
because it would increase the potential for undesirable "blinding" reflections from the undersides
of vehicles (among other things). Furthermore, increasing the amount of power that is supplied
to an RFID antenna would also likely increase the amount of heat that is generated, not only by
the antenna itself, but also (and often much more so) by the associated RFID reader equipment
which supplies the power to the antenna (among other things). The amount of heat generated
by the antenna and associated RFID reader equipment is extremely important, especially in
scenarios where an RFID reader is installed "in-road" because, due to the location and
environment in these installations scenarios, there is often very limited possibility for ventilation

or other means of heat dissipation. Consequently, minimising the amount of heat that is
generated by the antenna and any associated RFID reader (or other) electronics in the first
place becomes very important, because the difficulty in ventilating or dissipating heat means
that if too much heat is generated in the first place then there may be a danger of overheating
the antenna and/or electronics (which may in turn lead to damage or overheating prevention
shutdown, if not actual overheating or damage).
[0014]        Another strategy or design technique used to help in accommodating (or allowing
detection and identification of) vehicles travelling at high speeds on freeways or in other open
road scenarios - and this is applicable e.g. to the proposals in patent applications '384 and '994
- is for the antenna and associated RFID reader equipment to operate with quite a high (or even
very high) duty cycle. What operating with a high duty cycle means, in simple terms, is that the
RFID reader electronics associated with the antenna cause the antenna to be "powered on",
hence causing the antenna to be radiating radio frequency energy, for a high proportion of the
time, or more accurately, for or a high proportion of each signal period. The reason why a high
(or very high) duty cycle is often used is, again, to maximise the chance of detecting and
reading a vehicle's RFID tag during the potentially short time period while the tag remains in the
antenna's read zone. As explained above, this time period is potentially short due to the high
speed at which vehicles may be moving in highway scenarios and the consequently limited
period of time available to read the tag. However, one of the consequences of using a high duty
cycle is that the amount of energy consumed is increased. Basically, the higher the duty cycle,
the higher is the energy use and consumption by the RFID reader antenna and it's electronics.
Also, it generally follows that the higher the energy use and consumption (in this case due to the
use of a high duty cycle) the higher the potential for heat generation.
[0015]        Designing an RFID reader whose antenna is able to provide a radiation pattern that
meets or balances the requirements discussed above, and also where the RFID reader is able
to operate with a high duty cycle whilst at the same time ensuring energy use and consumption
and heat generation do not exceed acceptable levels, has proven to be extremely challenging.
Even so, again, the antenna and RFID reader design(s) described in patent application '994 in
particular is presently considered to be promising, and (it is thought) commercially viable,
including for "open road" and freeway applications.
[0016]        However, yet another issue to consider for RFID readers like e.g. the one described
in patent application '994, including its antenna and the associated RFID reader equipment
(bearing in mind that that RFID reader is considered to be capable of freeway or other open
road application), is that, at least for permanent installation scenarios (i.e. where the reader is
permanently installed to operate at a single location - as opposed to in a temporary relocatable
manner), in order for the RFID antenna to be positioned at the correct position to "read" the tags

on passing vehicles (which essentially requires, inter alia, the antenna to be positioned with its
base plane parallel and level with the surface of the road), much of the associated RFID reader
electronics, casing and also structural components, heatsinks, etc, must be installed "in" the
road (i.e. below the road surface). Basically, so that the reader electronics, structural
components, etc, in question can remain with or very near by the antenna (as opposed to being
located some remote distance away), it is thought that, in permanent installation scenarios,
these things really need to be "buried" beneath (or buried very nearby) the antenna in the road,
beneath road surface level. One natural consequence of this is that, as part of the installation of
such RFID readers, there is a requirement to cut or dig into the road in order to install the RFID
reader. This can increase costs associated with the installation.         It may often also require
temporary closure of the road, or at least of the lane where the RFID reader is being installed.
As mentioned above, this can be disruptive and costly. Nevertheless, it is considered that the
costs associated with the permanent installation of these kinds of RFID readers remain
significantly less than cost associated with construction of over-road gantries and the like, and
the costs are therefore thought to remain acceptable, particularly given that such RFID readers
are likely to be required only at particular locations when used in freeway and other open road
applications. Indeed, the number or density of these kinds of RFID readers required (i.e.
required to be permanently installed) in a road system/network deployment is likely to be
comparatively low, and the cost of installation is therefore considered likely to be acceptable,
particularly in comparison with the far greater cost of over road gantries installations and the
like.
[0017]       RFID readers which are capable of permanent "on-road" installation, and which
therefore avoid (at least to some extent) the increased time and cost associated with cutting or
digging into the road in order to perform permanent RFID reader installation, have previously
been proposed. However, many of these previously proposed designs suffer from other
problems or disadvantages, one of which is crosstalk and other RF noise, especially reflected
signals from adjacent RFID readers.
[0018]       Against the foregoing background, it is thought that it would be desirable if an
antenna, and preferably also an associated RFID reader structure, could be provided which is
capable of permanent or semipermanent on-road installation (not in-road installation - see
below) and also suitable (when installed on the road) for reading RFID tags on vehicles' license
plates, specifically in applications where vehicles are stationary or travelling at low speeds, such
as for example in the above-mentioned kinds of vehicle parking and gating applications.
[0019]       Even though considerable introductory discussion and background information is
provided above, it is to be clearly understood that mere reference in this specification to any
previous or existing antenna designs, devices, apparatus, products, systems, methods,

practices, publications or indeed to any other information, or to any problems or issues, does
not constitute an acknowledgement or admission that any of those things, whether individually
or in any combination, formed part of the common general knowledge of those skilled in the
field, or that they are admissible prior art.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0020]        In one form, the invention relates generally to an antenna for a communication
device, the antenna having a structure comprising:
             -    a ground portion (which may be substantially planar, in which case the ground
                  portion will be in the form of a ground plane - however the ground portion need
                  not necessarily be planar, or totally planar all over - instead it (or parts of it)
                  could potentially be curved or stepped or otherwise provided in or with other
                  shapes or shaped features), and
             -    a radiating component,
                      o   the radiating component having a first side, and a second side that is
                          spaced apart from the first side, and
                                           the first side has a ground edge portion which is in contact
                                  with the ground portion, and the first side extends, from its ground
                                  edge portion, away from a surface on one side of the ground
                                  portion;
                                           the second side also has a ground edge portion which is in
                                  contact with the ground portion, and the second side also extends,
                                  from its ground edge portion, away from a surface (this may be
                                  the same or a different surface as the first side) on said one side
                                  of the ground portion; and
                      o   the radiating component also has a joining portion which is spaced apart
                          from the ground portion on said one side of the ground portion, and the
                          joining portion extends between the first side and the second side, such
                          that there is a region of space defined between the first side and the
                          second side and between the joining portion and the ground portion; and
                      o   at least one of the first side and the second side has a slot therein.
[0021]        In the antenna described above, the region of space defined between (i.e. which is
bounded in one direction by) the first side and the second side of the radiating component, and
between (i.e. bounded in the other direction by) the joining portion of the radiating component
and the ground portion, may be open at one or both ends. That is to say, the said space may be
unbounded or open ended at one or other or both of the ends, or at least there may be no
conductive or radiative antenna elements located in or across or covering the said end(s) of the

said region of space. There may, however, be other parts or portions of e.g. an associated RFID
reader structure, such as protective and/or structural and/or dielectric structures or the like, or
electronic components associated with the RFID reader, which may be physically located in or
across or near the said open end(s) of the said region of space. In some embodiments, the
region of space defined between the first side and the second side of the radiating component
and between the joining portion of the radiating component and the ground plane portion may
be shaped substantially as a rectangular prism or box shape - see below.
[0022]        It is thought that the configuration of the radiating component in the above antenna,
and in particular the configuration of the first side, second side and joining portion (where one or
both of the first and second sides is slotted), and the way a region of space is created between
the first side and the second side and between the joining portion and the ground portion (which
space may be open at either end, as just mentioned), allows the radiating component in
particular to operate as a resonator. It is therefore thought that altering e.g. the size and relative
proportions of the radiating component and its parts may be used to alter the way the radiating
component operates as a resonator, and hence alter the affect of this on the overall radiation
pattern produced by the antenna. Thus, altering the size and relative proportions, etc, of the
radiating component and its parts may be one way (or at least part of what is involved) in the
"tuning" the antenna to produce a desired radiation pattern.
[0023]        It is anticipated that, in many embodiments of the antenna, the ground portion may
be (as mentioned above) substantially planar and therefore take the form of a substantially
planar ground plane. It is also anticipated that, in these embodiments, it may also be the case
that the first side and the second side of the radiating component are themselves both
substantially planar and rectangular, and both may be oriented with their planes substantially
perpendicular to the plane of the ground plane. Having said this, embodiments are possible
where one or both of the first side and the second side of the radiating component are non
planar, not planar all over, and/or where one or both of the first side and the second side are (or
at least where their lower ground edge portions are) oriented relative to the antenna's ground
portion at some non-perpendicular angle.
[0024]        Referring to the above-mentioned embodiments in which the first side and the
second side of the radiating component are both substantially planar and rectangular, and both
are oriented with their planes substantially perpendicular to the plane of the ground plane, in
some particular ones of these embodiments, for both the first side and the second side of the
radiating component: the ground edge portion which is in contact with the ground plane may
form one of the longer edges of the rectangular side; and there may be a distal side edge
portion, opposite the ground edge portion, which forms the other of the longer edges of the
rectangular side. And in such embodiments, the joining portion of the radiating component may

be substantially unbroken (or at least unbroken by any gaps or major openings), planar and
rectangular and it may extend between the distal side edge portions of the first side and the
second side along the full length of the radiating component. There may, however, be other
embodiments where, even if the joining portion is substantially unbroken, planar and rectangular
(although it need not necessarily be all or any of these things), nevertheless the joining portion
may extend between points on the first side and the second side other than the said respective
distal side edges.
[0025]       In many embodiments of the antenna, including those discussed further below, the
first side and the second side of the radiating component may both have a slot therein. One or
both slots may be an open slot. In any case, the (or each) slot in a side of the radiating
component may extend approximately parallel to the side's ground edge portion, and the (or
each) slot in a side of the radiating component may extend for almost the full length of the side's
ground     edge   portion.   It may    be  that   the   radiation pattern  and/or    the   radiative
properties/characteristics of the antenna can be controllably adjusted/altered (i.e. it may be that
the antenna can be "tuned") at least partly by varying the distance that an open slot in a side of
the radiating component is located above that side's ground edge portion and/or by varying the
width of the open slot (i.e. by varying the size of the opening/gap that the slot forms in the side
of the radiating component in the vertical direction). This may be in addition to the way altering
the radiating component's shape, etc, can be used for tuning, as was mentioned above.
[0026]       The antenna's feed point (which may be or include a cylindrical conductor) may
extend between and connect the ground portion (which may be a ground plane as discussed
above) and the underside of the radiating component's joining portion.         In more detail, the
antenna may be fed from the ground plane with a feed pin (cylindrical conductor) that is oriented
perpendicularly to the ground plane and extends between and connects the ground plane to the
underside of the joining portion half way along the length of the joining portion and half way
between the first side and the second side of the radiating component. Where this is the case,
the antenna may be said to be "centre fed".
[0027]       It may be that the antenna emits vertically polarized energy, and this, it is thought,
may be attributable to one or a combination of the following: the way in which the antenna is fed
(see above); the configuration of the horizontal slots (see above). Where the antenna emits
energy in the form of electromagnetic waves that are vertically polarised, this is thought to be
advantageous because electromagnetic waves which are vertically polarised may propagate
better when radiated from a ground plane (as in a monopole) than electromagnetic waves that
are horizontally polarised.
[0028]       In some embodiments (as mentioned above) the antenna's ground portion may be
substantially planar, such that it is a ground plane, and the ground plane may also be

rectangular with a length dimension and a width dimension, the length dimension being greater
than the width dimension, and the radiating component may have a length (i.e. the longest
dimension of the radiating component) which extends substantially across the width of the
ground plane. In some embodiments, the length of the ground plane may be about A0 , where Ao
is the free space wavelength of the centre frequency of the antenna's operating signal, albeit
optionally the length of the ground plane may be reduced to less than Ao through, or as part of,
antenna tuning (this is in addition to the other options for antenna tuning mentioned above). The
width of the ground plane may be about 0.55Ao or greater, and where this is the case, the length
of the slot in the first side and/or the second side may be about 0.5Ao. The joining portion of the
radiating component may be spaced apart from the ground plane by about 0.06Ao.              In some
embodiments, the first side and the second side of the radiating component may be spaced
apart by about 0.2Ao, such that both the first side and the second side are each spaced apart
from the feed pin by about O.1Ao. However, all of this too may be subject to some variation
because, as mentioned above, altering the size and relative proportions, etc, of the radiating
component and its parts may be one way (or at least part of what is involved) in the "tuning" the
antenna.
[0029]        The antenna's ground portion and/or radiating component may be made from an
electrically conductive material, although the ground portion and the radiating component,
respectively, need not necessarily be made from the same material - indeed the two may be
made from different materials with different electrical conductivity and/or other differing material
properties. The material(s) used for the ground portion and radiating component may also differ
in thickness and other physical parameters.         In some embodiments, the antenna's ground
portion and radiating component may both be made from a metal (such as e.g. aluminium or
copper) or metal-based material (although, again, both need not necessarily be made from the
same metal or metal-based material).
[0030]        In some other embodiments, the radiating component might be made from (or made
up of) wires that are each very (or extremely) thin but formed from (very) highly electrically
conductive material (e.g. such as silver, aluminium, gold, copper, alloys thereof, graphite, etc).
Where this is the case, the individual wires may be arranged (i.e. positioned and oriented
relative to one another) such that, together, they define an overall shape of the radiating
component that is as described above and/or as shown in Figure 3, Figure 4, Figure 5, Figure 7,
etc, below. Typically, a number of the very thin wires, which are positioned close together, may
be required (e.g. they may be arranged parallel to one another, or crossing over one another, or
in a grid pattern, or the wires may trace out (a) curved or wavy surface-area-covering path(s)) to
thereby create a radiating component for the antenna that is of equivalent shape and
functionally equivalent to the radiating component described above (i.e. functionally equivalent
to a radiating component          of the same shape but which          is made from conductive

solid/sheet/plate/film material, as described above). However, the important thing is that it IS
thought to be possible to use thin, highly conductive wires to create a radiating component for
the antenna which is functionally equivalent to a similarly shaped radiating component made
from unbroken solid/sheet/plate material.      And furthermore, where the radiating component is
formed from thin, conductive wires, even though these may need to be positioned close
together, there will nevertheless still be gaps (i.e. open spaces) between individual wires. Recall
also that the wires themselves should all individually be VERY thin, which means the gaps in
between may be larger (possibly much larger) than the thickness of the wires themselves. This
(i.e. the fact that the open spaces between the wires may be larger than the wires themselves)
may mean that not only is it possible to create a radiating component that is functionally
equivalent to a "solid" radiating component as described above (i.e. equivalent to those made
from solid/sheet//film which therefore have no open spaces therein, other than the "slots" that
form part of the overall shape) but also a radiating component thus made from such thin
conductive wires may itself be optically transparent. In other words, it may be possible to see
through the radiating component, and in fact, the wires may be so thin that they are actually
invisible to the human eye from any non-macro distance - meaning the whole radiating
component of the antenna may actually be invisible to the naked human eye. And this, when
combined with the fact that other parts of the RFID reader structure may also be optically
transparent, may have significant ramifications (i.e. it may open possibilities), including in
relation to allowing the RFID reader to be solar powered, and where the solar panels may be
located.
[0031]        The antenna may be configured to be used with an operating signal having a range
of frequencies. It is thought that most embodiments will operate in the UHF (ultra high
frequency) band (UHF is the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) designation for radio
frequencies in the range between 300 MHz and 3 GHz), although it is thought that it will be
more usual (or more likely) that embodiments will operate with an operating signal frequency of
about 860-940 MHz. Those skilled in the art will understand, however, that the actual operating
frequency may vary, or it may need to be different, say, in different jurisdictions due to the
different UHF frequency allocations applicable in different jurisdictions (and hence different rules
governing which frequencies are permitted for what uses).
[0032]        The radiation pattern of the antenna may be directional, including (without limitation)
substantially bi-directional in the azimuth plane. In saying here that the radiation pattern may be
bi-directional in the azimuth plane, what is meant is that, basically, if the antenna were to be
positioned horizontally on the ground or road surface (or on the X-Y plane as in the in the
Figures discussed below), the antenna's radiation pattern would have predominant/main
portions (i.e. regions of greatest radiation energy concentration) pointing in two main horizontal
directions (or two directions in the X-Y plane). It happens that, in the examples in the Figures

below, those two directions are essentially horizontally opposite one another - i.e. in the +Y and
-Y directions.
[0033]       In preferred embodiments, the antenna's radiation pattern shape may have, for each
of these two directions, one or more round or bulbous "lobe" shaped portions (and the word
"lobe" here is used in the sense of connoting a shape similar or analogous to the opposing
lobes of a human brain). These lobe shaped portions of the radiation pattern may be the regions
of major or greatest radiation energy concentration from the antenna. Each of the "lobe" shaped
portions may generally point away from the radiating component in a lengthwise direction of the
antenna (i.e. relative to the length direction of the ground plane), and at least the majority of
each "lobe" may be located at (or contained within) an angle of between 00 and 900 elevation
above the ground plane (i.e. between 00 and 90' above the X-Y plane, or between          e =0   and
e = 900  and qp = 00 and p = 900, in the Figures). What all this essentially means is that the
majority of the energy radiated by the antenna may be located in these "lobe" shaped portions
of the antenna's radiation pattern, the lobes may be directed away from the radiating component
in both the antenna's forward and aft/rearward directions, and the lobes may be (at least mostly)
above the plane of the antenna's ground plane. This last point, namely that the lobes may be
(or are, at least mostly) above the plane of the antenna's ground plane, is important because
what it means is that, if the antenna is used as part of an RFID reader located on the surface of
a road, the antenna is directing ("pointing") the greatest amount of its energy into the areas (or
focusing most energy into the regions) relative to the antenna where vehicle license plates
(bearing RFID tags thereon) are likely to become positioned - so in other words the antenna is
focusing energy where it needs to to best achieve "read" of tags on vehicle license plates. In
some preferred embodiments, within a plane that is perpendicular to the antenna's ground plane
and aligned with the lengthwise centreline axis of the ground plane (i.e. in the Y-Z plane in the
Figures), the 3dB beam width of the antenna's radiation pattern may be contained within the
angle range of between about 300 and about 650 elevation above the ground plane (i.e.
E = about 300 to about 650 and <p = about 300 to about 650).
[0034]      Another point to be made is that, whilst the antenna's radiation pattern may be
described as comprising two "lobe" shapes, and examples of radiation patterns thus shaped are
given in the Figures, the respective lobes themselves (and the radiation pattern more generally)
does not actually have a definite edge or boundary. Therefore, it is not correct to say that
something is either inside, or outside, the antenna's radiation pattern. The antenna's radiation
pattern (at least in a theoretical sense) actually extends in all directions and into all regions of
space around the antenna (theoretically to infinity - i.e. the radiation pattern theoretically does
not ever stop or end). However, the strength (or the energy density) of the antenna's emitted
radiation drops or becomes lower (quite quickly) as distance from the antenna increases, and
also energy is not radiated out by the antenna with the same/equal strength or intensity in all

directions. On the contrary, energy is radiated by the antenna much more strongly in some
directions and much less strongly in other directions.        Thus, the "lobes" of the antenna's
radiation pattern are related to (or they come about partly as a consequence of) the directions
extending outward into the regions of three-dimensional space around the antenna where the
density of the energy radiated by the antenna is greatest (i.e. the lobes correspond essentially
to the regions of greatest energy density - but see below for further discussion on the
edge/boundary of the lobes).
[0035]        Following on from the above, whilst in theory the antenna's radiation pattern may be
considered to extend to infinity, nevertheless due to the nature of digital electronics, there is (or
there may be said to be) an edge or boundary within the antenna's radiation pattern, which may
(in this instance) be thought of as defining the outer edge or boundary of the lobes. This edge
or boundary is not, however, a feature of the radiation pattern itself, for the reasons discussed
above. Rather this edge or boundary becomes defined as consequence of the relationship
between the energy radiated by the antenna (as an RFID reader antenna) and the operation of
an RFID tag that exchanges information with the (RFID reader) antenna. More specifically, the
said edge or boundary within the (RFID reader) antenna's radiation pattern takes its shape (i.e.
the surface shape of the lobes e.g. as depicted in the Figures in this case) and it is defined by
the locus of points in three-dimensional space where the density of the energy radiated the
(RFID reader) antenna becomes great enough to communicate with an RFID tag that is within
the (RFID reader) antenna's radiation pattern. This may be conveniently explained with
reference to so-called passive RFID tags, although it is to be clearly understood that the present
invention is by no means limited to use with only passive RFID tags (i.e. the invention could also
be used with so-called active RFID tags and indeed any other forms of RFID tags). A passive
RFID tag is an RFID tag that does not contain its own battery or other power source. Instead, a
passive RFID tag is itself (i.e. the tag's antenna and also all of the tag's operating electronics
are) powered by the energy radiated by the RFID reader antenna. Now, due to the nature of
digital electronics, there will always be a certain minimum amount of power that is required in
order to operate a given passive RFID tag (e.g. to enable it to power on and transmit a signal
using its own antenna back to the RFID reader antenna, etc). Naturally, however, the amount
of power that is required to operate different passive RFID tags may differ (note that the amount
of power that a passive RFID tag requires to power on and operate is often described as the
tag's sensitive). Accordingly, some passive RFID tags with lower sensitivity may need more
power before they can power up and operate etc, and so these may need to get closer to the
RFID reader antenna (where the density of the energy radiated by the antenna is greater) in
order to operate and communicate with the RFID reader antenna. On the other hand, other
passive RFID tags with higher sensitivity may require less power to turn on and operate, and
therefore they may be able to turn on and operate at a greater distance from the RFID reader
antenna. The point is that, as a result of this, the above-mentioned edge or boundary within the

radiation pattern (i.e. the surface shape of the lobes of the radiation pattern in this case, in
three-dimensional space), which is defined by the locus of points where the density of the
energy radiated by the antenna becomes great enough to enable an RFID tag to communicate
with the RFID reader antenna, is not actually fixed. Rather, its location (i.e. how far out from the
antenna this edge or boundary is) is dependent, assuming the amount of energy radiated by the
antenna remains fixed/set, on the sensitivity of the RFID tag. Therefore, in the context of the
present invention, the "size" of the lobes of the antenna's radiation pattern (i.e. how "big" the
lobes are relative to the size of the antenna), assuming a set power output from the RFID
reader antenna, will be larger for more sensitive tags and smaller for less sensitive tags.
[0036]        However, a further point that must then be made is that, when the present invention
is put into practice, the RFID tags used on vehicle license plates (regardless of whether they are
passive RFID tags or some other form of tag) should have a sensitivity such that the "required
read zone" (inside which the RFID reader must be able to communicate with a vehicle's plate
mounted RFID tag if the vehicle's tag is within the said region), the size and shape which is
described above with reference to Figure 1 and Figure 2, falls within the "lobes" of the antenna's
radiation pattern. In other words, the power output from the RFID reader antenna should be
such that, and in combination the sensitivity of the RFID tags on vehicle license plates should
also be such that, there is no part of the required read zone described above that is outside the
edge or boundary of the lobes of the antenna's radiation pattern.
[0037]        In another form, the invention relates generally to an RFID reader capable of
installation on a road or ground or floor surface, wherein an antenna incorporated in the RFID
reader and which is used by the RFID reader for RFID communication is an antenna as
described above.
[0038]        If or when the RFID reader is installed on the road or ground or floor surface, the
antenna's ground portion may be positioned on the road or ground or floor surface such that the
antenna's radiating component is on the opposite side of the of the ground portion from the road
or ground or floor surface - in other words, such that the underside of the antenna's ground
portion sits face down on the road or floor surface (or possibly face down on one or more thin
intermediate layers, e.g. an adhesive layer for securing the RFID reader to the road and/or
some other thin intermediate shielding or other layer(s)), and the antenna's radiating component
sits on top of (and projects upward from) the upper side of the antenna's ground portion.
[0039]        The RFID reader may also incorporate one or more rigid portions. There may be
one or more rigid portions with (a) sloped upper surface(s), wherein:
         -   the slope of the upper surface of each rigid portion begins at (or about) the level of
             the antenna's ground portion (which means that the rigid portion begins at road or
             ground or floor surface level if the reader positioned such that the antenna is on the

              ground);
         -    each rigid portion slopes generally (or overall) upward (from the level of the
              antenna's ground portion) toward the antenna's radiating component, and
         -    the sloping upper surface of each rigid portion meets the antenna's radiating
              component at about the level (i.e. height) of the joining portion of the antenna's
              radiating component (i.e. so the sloping upper surface of each rigid portion meets the
              antenna's radiating component at (or about) the highest point on the antenna's
              radiating component).
 [0040]        There may be a rigid portion beginning at an end edge of the antenna's ground
 portion (i.e. this rigid portion may begins at the edge that forms the forward or rear end edge of
the antenna's ground portion in the antenna's lengthwise direction), and the said rigid portion
 may slope up from there to meet the antenna's radiating component at the level (i.e. height) of
the radiating component's joining portion, such that portions or areas of the antenna's ground
 portion which are in between the said end edge of the ground portion and the antenna's
 radiating component are beneath the rigid portion. Basically, portions or areas of the antenna's
ground portion which are in between the said end edge of the ground portion and the antenna's
 radiating component may be covered by the rigid portion which is located (i.e. it sits) directly on
top thereof.      Portions or areas of the antenna's ground portion that are covered by the rigid
 portion, and also a side or portion of the antenna's radiating component, may therefore be
 protected (e.g. from physical damage or exposure to the elements, etc), and the radiating
component is structurally supported, by the presence of the rigid portion.
 [0041]        Alternatively, there may be a rigid portion beginning at each of the end edges of the
antenna's ground portion (i.e. these rigid portions may begin at the edges that form the forward
end edge, and rear end edge, respectively, of the antenna's ground portion in the antenna's
 lengthwise direction), and the said rigid portions may slope up from the respective end edges to
 meet the antenna's radiating component at the level (i.e. height) of the radiating component's
joining portion, such that portions or areas of the antenna's ground portion, on either side of the
antenna's radiating component, which are located between the antenna's radiating component
and the respective end edges of the antenna's ground portion are beneath the rigid portion.
 Basically, again, portions or areas of the antenna's ground portion which are in between the
said end edges of the ground portion and the antenna's radiating component may be covered
 by the rigid portions which are located (i.e. they sit) directly on top of these portions of the
ground portion. And again, these portions or areas of the antenna's ground portion that are
covered by the rigid portion, and also side portions of the antenna's radiating component, may
therefore be protected (e.g. from physical damage or exposure to the elements, etc), and the
 radiating component is structurally supported, by the presence of the rigid portions).

                                                     -L /
[0042]       There may also be at least one rigid portion beginning out beyond one side edge of
the antenna's ground portion (i.e. this/these rigid portion(s) may begin(s) further out to one side
than the edge of the ground portion that forms one of the long sides of the antenna's ground
portion in the ground portion's lengthwise direction), and the said rigid portion(s) may slope up
from there to meet the antenna's radiating component at the level (i.e. height) of the radiating
component's joining portion. This/these rigid portion(s) may help to protect the antenna's
radiating component and other parts of the antenna along the side of the antenna from damage
(e.g. physical damage or exposure), and these rigid portions may also help to structurally
support the antenna's radiating component.
[0043]       Alternatively, there may be a at least one rigid portion beginning out beyond the side
edges of the antenna's ground portion on both sides of the ground portion (i.e. these rigid
portions may begin further out to either side than the edges of the ground portion that form the
respective long sides on either side of the antenna's ground portion in the ground portion's
lengthwise direction), and the said rigid portions may slope up from there to meet the antenna's
radiating component at the level (i.e. height) of the radiating component's joining portion. Again,
these rigid portions may help to protect the antenna's radiating component and other parts of
the antenna along the side of the antenna from damage (e.g. physical damage or exposure),
and these rigid portions may also help to structurally support the antenna's radiating
component.)
[0044]       Preferably, there may be a rigid portion sloping up to meet the antenna's radiating
component on all sides of the antenna's radiating component. In other words, the one or more
rigid, upwardly-sloping portions may effectively surround the antenna's radiating component in
the horizontal/X-Y/azimuth plane, and this may therefore help to structurally support the
antenna's radiating component from all sides.
[0045]       The RFID reader's rigid portions may, in fact, be some of the (if not the) primary
components which provide the physical supporting structure for the RFID reader's antenna, and
the RFID reader generally. This can be understood quite simply. As mentioned elsewhere,
components of the antenna, such as the radiating component in particular, may be made from a
conductive material (typically metal). In fact, the radiating component will generally be made
from fairly thin metal, perhaps only a few millimetres or possibly even less than a millimetre in
thickness (or in the case of the conductive wires that may be used for the radiating component,
these may be only a small fraction of a millimetre in thickness). The radiating component is also
elevated relative to (i.e. it is located vertically above) the antenna's ground portion/ground plane
(when the reader is installed on the road). Naturally, thin metal such as this, especially if
elevated/upstanding and unsupported in "free space", can be very flexibly and flimsy. It should
also be recognised that, by virtue of its location in its main expected use (e.g. on a road

                                                     XL"
surface), the RFID reader may often be directly run over by vehicles. Clearly, it is essential for
the RFID reader (including its antenna structure) to be able to withstand such forces and
impacts repeatedly and over a long period of time without damage or affect on the
reader's/antenna's functioning or performance.           It is therefore also clear there needs to be
something to prevent any otherwise thin/flimsy pieces of metal that make up or are comprised in
the RFID reader or its antenna (in particular the radiating component) from simply being
crushed/flattened and completely destroyed by such vehicle impacts. It is this function that the
rigid portions helped provide.      In other words, the rigid portions provide a physical structure
which not only can withstand such vehicle impacts itself, but it also provides a supporting
structure for other parts of the antenna, such as the radiating component, which themselves
could not withstand such impacts but which can withstand such impacts when supported by the
rigid portions.
[0046]        The slope (or the various slopes) of the or each rigid portion may be sufficiently
gentle (i.e. not steep) so as to allow vehicle wheels/tires to roll over the RFID reader (i.e. directly
over the top of the whole RFID reader, or over a portion of the RFID reader), and also such that
there is at least a somewhat reduced risk or likelihood of a person tripping or stumbling or
injuring themselves should they accidentally kick or trip on the RFID reader if the RFID reader is
installed on the road or ground or floor surface. For this purpose, it is thought that the slope of
the upper surface on any rigid portion of the RFID reader should preferably be no steeper than
45*.
[0047]        It is thought to be important that, if or when the RFID reader is installed on a road or
ground or floor surface, the maximum thickness of the RFID reader in a direction perpendicular
to the road or ground or floor surface (i.e. the maximum height of the RFID reader) should be no
more than about 25mm. This maximum thickness (about 25 mm) is considered to be
acceptable, and it is also thought to be also compliant from a standards/regulatory point of view,
as this is the same height as (or perhaps it may even be slightly less than) the height of many
conventional "cat eyes" and other retroreflective devices commonly used on public roads.
[0048]        Each of the above mentioned rigid portions of the RFID reader (or at least some of
them, if not all) may be formed as a substantially solid portion of material (i.e. not hollow, or at
least with little or no space or gaps inside or underneath). It may also be the case that any rigid
portions in the RFID reader are substantially unitary (i.e. formed together on or around the
antenna in a singular/integral manner). Alternatively, it may be that, where the RFID reader has
more than one rigid portion, at least one said rigid portion is initially formed separately from at
least one other said rigid portion and these may be subsequently brought or assembled
together along with any other rigid portion(s), the antenna, and any other parts or components,
when the RFID reader is formed/assembled.

[0049]        The material from which at least one (preferably more than one, and even more
preferably all) of the rigid portions is formed is preferably physically strong/tough and durable
(i.e. so as to be able to withstand repeated impact loading e.g. when vehicles drive over the top,
and so as to thereby provide the structural support for parts of the RFID reader's antenna, etc).
The material from which at least one (preferably more than one, and even more preferably all)
of the rigid portions is formed may also have dielectric properties which do not substantially
interfere with the impedance matching and/or radiation performance/characteristics of the
antenna, or it may be that the dielectric properties of the material can be used (e.g. by altering
the shape of one or more of the rigid portions made from this material) to controllably alter (i.e.
tune) the antenna's radiation pattern and/or its radiation performance/characteristics.            The
material from which at least one (and preferably some or all) of the rigid portions is formed may
also be optically transparent, or at least optically translucent (including so as to allow for light to
be emitted by light emitting components (see below) and also so that any solar panel(s) that
may be incorporated into the RFID reader (and covered or inside the rigid portion material) can
receive light/solar radiation which the solar panels convert into electrical energy). Suitably, the
material from which at least one (and preferably some or all) of the rigid portions is formed may
be a type of polycarbonate, polyethersulfane, or like material. Examples of specific materials
that may be suitable include the materials produced by the Rochling group of companies and
sold under the names/trade marks SUSTARIN C, SUSTANAT PC and SUSTASON PES.
[0050]       As mentioned above, in the antenna (which forms part of the RFID reader), there is
a region of space defined between the first side and the second side of the antenna's radiating
component and between the joining portion of the antenna's radiating component and the
antenna's ground portion, and this region is open at either end. The RFID reader may further
includes one or more light emitting components (e.g. such as LEDs, lights or the like) which
may be located or housed in one or both of the said open ends. Alternatively, or in addition, the
RFID reader may includes one or more light-emitting components (e.g. such as LEDs, lights or
the like) located within (or within the material of) one or more of the rigid portions, even if this
location is outside, rather than within, the space inside the antenna's radiating component.
[0051]       At least some of the RFID reader's electronics and circuitry may be located within
the region of space defined between the first side and the second side of the antenna's radiating
component and between the joining portion of the antenna's radiating component and the
antenna's ground portion. Also, at least the antenna's radiating component (and possibly also
the antenna's ground portion) may be made from a metal or metal-based material (or at least a
material which, in addition to being suitably electrically conductive, is also suitably thermally
conductive) and as a consequence of this at least the antenna's radiating component may be
operable to (i.e. it may, as a secondary function) help dissipate at least some of the heat
generated by any RFID reader electronics and circuitry located within the said region of space

(i.e. any circuitry that is located within the cavity inside the antenna's radiating component).
Note that the option or ability to use the antenna itself (or a portion of it) as the RFID reader's
heatsink is part of what may enable the present RFID reader to be installed simply on the road
surface, because there may consequently be no need for additional heatsinks which might
otherwise have needed to be e.g. located or buried beneath the surface of the road or the like.
The lower power consumption of this RFID reader, achieved through reduced duty cycle, etc,
and consequently the lower amount of heat generated, also contribute to this.
[0052]       The RFID reader may be capable not only of RFID communication using the
abovementioned antenna (the main antenna), but also of separate wireless communication with
one or more other electronic devices (such as nearby computers, mobile devices, etc). This may
be done using commercially available data-over-power methods, or by conventional wireless
methods (e.g. Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, etc)). The RFID reader may incorporate a secondary antenna
(i.e. another antenna which is separate from the main antenna used by the RFID reader for
RFID communication), and the secondary antenna may facilitate said separate wireless
communication with other electronic devices. The secondary antenna may be located at a
location within the RFID structure that does not substantially interfere with the radiation pattern
and performance of the RFID reader's main antenna. Therefore, one possible option for the
location of the secondary antenna (and this is only one possible location option - there may be
others) is to one side of the RFID reader structure (i.e. on one side of the RFID reader's
structure alongside an edge of the reader's main RFID antenna).
[0053]       The RFID reader may be powered in any suitable way.          Options include that the
RFID reader is powered by induction loop or by power-supply wires/cables connected to the
RFID reader (connected once it has been installed). Alternatively, or in addition thereto, the
RFID reader may incorporates one or more solar (photovoltaic) cells. It is possible that, in some
embedment's, the solar cells may be operable to produce and supply to the RFID reader
enough electrical energy to partly or even fully power the RFID reader (or certain parts or
components of the rear, or certain of its functionalities). The solar cells may be located on top
of the joining portion of the radiating component of the RFID reader's (main) antenna.
[0054]       Recall from above that the RFID reader's rigid portions may be optically transparent.
Recall also that (at least in some embodiments) the radiating component of the antenna may be
made from thin, electrically conductive wires, and that this may enable the radiating component
of the antenna to also be optically transparent.       Accordingly, it should be recognised that
(possibly with the exception of some of the RFID reader's internal electronic components, etc), a
significant proportion at least of the structure of the RFID reader (including the radiating
component of the antenna) which is located above the level of the antenna's ground plane may
be optically transparent. The reason this is important is because it may mean that solar panels

used to generate power for the RFID reader may (rather than being mountable only in the
limited space on top of the joining portion of the antenna's radiating component) actually be
mounted at the level of (or directly on) the antenna's ground plane. There is more space/surface
area here, and so this may allow more or larger solar panels to be used (which can provide
more power per unit time).        Furthermore, it is even possible that said solar panels (or the
solar/photovoltaic elements thereof) could be used to form the antenna's ground plane (i.e. the
solar/photovoltaic elements themselves may actually BE the antenna's ground plane). This is
thought to be possible since solar panels (or the solar/photovoltaic elements thereof) are
conductive (and could therefore provide a conducting plane that operates as an antenna ground
plane) at the frequencies at which the present antenna will operate (860-940 MHz UHF)
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0055]       Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled in
the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0056]       Figure 1: Schematic illustration of the required read zone for each of three (identical)
on-road RFID reader antennas to be used for vehicle detection and identification in one
particular (albeit non-limiting) roadside parallel parking application
[0057]       Figure 2: Schematic illustration of the required read zone for each of many
(identical) on-road RFID reader antennas to be used for vehicle detection and identification in a
particular (non-limiting) angled parking or "carpark" application
[0058]       Figure 3: Schematic illustration of the configuration and relative dimensions of the
proposed antenna, with dimensions given as a function of signal wavelength
[0059]       Figure 4: Graphical representation of the complex magnetic fields (H-fields) in the
slots of the proposed antenna
[0060]       Figure 5: 3-D representation of the theoretical (ideal) radiation pattern shape for the
proposed antenna
[0061]       Figure 6: 2-D representation of the theoretical (ideal) radiation pattern shape for the
proposed antenna in the antenna's central Y-Z plane
[0062]       Figure 7: 3-D representation of an experimentally measured radiation pattern shape
for a prototype of the proposed antenna

 [0063]       Figure 8: 2-D representation of the experimentally measured radiation pattern for a
 prototype of the proposed antenna in the antenna's central Y-Z plane
 [0064]       Figure 9: Schematic configuration of the RFID reader's proposed surrounding and
supporting structure for the antenna
 [0065]       Figure 10: Schematic configuration of the RFID reader's proposed surrounding and
supporting structure for the antenna, with dimensions given in millimetres (assuming an antenna
operating frequency of about 900-1000 MHz)
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0066]       As explained (at least in part) in the Background section above, the RFID reader
described in detail in patent application '994 is designed so as to be capable of permanent
 installation such that the reader's antenna becomes located correctly to "read" (i.e. to detect and
 positively identify) RFID tags on passing vehicles' license plates. For that RFID reader, this in
turn requires (among other things) the RFID reader to be installed such that the ground plane of
the reader's antenna is, basically, at road surface level. Importantly, the power and also the
 performance (including high duty cycle, etc) of the particular RFID reader in patent application
'994 are such that the reader is capable of "reading" (i.e. detecting and positively identifying)
vehicles' plate-tags even in freeway or open road scenarios. In other words, it is capable of
doing so even when vehicles are travelling at the kinds of high speeds that may be expected on
such roads. It is also capable of use in situations where vehicles may pass the RFID reader
antenna in different directions, etc.
 [0067]       However, it is also explained (at least in part) in the Background section above that
 because of the ability of the RFID reader in patent application '994 to provide this high level of
 performance, and also due to the fact that permanent installation of that RFID reader must be
"in-road" (i.e. it requires digging or cutting of the road), the overall cost of that RFID reader,
 including its in-road installation, is comparatively high. The cost thereof is still thought to be
considerably less than the cost of conventional RFID systems that rely on RFID readers placed
on over-road gantries and the like, and the cost is therefore thought to still be acceptable (or
 non-prohibitive) for the commercial viability of that RFID reader for use in freeway another open
 road applications.
 [0068]       However, in vehicle parking applications for example, in order to, say, monitor every
single/individual vehicle parking space in a parking lot, there is (or may be) a need for a large
 number of permanently installed RFID readers. This may remain true even if a single RFID
 reader is able to monitor two (or multiple) separate vehicle parking spaces. Thus, for vehicle
 parking applications in particular, the number or density of required (permanently installed)

RFID readers in the area covered by a given RFID system deployment (e.g. the number of
readers required to monitor all parking spaces in a parking lot) may often be high. Naturally, the
greater the number of RFID readers required, the greater cost of the deployment of the RFID
vehicle detection and identification system, at least in terms of initial equipment purchase, and
likely also in terms of system installation. Consequently, even though the performance of the
RFID reader described in patent application '994 is such that that reader (or a modified version
of it) might perhaps also be capable of use in some vehicle parking (and similar) applications,
the performance capabilities of that RFID reader are actually thought to be unnecessarily high
for such applications. The antenna's radiation pattern in the RFID reader described in patent
application '994 may also not actually be ideally suited to parking applications (see below).
Furthermore, given that permanent installations of that RFID reader must necessarily be "in
road", and that this adds to the overall costs due to installation costs associated with this (due to
the need for digging into the road etc), if the RFID reader described in patent application '994
were used in a parking application, the cost of installation (bearing in mind the number of RFID
readers that may be required) may be high, possibly making the cost difficult to justify. Having
said this, conventional RFID systems that rely on over-road gantries and the like are generally
even more expensive, and therefore the cost that might be associated with installation of one of
those in a parking scenario may be even more prohibitive.
[0069]       Nevertheless, continuing to refer to the example of a vehicle parking application, the
fact remains, it is thought, that there are clear business and other reasons why it is desirable to
be able to detect and positively identify a specific vehicle in a specific parking bay. Some of
these reasons are, for example, to assist with automated parking payments, administering
parking concessions (e.g. use of disabled parking bays only by vehicles pre-authorised to do
so), parking restriction enforcement (e.g. identifying if a vehicle is parked in a space outside of
the permitted times, or if a vehicle in a space is one that is not authorised to park there), etc. It
is hoped that the present invention may assist with this kind of thing, and also in the automation
thereof.
[0070]       The desire to provide an RFID reader that is cheaper than the RFID reader
described in patent application '994, both to produce and install, and which is preferably also
more suited to the kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other like vehicle presence or access
control) applications discussed above (as opposed open road and freeway applications), is a
large part of what lead to the development of the present invention.
[0071]       Furthermore, the present invention was also arrived at only after a number of other
important realizations were made. Some of these are summarised below.
[0072]       One important realisation that helped lead to the development of the present
invention is that, in the kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other like vehicle presence or

access control) applications in which the present invention is thought to be of use, vehicles
generally will not pass by the RFID reader's antenna in different directions. Indeed, in the case
of an RFID reader used in a vehicle gating application (e.g. an RFID reader located near a
vehicle boom gate and used to read vehicles' RFID tags and subsequently open the gate to
allow passage for authorised vehicles, or not if the vehicle is unauthorised), the vehicles will
always approach the gate in the same direction. Likewise, in the case of an RFID reader used
to read the RFID tag on any vehicle that pulls into a particular parking space, whilst vehicles
might drive forwards into the said space, or alternatively reverse into the said space,
nevertheless vehicles will always move (and approach the antenna) in the same direction (into
the space) as they enter the said parking space. Thus, these kinds of vehicle parking or gating
(or other like) applications are quite different to some of the open road scenarios discussed
above where vehicles might potentially pass over the RFID reader's antenna in different
directions (e.g. if the antenna is used at a crossroads or the like).
[0073]       Hence, it might be said that, in the kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other like)
applications in which the present invention is likely to be used, the direction of travel of vehicles
whose RFID tags are to be read by the RFID reader can generally be known with much more
confidence than in some of the open road situations above. Furthermore, not only is the
direction of travel of vehicles likely to be known with greater confidence, but also the actual
location of the vehicles relative to the RFID reader antenna is also likely to be known with
greater confidence. For instance, in the case of a vehicle boom gate application, a vehicle boom
gate is generally little wider (if at all) than a single vehicle lane (or perhaps no wider than the
single lane road blocked by the gate). Consequently, in order for a vehicle to pass through the
gate, as it approaches the gate, the vehicle must be located (and it must be moving) within the
boundaries of the vehicle lane (or within the boundaries of the single lane road). The vehicle
cannot be outside the lane/road boundaries otherwise it might risk colliding with an upright pillar
or bollard or wall (or some other like barrier) on one side or other of the boom gate. Likewise, in
the case of a vehicle parking space, a correctly-parked vehicle must (by definition) be located
within the marked/defined boundaries of the parking space. Thus, unlike in freeway and other
open road scenarios (discussed in the Background section above) where there is a possibility
that a vehicle could be located anywhere in a particular road lane, or possibly even across
lanes, in these kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other like) applications, the actual position
of the vehicle can generally be known (it is thought) with much greater confidence.
[0074]       One important consequence of the fact that the direction of travel of vehicles, and
also the actual location of vehicles relative to the RFID reader antenna, may be predicted with
greater confidence in these kinds of applications, is that, as a result of this, it is actually not
necessary/essential (or even necessarily highly preferable) for the antenna used in these
applications to have a non-directional (or omnidirectional) radiation pattern in the azimuth plane

(i.e. parallel to the ground). Instead, the antenna can have a directional (or at least somewhat
directional) radiation pattern in the azimuth plane (parallel to the ground), and the radiation
pattern may e.g. be oriented (or "pointed") in the appropriate direction(s) based on the more
confidently-known direction of movement and/or location of the vehicle(s). The fact that the
RFID antenna used in these applications need not necessarily have a non-directional radiation
pattern in the azimuth plane alleviates a number of significant design challenges associated
with the antenna's design, as compared to antennas intended for freeway or open-road
applications as discussed above (a number of these design challenges are elaborated on in, or
evident from, patent applications '384 and '994).
[0075]        Another important realisation that helped lead to the development of the present
invention is that, in the kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other like) applications in which the
present invention is likely to be used, vehicles may not always pass directly over the top of the
antenna. Or even if they do, they will generally be moving at sufficiently low speeds that
"reading"    (i.e. the detection and positive identification of the vehicle based on RFID
communication with its plate-mounted-tag) will have been completed/achieved before the
vehicle passes over the top. For example, in a case where an RFID reader is located to monitor
(i.e. to detect and identify) any vehicle that enters a particular parking space, that reader may
often be (although it need not necessarily be) located on the boundary of the parking space, or
possibly even outside the boundary of the parking space. Consequently, any vehicle that pulls
into that parking space correctly (i.e. such that the vehicle is located within the space and not
parked across the space boundaries or the like) will not pass over the top of the reader at all.
Or, in an alternative example, where the RFID reader is used in a vehicle boom gate application
(i.e. to detect and positively identify vehicles, and to only open the gate to allow passage for
authorised vehicles) the reader in this case may be located on the road near the boom gate,
and therefore a vehicle may well pass over the reader (albeit perhaps only if it is allowed to
travel through the open gate); however if the gate does open thereby allowing the vehicle to
pass over the top of the reader and through the gate, this means that by that time the "read" of
the vehicle's plate will necessarily have been (successfully) completed. This in turn means that
the potential for "blinding" reflected radiation, or at least the potential for difficulties or failures in
achieving a "read" of a vehicle's plate as a result of this, may be less problematic (as compared
to antennas intended for freeway or open-road applications as discussed above), and there may
therefore be less of a need for the antenna design to achieve a radiation pattern that limits or
minimises upwardly-pointing radiated energy. This too alleviates a number of significant design
challenges associated with the antenna's design, as compared to antennas intended for
freeway or open-road applications discussed above.
[0076]        Yet another important realisation that helped lead to the development of the present
invention is that, because vehicles are moving at such low speeds (if not stationary) in the kinds

of vehicle parking or gating (or other like) applications in which the present invention is likely to
be used, the vehicle will consequently be within the antenna's "read zone" for a much greater
period of time. This in turn opens up a number of possibilities; for example, the possibility of
using a lower (perhaps significantly lower) duty cycle. Another possibility is that of perhaps
needing to supply less (maybe much less) power to the antenna, as it may not be necessary for
the physical size of the antenna's read zone to be so large. In other words, because vehicles
will generally be moving much more slowly in these applications (if they are not stationary) it
follows that, even if the physical size of the antenna's read zone is reduced somewhat by
reducing the power to the antenna, nevertheless vehicles will still be within the antenna's read
zone for a considerably longer period of time than will often be the case in freeway or open road
scenarios - long enough for a successful "read" to be performed, even if the duty cycle used in
the RFID reader equipment is also lower. One consequence of using a lower duty cycle is that
the overall power consumption of the RFID reader may be significantly reduced. Likewise the
same general consequence (i.e. reduced overall power consumption) follows if a lesser amount
of power is supplied to the antenna. And naturally, the extent of the potential overall power
consumption reduction is even greater if both a lower duty cycle is used and a lesser amount of
power is supplied to the antenna. In any case, these factors may make the issue of delivering
sufficient power to the RFID reader less challenging from a design point of view, and it may also
open up additional possibilities for powering the RFID reader including, for example, optionally
using solar panels on the RFID reader unit itself (either exclusively or as a supplement to some
other power source) to provide power to the RFID reader (this solar power option is of course
generally only applicable to RFID reader units intended for use in outdoor or naturally lit areas).
If it is possible for the RFID reader unit to be powered exclusively by one or more photovoltaic
cells provided on the RFID unit itself (and this is currently thought to be possible), this may
remove the need for power to be supplied from any other remote source (at least in applications
or locations where the RFID reader units are able to be solar powered).
[0077]        Yet another important realisation that helped lead to the development of the present
invention is that, as mentioned above, in parking applications especially, in order to monitor,
say, every single individual parking space in a parking lot, a large number of RFID readers may
be needed. This is true even if one reader is able to monitor two (or multiple) separate spaces.
Thus, for parking applications especially, the number of required readers in a given system is
potentially high. This increases the cost. In order to balance this potential for high cost (due to
the need for high numbers of RFID reader units), it is considered highly desirable to avoid, if
possible, any need to cut or dig into the surface of the road (or the ground surface in the car
park, etc) as part of the installation of the RFID readers. Therefore, it was realized (and it is
considered) that another important design requirement, for the commercial viability of RFID
readers for use in parking and other like applications, is for the RFID reader to be capable of
permanent or semipermanent "on-road" installation - i.e. permanent or semipermanent

 installation directly onto the surface of the road or ground without the need to cut or dig into the
 road at all.
 [0078]        Referring now to Figure 1, this Figure depicts (a portion of) quite a typical two-lane
 road, and on the outside of one of the lanes (the lane closest to view in the Figure) vehicle
 parking spaces are provided in an "end on end" arrangement (configured to accommodate
"parallel parking" of vehicles). This kind of roadside parallel parking arrangement is extremely
common. In Figure 1, four parking spaces happen to be depicted, namely PS1, PS2 , PS3 and
 PS 4. A vehicle is depicted parked in parking space PS2, but the other three depicted parking
spaces are empty in Figure 1. (It will be noted that, given the direction that the vehicle is
 pointing in Figure 1, it follows that Figure 1 should probably be understood to depict a road in a
jurisdiction where vehicles drive on the left-hand side of the road.)
 [0079]        Figure 1 also depicts an arrangement where an RFID reader is provided on the line
of the end boundary between adjacent parking spaces. Accordingly, there is an RFID reader
 R12  located on the line of the end boundary between parking spaces PS1 and PS2 , there is an
 RFID reader R2 ,3 located on the line of the end boundary between parking spaces PS2 and PS3,
etc. Each of the readers incorporates (in this embodiment the reader incorporates within it, as
 part of its structure) an antenna of the form discussed below.
 [0080]        Figure 1 also schematically illustrates, for this embodiment, the required read zone
for each of the depicted RFID readers. The required read zone for each reader is depicted in
 Figure 1 as a region of three-dimensional space (shaded in green in the Figure for visibility),
essentially in the shape of a rectangular prism above the road surface and above each reader.
 Note that all other RFID readers used in the same application (e.g. any other readers located
further along the road and therefore not depicted in Figure 1) would each have an identical
 required read zone.
 [0081]        Some (but not all) dimensions of the required read zone are given (labelled) for the
 read zone of reader R2 ,3 in Figure 1. Dimensions are not given on any of the other read zones
 (for other readers) depicted in Figure 1; however, as mentioned above, those are the same (i.e.
all of the readers, and hence their required read zones, are identical).
 [0082]        At this point it is important to emphasise that the required read zone for the
 respective readers, as illustrated for three example readers in Figure 1, is the read zone that is
thought to be required for RFID readers used in parking applications for vehicles such as
conventional passenger cars, and other vehicles of this general size. In other words, parking
applications where the vehicles are conventional cars, vans, SUVs, etc - i.e. vehicles of the sort
and size that normally park in regular "car parks" or car parking spaces. Thus, the required
 read zone for the respective readers, as depicted in Figure 1, is the read zone that is thought to

be required for readers intended to be used for monitoring parking spaces in parking
applications where these kinds of vehicles park. Therefore, the read zone of each of the readers
in Figure 1 is the read zone that readers should preferably have in order to be suitable for use
in, say, the parallel parking application depicted in Figure 1. The same read zone may (and
should) also be equally applicable for use in other forms of passenger vehicle parking
arrangements/configurations - i.e. where the same kinds of vehicles park, but where the vehicle
parking spaces are arranged in a different configuration, like, say, in a grid like "angled parking"
arrangement as depicted in Figure 2 - this kind of "angled parking" arrangement of vehicle
spaces is extremely common in e.g. car parks found in shopping centres, airports, office
buildings, hotels and the like.
[0083]      However, it is to be noted (and this is alluded to above as well) that the invention is
not necessarily limited in its application to RFID readers (and the antenna therefore) for use in
parking applications for vehicles, and especially not only for vehicles of the particular type and
size just described (although the invention can of course be used for this, and indeed the
embodiments discussed in this Detailed Description section will be described further below
mainly with reference to this). Embodiments of the invention could also be made to be used in,
say, parking facilities where large trucks which are laden with one or more trailers (and which
are hence very long) park end to end, and possibly also side by side.            Such truck parking
arrangements/configurations are quite common at "truck stops" and the like often found at
locations along major highways in many countries. Also, as mentioned above, embodiments of
the invention might also even be used in applications that are not vehicle related, such as e.g.
logistics applications, say, for detecting and/or identifying RFID-tag-bearing shipping containers
that are placed at specific placement locations on the ground in container storage yards or
areas. Anyway, the point is that the present invention could very well also be used in such
other applications (or other or analogous applications); however the particular required read
zone (and its size) shown in Figure 1 likely would not be suitable for such other applications.
This is because the required read zone for each reader depicted in Figure 1, and in particular its
size, shape and location relative to the reader, is set specifically so as to enable the reader to
function as desired in parking (or perhaps gating) applications involving vehicles of the size of
conventional cars and the like, as described above. If the invention were to be used in any of
the other applications just mentioned, the size of the reader's required read zone, and possibly
as a consequence also the relative dimensions and proportions of the antenna itself (discussed
below) may need to be modified/changed (i.e. the configuration of the antenna may need to be
different, with different dimensions and relative proportions (at least) compared to that
discussed below).
[0084]      In any case, returning to the discussion of RFID readers and their required read
zones intended for use in vehicle parking applications for cars and the like (which is the context

in which the embodiments discussed below will mainly be described), as shown in Figure 1, the
required read zone of each of the readers is about 3000 mm (3 m) long. The required read zone
also extends about the same distance from the reader both forward and aft relative to the
direction of vehicle travel on the road. Thus, the required read zone extends about 1500 mm
(1.5 m) ahead, and about 1500 mm (1.5 m) behind, the reader. The required read zone also
extends about the same distance to either side of the reader in the direction perpendicular to
the direction of vehicle travel. The total width (in the said transverse direction) of the required
read zone of each reader is about 2000 mm (2 m). Therefore, it follows that the read zone for
each reader extends about 1000 mm (1 m) to the left, and about 1000 mm (1 m) to the right,
relative to the reader. In terms of height (the dimension perpendicular to the surface of the
ground/road) the required read zone of the reader does not actually begin at ground level (i.e.
the required read zone does not actually touch the ground). Rather, the required read zone
begins about 300 mm (0.3 m) above the surface of the ground/road, and it extends upward from
there about 1000 mm (1 m). In other words, in the vertical direction, the read zone extends from
about 300 mm to about 1300 mm above the road surface.
[0085]       Importantly, the dimensions of the required read zone, and the location of the read
zone relative to the reader, for RFID readers intended for use in this embodiment for these
vehicle parking applications, as described in the previous paragraph, are not chosen at random.
Rather, they are chosen/set for a number of specific reasons - see below. Having said this, it is
not essential for the proper operation of the RFID reader for the required read zone dimensions,
and the read zone's location, to be exactly as described in the previous paragraph. Some
variation of this is possible without affecting to the reader's operability in these applications. This
should become clearer from the discussion below.
[0086]       In order to understand why, in this embodiment, the required read zone for each
RFID reader extends (or should extend) about 1500 mm (1.5 m) ahead and about 1500 mm
(1.5 m) behind the reader, relative to the direction of vehicle travel on the road, it should first be
noted that, in most jurisdictions, the length of a vehicle parking space in "angled parking"
configurations (like in Figure 2) is around 4.8 m to 5.5 m, and the length of a vehicle parking
space in parallel parking applications (like in Figure 1) is around 6 m to 6.5 m.
[0087]       Referring to parallel parking configurations, given the parking space length of about
6 m to 6.5 m, and also given that (as shown in Figure 1) in parallel parking arrangements there
will often be an RFID reader located on the parking space boundary at either end of each
parking space, it follows that the required read zone for the reader at one end of the parking
space extends about 1.5 m into the parking space from that end, and likewise the required read
zone for the reader at the other end of the parking space extends about 1.5 m into the parking
space from that other end. So, the required read zones of the respective RFID readers at either

end of a given parallel parking space extend quite some distance (about 1.5 m) into the parking
space; however neither RFID reader has a read zone that meets/touches or overlaps (or even
comes close to doing so) with the read zone of the other RFID reader monitoring that same
parking space. A gap of about 3-3.5 m (depending on the length of the parking space) remains
in between the adjacent readers' read zones. This is important because the lack of any overlap
between the required read zones of adjacent RFID readers helps to ensure that there is no
interference or "crosstalk" between the readers which might otherwise result in vehicle-plate
RFID-tag read failures or other errors or operational performance reductions.
[0088]       In addition to the above though, another important consideration is that most
vehicles of the kind currently under consideration (i.e. the kinds of vehicles that park in the
parking facilities in questions, like passenger cars, vans, SUVs, and the like) are around 3.6 to 5
m long. This too is important because, even if a vehicle in a parking space is, say, only 3.6 m
long (i.e. a short vehicle), this is still longer than the distance between the read zones of the
readers monitoring that space. Therefore, even for a vehicle which is as short as 3.6 m long
(which few are), when that vehicle is parked in a parking space, provided the vehicle is parked
correctly and centrally in the space (or approximately centrally) in the lengthwise direction, it
follows that the front of the vehicle (and specifically the vehicle's front number plate - with its
RFID tag) should be located within the read zone of the RFID reader at the forward end of the
space, and likewise the rear of the vehicle (and specifically the vehicle's back number plate
with its RFID tag) should be located within the read zone of the RFID reader at the rearward
end of the space. This means that, provided a vehicle is parked approximately centrally in the
space (as generally required to allow room for other vehicles to manoeuvre in and out of
adjacent spaces), the plate RFID tags on both the front and the rear of the vehicle will be able to
be "read" by the RFID readers at the forward and rearward end, respectively, of the parking
space.
[0089]       In fact, even if a vehicle is short (say 3.6m) and even if that vehicle is parked more
towards the front end of the parking space, or more towards the rear end of the space (or
perhaps even across the end boundary between two parking spaces), so long as the RFID tag
on either the vehicle's front plate, or its rear plate, is within the read zone of one of the RFID
readers, the said tag will still be read (even if the tag on the plate at the other end of the vehicle
is not). So, even in the event of a poorly parked vehicle, at least one plate should be read and
(assuming the plate "reads" correctly) the vehicle thereby identified.         Thus, the only way a
parked vehicle may avoid being detected/identified at all (assuming it is parked laterally within
the side boundaries of the parking spaces) is if the vehicle is parked within a parking space but
the vehicle short enough to fit entirely between the read zones of the RFID readers at either end
of that space (i.e. so that neither of the tags on either of the plates at either end of the vehicle is
within the region where it can be read by the relevant RFID reader). However, as mentioned

above, depending on the length of the particular parking space, the space that exists between
the read zones of the adjacent RFID readers that monitor a particular parallel parking space is
generally about 3-3.5 m, but as very few cars are this short in practice, the likelihood that a
car/vehicle will be capable of this is low. (And remember, even if a vehicle does happen to be
short enough to technically fit in the gap between the read zones of the RFID readers that
monitor a particular parallel parking space, such a vehicle will still be "read" (i.e. the tag on one
of its number plates will be read and the vehicle thereby identified) provided the vehicle is
parked slightly forward or aft within the space thereby bringing the front or back number plate
within the read zone of the appropriate RFID reader.)
[0090]       In any case, it will be understood from the above that the about 3000 mm length of
the required read zone for one of the RFID readers, or about 1500 mm forward and aft from the
reader, is not necessarily fixed - it could change or vary somewhat from this - provided the
required read zone length is sufficient to operate as just described.
[0091]       It should be noted at this point that, in parallel parking arrangements like in Figure 1,
if the presence of a vehicle is detected (e.g. by one RFID reader), but the vehicle's respective
front and rear plate tags cannot both be read by the adjacent forward and aft RFID readers
monitoring a particular single parking space, this may generate an alert (within the electronic
parking management system or other system of which the RFID readers form apart) that
something about the vehicle is untoward and potentially requiring further investigation. For
example, it could be that the vehicle is incorrectly parked (e.g. parked too far forward or too far
back within the space, or parked immediately on top of a single RFID reader across multiple
spaces, or perhaps at an angle and/or far enough outside the side boundaries of the parking
space to place one of the license plate tags outside the required read zone). In these cases, the
system may alert e.g. a traffic warden or the like to investigate and potentially issue an
infringement notice for incorrect parking. Alternatively, a read failure corresponding to one or
both of the vehicle's tags could indicate damage to or malfunction of one of the plate tags. As a
further alternative, even if a "read" can be obtained from the tags on both the front and the rear
of the vehicle, if both tags do not read "correctly" (e.g. if both plates do not read as
corresponding to the same vehicle), this too could indicate something untoward, for example it
could be that one or both plates have been intentionally swapped in order to try and make the
vehicle undetectable for enforcement purposes, etc.
[0092]       Continuing to refer to the parallel parking scenario depicted in Figure 1, the width of
the required read zone, extending about 1000 mm to either side of a hypothetical centreline
down the centre of the parking space (or about 2000 mm wide in total), is wide enough such
that, even if a vehicle parked in a parking space is parked somewhat "off centre" (i.e. slightly
closer to one side of the space than the other) within the space, and furthermore even if the

location on the front and/or rear of the vehicle where the vehicle's RFID tag-bearing license
plate is mounted is off centre on the vehicle (e.g. some European cars have a front license plate
that is located more towards one side of the car than the other, and some 4WDs and other
SUVs have the rear license plate mounted more to one side of the vehicle than the other, or
possibly off-centre on the back of the vehicle's rear-mounted spare wheel), nevertheless the
width of the required read zone is still such that (i.e. it is wide enough that) the said plate on the
vehicle should still be located within the read zone (and hence readable by the RFID reader). It
will therefore be understood that the about 2000 mm width of the required read zone, or about
1000 mm left and right from the reader, is not necessarily fixed - it too could change or vary
somewhat from this - provided the required read zone width is sufficient to operate as just
described.
[0093]       Similar considerations apply to the vertical positioning and height of the required
read zone - i.e. from 300 mm to 1300 mm above the surface of the road. Almost all vehicles,
ranging from low-slung sports cars (with license plates mounted quite low to the ground) to
4WDs and SUVs (with license plates mounted quite high off the ground), will have their license
plates mounted at a height within this range (i.e. between about 300 mm and about 1300 mm
above the road surface). Accordingly, regardless of what type of vehicle it is and what height the
license plate is mounted on the vehicle, the license plate should nevertheless be within the
required read zone. Having said that, again, the required read zone height of about 300 mm to
about 1300 mm above the road surface is not necessarily fixed - it could begin at a greater or
lesser height above the ground surface, and its total height could also be greater or less
provided the range is sufficient that license plates (both front and rear license plates) on the
range of vehicles (or most of them) likely to be required to be read are within the said height
range.
[0094]       It may be noted at this point that the width of the required read zone in Figure 1,
which is about 2000 mm and centred within the width of the parking space, is less than the total
width of the parking space, which is about 2400 mm (in Figure 1 at least, although this is fairly
typical). Accordingly, even at the respective end regions within a given parking space, which in
the middle of the parking space are longitudinally within the required read zone, nevertheless on
the outside edges at the ends of the parking space there is an about 200 mm wide gap on either
side that is not covered by (i.e. it is not within) the required read zone. It was mentioned above
that the width of the required read zone, namely the central (approx.) 2000 mm within the
space, is wide enough that most (if not all) vehicles' license plates should be located within this
region, even if the plates are mounted "off centre" on the vehicle. The question might be asked,
why not extend the required read zone to cover the entire 2400 mm with the parking space?
[0095]       The answer to this can be more readily understood when it is recognised that,

                                                        -1 -1
preferably, an RFID reader with the same required read zone should also be able to be used in
other parking arrangements, such as the angled parking arrangement depicted in Figure 2.
[0096]        As shown in Figure 2, in angled parking arrangements such as this, a maximum of
two spaces can be adjacent to each other "end to end" (e.g. PSA,1              - PSA,2,  PSB,1   -  PSB,2 , and
PSAA1   -  PSAA,2 , PSBB, 1  - PSBB, 2 , etc), but there are a large number of such "end to end" pairs
stacked together immediately side-by-side one another (e.g.           PSA,1-2, PSB,1-2, PSC, 1-2 , and PSAA, 1
2, PSBB,1-2, PSCC, 1-2 , etc). In this general kind of arrangement, rather than having a pair of (i.e.
two different) RFID readers monitoring a single parking space (such as with one reader on
either end of the parking space as in Figure 1) there is instead a single RFID reader monitoring
the two separate parking spaces in each "end-to-end" pair. For instance, the single reader                   RA
operates to monitor both parking space             PSA1   and parking space   PSA,2.  Likewise, the single
reader RBB operates to monitor both parking space PSBB, 1 and parking space PSBB, 2
[0097]        With the foregoing in view, the reason why it is important for the width of the RFID
reader's required read zone NOT to extend the full width of the parking space (e.g. 2400 mm in
Figure 1 and Figure 2) is that, if this were to be the case, in angled parking arrangements like
the one shown in Figure 2, this could cause the required read zones of adjacent readers (e.g.
like RA   and  RB,  or RBB and RcC, etc) to overlap with one another (or come close to it), which
could in turn give rise to potential for crosstalk, other forms of mutual signal transmission
interference, etc. On the other hand, by ensuring that the required read zone for each RFID
reader is less than the width of the parking space, and by ensuring that the readers are
positioned substantially at or near the centre in between the long side boundaries in the
respective parking spaces that they are monitoring, this insures that the potential for "crosstalk"
between side-by-side RFID readers is minimised.
[0098]        Notwithstanding what is said in the previous paragraph, similar to above, the size
and shape of the required read zone is nevertheless such that, if a car pulls into a particular
angled parking space (i.e. any parking space in Figure 2), regardless of whether the vehicle
drives forward "nose in" to the space or alternatively reverses "back in" to the space, provided
the vehicle becomes correctly parked (and not across the boundaries or covering multiple
spaces) one of the vehicle's license plates (the front plate if the vehicle went "nose in" or the
rear plate if the vehicle went "back in") will be within the required read zone, and hence read by
the reader.
[0099]        At this point it is important to note that RFID signalling, as used in the kinds of
applications currently under consideration, involves what might be described as "modulated
radar" signalling methods/protocols/techniques. It is not necessary for present purposes to go
into the full details of what these methods/protocols/techniques involve. However, it is useful to
note that, it is possible (as mentioned above) for the presence of a vehicle (or the presence of a

                                                     -J-r
portion of the vehicle) that is located within the read zone of an RFID reader to be detected,
even if that RFID reader is unable to obtain a "read" of an RFID tag on that vehicle (or perhaps
if the vehicle does not have a tag, or the vehicle's tag is not located within the read zone).
Having said this, in angled parking arrangements such as the one illustrated in Figure 2, partly
because of the low duty cycle at which the RFID reader operates (see below) and also due in
part to the very low speed at which vehicles will generally be travelling as they move into or out
of parking spaces (and indeed vehicles are actually completely stationary when parked in a
parking space), it follows that if there is a vehicle located in (or moving slowly into or out of) only
one of the two parking spaces that is being monitored by a single RFID reader, that RFID
reader will be able to detect that there is presently a vehicle present in one (only one) of the
parking spaces; however it may not be able to determine which one of those two parking
spaces the vehicle is located in. Similarly (and again referring to parking arrangements such as
the one illustrated in Figure 2), if there is a vehicle located in (or slowly moving into or out of)
both of the two parking spaces being monitored by a single RFID reader (or if a vehicle is
parked/stationary in one and a vehicle is slowly moving into or out of the other), the RFID reader
will be able to detect that there is presently a vehicle present in both parking spaces; however it
may not be able to determine which vehicle is in which space. In either of these cases though,
provided the RFID reader is able to correctly "read" the RFID tag on the vehicle or vehicles, the
RFID reader (or the associated system) will be able to positively identify the vehicle, or both of
the vehicles, even if it cannot tell which space the (or each) vehicle is in.
[00100]      It will usually be slightly different in the case of parallel parking arrangements such
as the one depicted in Figure 1.             This is because, in these kinds of parallel parking
arrangements, each individual parking space is monitored by two different RFID readers, and as
mentioned above it will normally be the case that when a vehicle is properly parked in a given
parallel parking space, the RFID tag on the vehicle's front plate will be read by the RFID reader
at the forward end of the parking space and the tag on the vehicle's rear license plate will be
read by the RFID reader at the rearward end of the parking space. Accordingly, if a vehicle
enters and moves properly into position in a single parallel parking space, the presence of that
vehicle (at least) should generally/usually be detected by the two RFID readers monitoring
space. And if the presence of a vehicle is simultaneously detected by the two separate RFID
readers that are monitoring a single parking space, then naturally it can be concluded that there
is a vehicle located in that space. Also, as mentioned above, both RFID readers (i.e. both of the
readers monitoring a particular parking space) should also be able to "read" the RFID tags on
the respective front and rear license plate of the said vehicle, and if both plates "read" correctly
(i.e. both read as corresponding to the same vehicle, etc), then it may generally be concluded
that nothing is untoward. On the other hand, as discussed above, if one of the plates does not
read correctly (or does not read at all), or if both plates "read" but each reads as corresponding
to a different vehicle (or the like), the heuristics of the system may operate to generate a signal

                                                   -1
or alert that something associated with the vehicle is untoward prompting further action to be
taken (e.g. by a parking or law enforcement official, etc).
[00101]      An explanation was given above for one reason why it is important for the width of
the RFID reader's required read zone to be less than the with a vehicle parking space. This
explanation was given with reference to the angled parking arrangement illustrated in Figure 2.
Basically, as explained above, it is important in angled parking for the required read zone of
each RFID reader to be less than the width of the parking space, and for respective readers to
be located on or near the centreline of the spaces that they are monitoring, so as to prevent
"crosstalk" between adjacent RFID readers.
[00102]       There is also another reason why it may be important for the width of the RFID
reader's required read zone to be less than the width of the vehicle parking space, and this
reason is more relevant in the context of parallel parking arrangements like the one depicted in
Figure 1. In the context of parallel parking, a reason why it may be important to ensure that the
width of the RFID reader's required read zone is less than the width of the parking space (or
perhaps it is more accurate to say that it is important to ensure that the RFID reader's required
read zone does not extend beyond the boundaries of the parking space in the width/transverse
direction) is because, whilst it is important for vehicles that are located within the parking space
boundaries to be detected and their RFID tags read, it is also very important not to accidentally
detect the presence of, or read the RFID tags on, vehicles which are simply passing by along
the road adjacent to the parallel parking spaces.       If the RFID tag on a vehicle that is simply
passing by were to be accidentally read (by two adjacent RFID readers), it could be incorrectly
concluded that that vehicle is parked in the parking space being monitored by those two
readers, in which case a parking fee could be incorrectly imposed, or a parking fine incorrectly
issued, or the like.
[00103]       It was mentioned above that one of the important realisations that helped lead to the
development of the present invention was that, because vehicles are moving at such
comparatively low speeds (if not stationary) in the kinds of vehicle parking or gating (or other
like) applications in which the present invention is likely to be used, the vehicle will consequently
be within the antenna's "read zone" for a much greater period of time. And this in turn opens up
a number of possibilities, including the possibility of using a lower (perhaps significantly lower)
polling duty cycle. By way of indication (albeit without limitation) it is thought that in the kinds of
parallel and angled vehicle parking applications currently being discussed with reference to
Figure 1 and Figure 2 (and given the low speeds at which vehicles travel in these scenarios), a
detection/identification pulse from the RFID reader's antenna every two seconds is should be
sufficient, though this timing can of course be altered or optimised for different installations or
applications. Where a detection/identification pulse frequency of once every two seconds is

used, the detection/identification pulse could last, say, about 4 ms or less, thus resulting in a
duty cycle of 0.2% or less (although again this is by way of indication only and without
limitation). In any case, even if the specific pulse frequency and duration just described (and the
consequent duty cycle) is treated only as a guide (although this is indeed thought to be at least
representative of the kind of duty cycle that may be used with embodiments of the present
invention), it will nevertheless be appreciated that such a low duty cycle may be beneficial in
reducing power requirements and heat generation.
[00104]       It was also mentioned above that one of the consequences of using a lower duty
cycle, namely that the overall power consumption of the RFID reader may be significantly
reduced, may also make the issue of delivering sufficient power to the RFID reader less
challenging from a design point of view, and it may also open up additional possibilities for
powering the RFID reader including, for example, using one or more solar panels on the RFID
reader unit itself (either exclusively or as a supplement to some other power source) to provide
power to the RFID reader. Such solar panel(s) (photovoltaic cells) may (although it/they need
not necessarily or only) operate to charge a rechargeable battery or other rechargeable power
storage device in or associated with the RFID reader. Thus, during hours of darkness or other
periods of low light (or low solar radiation) the RFID reader may operate using power drawn
from the rechargeable battery/power source. Of course, during daylight hours (or periods of
solar radiation exposure) the RFID reader may also draw power from the rechargeable
battery/power source (possibly at the same time as the rechargeable battery/power source is
being charged by the solar panel(s)), although during daylight hours etc the RFID reader could
also be powered directly from energy generated by the solar cells
[00105]       It is thought that there may often be a need to communicate wirelessly with the RFID
reader, and where said wireless communication is in addition to, and separate from, the RFID
communication between the RFID reader and vehicle-mounted RFID tags. For example, there
may be a need for the RFID reader to be able to communicate wirelessly with a separate
computer, or mobile device, etc, e.g. for the purpose of initial setup, or adjusting or altering
some mode or manner of the reader's operation, or for diagnostics, or for obtaining data or
information that may be stored on memory contained within the RFID reader, etc. In any case,
these possible reasons why communication with the reader might be required are merely
examples, and are not exhaustive. Having said this, in view of the desirability of minimising the
power consumption of the RFID reader, it is thought that the method used for this wireless
communication should also have low power consumption requirements. A number of low power
wireless communication methods and technologies are available (e.g. Bluetooth is one
example), and any such may be used.
[00106]       Yet another point to be made is that, if the power consumption of the RFID reader is

                                                    .J /
sufficiently low that it is possible for the reader to be powered exclusively by solar panels, which
may be mounted on or part of the RFID reader itself, and also if the separate communication
that may be required with the reader (e.g. for setup, diagnostics, etc) can be performed
wirelessly, the consequence of this may be that there is no need for any cables (power or
communication cables) connected to the RFID reader unit at all once it is installed. And this in
turn may simplify the installation requirements for the reader, including potentially allowing the
unit to be simply attached on the road surface without any need to cut, dig into or otherwise
modify the road surface (except perhaps to apply an adhesive or the like for the attachment of
the unit to the surface).
[00107]      Another point to be made is that the RFID reader may be able to operate in (what
might be described as) a number of "modes" including, in particular, a very low-power (vehicle)
"detection" mode, and a higher-power (vehicle) "identification" mode. In the low-power detection
mode, the RFID reader may use the antenna to continuously (or effectively continuously)
transmit/emit a signal whose intended purpose is simply for use in detecting the presence of a
vehicle by using a RADAR (or RADAR-like) methodology. RADAR methodologies essentially
involve a radio (RF) signal that is first transmitted by a sensor, and that signal is then reflected
by the object to be observed, and the reflected signal is received and interpreted by the sensor
(e.g. for the purpose of detecting the presence of the object, and/or its location and/or
movement relative to the sensor, etc). In the case of the present RFID application, when the
reader is in the "detection" mode, a low-power signal may be continuously (or effectively
continuously) emitted by the RFID reader (using the antenna), and that signal may then be
"reflected" back to the reader by a vehicle when the vehicle is nearby or approaching, and upon
receipt of such a reflected signal the RFID reader may thereby "detect" the presence of the
vehicle. It is possible that the RFID reader may sometimes receive a signal reflected back by a
vehicle even when the said vehicle is outside the RFID reader's required read zone. However,
the point to make about this is that the required read zone (described above) is the region inside
which the RFID reader is required to be able to communicate with a vehicle's plate-mounted
RFID tag for the purpose of performing vehicle identification (not mere vehicle detection) if (or
whenever) a vehicle's tag is within the said region.        Therefore, it is possible that the RFID
reader, when operating in the low-power "detection" mode, may sometimes detect the presence
of a vehicle which is outside the reader's required read zone, even if that vehicle is not
immediately "identified" (or perhaps not identified until/unless the vehicle moves into or within
the required read zone).
[00108]       It was mentioned above that, in addition to being able to operate in the low-power
"detection" mode, the RFID reader may also be able to operate in a higher-power "identification"
mode. In the high-power "identification mode", different radio equipment within the RFID reader
may be used (or radio equipment may be used in a different way) compared to the equipment

                                                  -1 "
used (or the way it is used) in the low-power "detection" mode. Also the signal transmitted from
the RFID reader, which in the "identification" mode is intended to facilitate/initiate "two-way"
communication by way of modulated (information-carrying) signals exchanged between the
RFID reader and RFID tag on a vehicle's license plate (and thus facilitate identification of the
particular vehicle), is a MUCH higher power signal than is emitted by the RFID reader in the
low-power "detection" mode.
[00109]     The RFID reader may make use of the ability to operate in these two different
modes described above (i.e. the "detection" mode and "identification" mode) to help minimise
overall power consumption. This may be done in that the RFID reader operates normally/usually
in the lower-power (and hence less power consuming) "detection" mode, and then switches to
the higher-power (and more power consuming) "identification" mode (by switching on the RF
communication equipment required for this, or switching the way the equipment is operated, as
required) only when a vehicle is actually "detected" by the reader while in the "detection" mode.
Hence, the RFID reader may switch into the more power-consuming "identification" mode only
when the need for actual/positive vehicle identification is required (i.e. when the presence of a
vehicle whose identity needs to be determined is detected). Once identification of the vehicle
has been achieved, the reader may switch back into the low power detection mode - note that
in the detection mode the reader will be able to detect the vehicle for so long as the vehicle
remains (i.e. while it remains in the parking space or the like), and also when it leaves (this will
be the point where the vehicle ceases to be detected by the reader). The reader can therefore
remain in the low power detection mode until a vehicle is subsequently detected (this may be
the same or a different vehicle - it will not be known until the vehicle is "identified").
[00110]     Even if the RFID reader equipment is operating at a low duty cycle (as discussed
elsewhere herein), nevertheless the fact that vehicles will generally be moving very slowly as
they approach the RFID reader (and they may often even become completely stationary within
the RFID reader's required read zone) in the applications presently under consideration means
that, even at a low duty cycle, the RFID reader will be easily capable of detecting a vehicle, and
then switching to the high-power "identification" mode in time, and with plenty of time, to
complete a complete "read" to positively identify the vehicle by communication with the RFID
tag on the vehicle's license plate.
[00111]     In addition to saving power (which is particularly important e.g. where the RFID
reader is powered exclusively by solar power and without any other external power source),
only using the higher power level required for vehicle identification when this is necessary may
also help to reduce heat generation and the risk of overheating in the RFID reader.
[00112]     Turning to Figure 3, this figure provides a schematic illustration of the configuration,
and the relative dimensions, of one embodiment of the presently-proposed antenna. In other

                                                    -1 -/
words, this is the configuration of an antenna which is thought to be capable of producing a
radiation pattern (the shape/configuration/energy density distribution of) which in turn allows the
RFID reader (of which the antenna forms part) to achieve the required read zone discussed in
detail above, including with reference to Figure 1 and Figure 2.          Thus, the radiation pattern
produced by the an antenna in Figure 3 is such that the antenna focusses/directs enough
energy/power into the correct regions of space around (relative to) the antenna that the antenna
(and its associated RFID reader electronics) are able to communicate with any plate tag that
comes within the required read zone, such as the read zone described with reference to Figure
1 and Figure 2.
[00113]       It is also useful to note at this point that Figure 9 and Figure 10 contain schematic
illustrations of the configuration of the proposed surrounding and supporting structure that an
(embodiment of an) RFID reader may provide for the proposed antenna in Figure 3.
[00114]       Note that, in Figure 3, and also a number of the other Figures, the directions
corresponding to what will be described as the antenna's X, Y and Z axes are depicted.
However, in each of the Figures where the directions of the X, Y and Z axes are shown, the
axes themselves are actually shown off to one side relative to the antenna. This is merely for
illustrative purposes. In fact, the origin of (or the point of intersection between) the X, Y and Z
axes is actually located in the plane of the antenna's ground plane, and at the geometric centre
thereof. In other words, the origin of (or point of intersection between) the X, Y and Z axes is
actually located, essentially, at the base of the antenna's feed pin 30, where the feed pin 30
connects to the ground plane 10. This will be readily understood with reference to the
description given below.
[00115]       It is to be clearly understood that the antenna in the embodiment schematically
illustrated in Figure 3 is a novel and highly advantageous design suitable for use in a low profile
RFID reader antenna used in RFID communication in the UHF band. And it is to be stressed
that the antenna in Figure 3 has a low profile. In other words, when the antenna (or the RFID
reader containing the antenna) is placed/installed on the road or ground surface, the whole of
the antenna (and likewise the associated RFID structure) remains low to the ground and does
not project or "stick up" high above the ground. This is important because, given the use to
which the antenna is to be placed (with vehicles driving in and around and even directly over the
top of the antenna/reader), if the antenna were to stick up high above the ground it would
almost certainly be quickly damaged or destroyed through collision with a vehicle, not to
mention also creating a danger and potential for accident and/or injury to both vehicles and
persons.
[00116]       Another point to stress is that creating an RFID reader antenna that has a low profile
but which is also able to provide a radiation pattern suitable for road-going-vehicle detection and

identification has in the past proven extremely difficult. This is discussed further in the earlier
patent applications discussed above.           In any case, the antenna in the embodiment
schematically illustrated in Figure 3 is able (it is thought) to achieve these things, and in relation
to the requirement for the antenna to have a low profile, the overall height of the antenna in
Figure 3 (and of the RFID reader as shown in Figure 9) is no more than about 25 mm. This
maximum height (about 25 mm) is the same as the height of a typical cat-eye ("cat-eye" is the
general name usually used to refer to the kind of raised, but low profile, retro-reflective road
marker commonly used on public roads). Limiting the height of the antenna, and the associated
RFID reader, to no more than about 25 mm should help to ensure that vehicles may roll easily
over the reader, without damage to the reader or the vehicle. The angle of attack (i.e. the angle
of slope of the sides) on the sides of the RFID reader structure should be low (preferably no
steeper than 450) - this is mainly to reduce humans tripping over the unit.
[00117]      The antenna in Figure 3 has a structure comprising a ground portion 10 and a
radiating component 20. The radiating component has a first side 22, and a second side 24 that
is spaced apart from the first side 22. The first side 22 has a ground edge portion 23 which is in
contact with the ground portion 10, and the first side 22 extends, from its ground edge portion
23, away (upward) from a surface (i.e. the surface of the ground portion 10) on one side (the
upper side) of the ground portion 10. The second side 24 also has a ground edge portion 25
which is in contact with the ground portion 10, and the second side 24 also extends, from its
ground edge portion 25, away (upward) from (in this case) the single/same surface on the upper
side of the ground portion 10. The radiating component also has a joining portion 26 which is
spaced apart from the ground portion 10 on said one side (the upper side) of the ground portion
10, and the joining portion 26 extends between the first side 22 and the second side 24, such
that there is a region of space 29 defined between the first side 22 and the second side 24 and
between the joining portion 26 and the ground portion 10. In this embodiment, both the first side
22 and the second side 24 have a slot therein. These slots are labelled 27 and 28 respectively.
[00118]      It can also be seen in Figure 3 that, in this embodiment, the antenna's ground
portion 10 is substantially flat/planar and rectangular, such that it might be referred to as a
(rectangular) ground plane 10. The radiating component 20 might also be referred to as a top
radiator. Thus, expressed in these terms, the antenna in the embodiment in Figure 3 has a flat
ground plane 10 and box shaped top radiator 20. The two slots 27 and 28 in the respective
sides of the top radiator 20 extend along for almost the entire length of the top radiator 20 on
either side. And because the top radiator 20 extends substantially across the entire width of the
ground plane 10 (and hence the entire width of the antenna), accordingly the respective slots 27
and 28 also extend across almost the entire width of the antenna. It is anticipated that the top
radiator 20 will often be soldered to the ground plane 10. The two ends of the box shaped top
radiator 20 are open - i.e. what would otherwise be the "faces" of the box shape that lie along

the long edges of the antenna are missing/absent (or at least there are no conductive or
radiative antenna elements located in or across or covering either of these ends of the open box
shaped cavity within the radiator 20). The radiator 20 is fed from the ground plane 10 at the
centre position with the help of a feeding pin 30 whose length is essentially the height of the
antenna. In other words, the feed pin 30 is oriented perpendicularly to the ground plane 10 and
it extends between and connects the ground plane 10 and the underside of the joining portion
26 of the radiator 20 half way along the length of the radiator 20 and half way between the first
side 22 and the second side 24.
[00119]      The fact that the antenna is vertically polarized is important because the antenna
needs to be able to communicate with the RFID tags on vehicle license plates, and it is thought
(or expected) that the RFID tags on vehicle license plates will also be vertically polarised (i.e.
they will produce vertically polarised radiation). This is due to the kinds of antenna likely to be
used by the RFID tags on vehicle license plates (such as patch antennas, although a range of
other types of antennas may be used by the RFID tags on vehicle license plates). The beam
shape of the RFID tags on vehicle license plates will also (it is thought) point (or the direction of
max gain of the radiation pattern of the antenna of the RFID tag on vehicle plates will point)
directly away from the vehicle (or perpendicular to the plane of the license plate). Again, this is
due to the kinds of antenna likely to be used by the RFID tags on vehicle license plates. As
mentioned above, the fact that the antenna emits energy in the form of electromagnetic waves
that are vertically polarised is thought to be advantageous because electromagnetic waves
which are vertically polarised propagate better when radiated from a ground plane than
electromagnetic waves that are horizontally polarised.
[00120]      Referring again to Figure 3, the slots 27 and 28 in the sides of the radiator 20 are
both around 0.5Ao in length, where Ao denotes the free space wavelength of the centre
frequency used by the antenna. The total width of the antenna is slightly greater than this, at
around 0.55A.    However, it is to be noted that, with the slots 27 and 28 set at or about around
0.5AO, the width of the antenna may still be increased further, if required, without significantly
changing the antenna performance. The height of the top radiator 20 - i.e. the vertical distance
between the ground plane 10 and the joining portion 26 (ignoring the thickness of the material
used particularly in the radiator 20 which is very thin and therefore negligible) - is around 0.06Ao.
The width of the top radiator 20 (i.e. its dimension in the antenna's overall lengthwise direction)
is about 0.2AO, which means that the slots 27 and 28 are both 0.1 Ao away from the feeding pin
30 in the antenna's lengthwise direction. It is thought that this distance may help the antenna to
effectively resonate and also provide high impedance matching. The ground plane 10, and
hence the antenna overall, has a length of about Ao, although this can be shortened through
optimization.

[00121]       It is useful at this point to briefly consider the operation of the antenna, and in
particular the operation of the antenna's top radiator 20. Let us begin by examining the magnetic
field distributions in the slots 27 and 28 in the two opposing side faces 22 and 24 of the top
radiator 20, when the antenna is "on" (i.e. radiating RF energy). As can be seen from Figure 4
(and from the graphical representation it contains of the complex magnetic fields within the slots
27 and 28), when the antenna is "on" (which is what Figure 4 depicts), each of the slots is
essentially (i.e. they both operate as) a half-wave radiator, with both of them being excited by a
single feeding (the single feed pin 30). The fact that both slots operate as (or similar to) a half
wave radiator is evident from the depicted magnetic filed strength distribution shown in each of
the slots.    Note that the colour distributions in Figure 4 only indicate the magnitude of the
magnetic filed strength in each slot. However, the relative polarity is represented in Figure 4 by
the dashed line superimposed over slot 27, and as can be seen, the shape of this dashed line
corresponds to the shape of half a sinusoidal waveform - so half the wavelength of the signal
thus indicating that the slot 27 operates as a half wave radiator, and it is the same for slot 28.
[00122]       Turning now to the "radiator box" which is created by the overall configuration of the
top radiator 20, this radiator box (i.e. the top radiator 20) functions (at least somewhat) in the
manor of a (electromagnetic) cavity resonator. What a cavity resonator is, and generally how
they work/operate, is well understood in the field of electronics and antenna design. However,
for    the      purposes     of    brief  explanation     here,   it  is    stated   in    Wikipedia
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resonator) that
         [a] cavity resonator is a hollow closed conductor such as a metal box or a cavity within a
         metal block, containing electromagnetic waves (radio waves) reflecting back and forth
         between the cavity's walls. When a source of radio waves at one of the cavity's resonant
         frequencies is applied, the oppositely-moving waves form standing waves, and the cavity
         stores      electromagnetic      energy... [C]avity    resonators      are    only      used
         at microwave frequencies and above, where wavelengths are short enough that the
         cavity is conveniently small in size.
         Due to the low resistance of their conductive walls, cavity resonators have very high Q
         factors; that is their bandwidth, the range of frequencies around the resonant frequency
         at which they will resonate, is very narrow. Thus they can act as narrow bandpass filters.
         Their resonant frequency can be tuned by moving one of the walls of the cavity in or out,
         changing its size.
[00123]       Whilst the above quote from Wikipedia describes what a cavity resonator is, and
how they work, the above quote does so only in the very simplest of terms, and it is also to be
recalled that the top radiator 20 in the antenna presently being considered here is not actually
(or merely) a conventional/pure cavity resonator. For instance, the top radiator 20 is open ended
at either end (see above), not fully enclosed like conventional cavity resonators, and the top

radiator 20 also incorporates other openings in the form of the slots 27 and 28 along its
respective long sides - these particularly have a significant impact on the overall radiative
properties of the top radiator 20 vis-a-vis a conventional cavity resonator.
[00124]       Nevertheless, it is thought to be generally accurate to say (as was stated above)
that the radiator box (i.e. the top radiator 20) in the present antenna functions in at least
something like the manor of a cavity resonator. However, it must also be borne in mind that, for
reasons discussed above, the top radiator 20 (and indeed the antenna overall) must have a low
profile (i.e. a low physical height). This is significant because it is actually very difficult to design
a cavity resonator (or an antenna incorporating a cavity resonator) which has a low profile (low
physical height) and which also provides good impedance matching.
[00125]       Impedance matching (i.e. what this is, and why it is important) is also well
understood in the fields of antenna design and electronics generally. Speaking in very general
terms, in the present context, impedance matching is essentially about making two impedances,
like (a) the impedance of a transmitting antenna and (b) the output impedance of the signal
transmitter (or its amplifier) that supplies the signal (as an electrical current) to the transmitting
antenna, match.      The reason why matching these impedances is important is because if the
impedances do not match, none of (or very little of) the power generated by the signal
transmitter (or its amplifier) will be delivered to the antenna, and therefore no energy (or very
little energy) will be transmitted by the antenna. For instance, at very low signal frequencies, if
the impedance of the antenna is much smaller than the output impedance of the transmitter,
little or no energy will be transmitted by the antenna, but equally (and recalling that we are
talking about low frequencies), if the impedance of the antenna is much larger than the output
impedance of the transmitter, again, little or no energy will be transmitted by the antenna.
[00126]       There is actually considerably more to impedance matching than the previous
paragraph might suggest. For one thing, impedance is an inherently complex quantity (i.e.
having real and imaginary components), given that impedance relates current to voltage in an
antenna and current has both magnitude (real component) and phase (imaginary component).
Therefore, even for the comparatively simple case of very low frequencies mentioned above,
impedance matching does not simply involve setting the impedance of the antenna to be equal
to the output impedance of the transmitter. Rather, at low frequencies, the antenna impedance
and the transmitter output impedance will generally be matched if one is set as (or about) the
complex conjugate of the other. The situation is even more complicated for high signal
frequencies, basically, because at high frequencies the lengths of the wires and other
connectors that connect things become a significant fraction of signal wavelength, and this
complicates matters further.      Even so (i.e. even at high frequencies where things are more
complicated than they are at low frequencies - and the present invention operates at high

frequencies) the basic premise remains the same, namely that the purpose of impedance
matching is (in terms of the example above) to ensure that the output impedance of the
transmitter and the antenna impedance are set (or so that one is set relative to the other) in a
manner that maximises the power delivered to, and radiated by, the antenna. If the impedances
are not well "matched", not very much power will be delivered to, or radiated by, the antenna,
and power instead ends up being reflected back to the transmitter (which can be a problem in
itself if high power is generated). This loss of power is sometimes quantified by reference to
quantities such as "return loss" and impedance "mismatch loss".
[00127]       An indication of how well matched an antenna is to its transmitter can be gleaned
from a quantity known as the voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR). As mentioned above, if the
transmitter output impedance and the antenna impedance are not matched, part of the power
generated by the transmitter will be reflected back from (and not delivered to) the antenna. More
specifically, this reflected part of the power (i.e. the reflected signal portion) has both magnitude
and phase, and this gives rise to addition and subtraction (constructive and destructive
interference) with the incident power signal being sent by the transmitter to the antenna, and
this addition and subtraction (constructive and destructive interference) between the incident
signal and the reflected signal in turn gives rise to a voltage standing wave pattern, in this case
between the transmitter and the antenna. The ratio of the maximum to minimum voltage
amplitude in this standing wave pattern is the voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR).
[00128]       A related quantity is the above mentioned quantity, return loss. Return loss is a
measure (in dB) of the ratio of the power in the incident signal to that in the reflected signal, and
as defined it is always positive. By way of example, if the matching between a transmitter and
its antenna achieves a 10 dB return loss, this means that 1/10 (or 10%) of the incident power is
reflected. Note: the higher the return loss, the less power is actually lost.
[00129]       Another related quantity is the above-mentioned quantity, mismatch loss. Mismatch
loss is a measure of how much the transmitted power is attenuated due to the reflection. By
way of example, an antenna with a VSWR of 2 would have a reflection coefficient of 0.333, a
mismatch loss of 0.51 dB, and a return loss of 9.54 dB (meaning approximately 11% of the
transmitter power is reflected back).
[00130]       Referring again to VSWR, as defined, this is a real number that is always greater
than one. A VSWR of 1 indicates no mismatch loss (and also no return loss, meaning the
antenna is perfectly matched to the transmitter). Higher VSWR values indicate greater
mismatch loss and lower return loss. In another example, a VSWR of 3.0 indicates about 75%
of the power is delivered to the antenna (i.e. 1.25 dB mismatch loss, 6.0 dB return loss, and
about 25% of the transmitted power is lost). In a further example, a VSWR of 5.0 indicates
about 44% of the power is lost (i.e. 2.55 dB mismatch loss and a 3.5 dB return loss.

[00131]      Incidentally, typical antenna matching achieves a return loss of approximately 10 dB
(equivalent to a VSWR of approximately 2). However, for RFID, and especially in the difficult
on-road/ground placement presently being considered, a VSWR better than 1.25 (equivalent to
a return loss of approximately 19-20 dB) is thought to be desired for the signal frequency band
(i.e. the antenna's operational signal frequency band) of interest.
[00132]      It is to be clearly noted that the above discussion of impedance matching, and the
various measures and quantities associated with this, is not a complete or comprehensive
explanation of the topic of impedance matching, etc (far from it). Rather, the above discussion is
provided merely to emphasise the importance that impedance matching plays in antenna
design. With this in mind, it is now useful to repeat what was mentioned above, namely that it is
very difficult to design a cavity resonator antenna having a low profile (low physical height) and
which also provides good impedance matching. The significance of this may now be more fully
understood. (Basically, the antenna has to have a low profile, for reasons explained above, but
it must also provide or allow for good impedance matching, also for reasons described above.
However, heretofore, achieving both of these two requirements together/at the same time/in the
same antenna has proven extremely difficult to achieve.) Furthermore, in light of this, those
skilled in the art will understand that, in order for an antenna of the type discussed herein to be
implemented in any practical/realistic application, optimisation of the antenna may be (typically
would-be) required.
[00133]      Turning now to Figure 5, it should be noted initially that, in Figure 5 (and the same
also applies to Figure 7), only one side (the outside) of each of the slots 27 and 28 is effectively
radiating. Radiation is thus produced (i.e. the RF energy produced by the antenna carrying the
signal is produced) and it "comes out" of the cavity resonator from the sides 22 and 24, creating
the bidirectional radiation pattern depicted in Figure 5. It is also to be noted that the resonating
frequencies of the antenna are defined by the dimensions (particularly the dimensions of the top
radiator 20) described above with reference to Figure 3. Impedance matching of the antenna
can be improved by adjusting the slot width of slots 27 and 28 (i.e. how wide the respective
slots are in the vertical direction), the slot position (i.e. how far up the respective sides 22, 24
the slots are located, or in other words how high above the ground plane 10 they are) and
especially by adjusting the feeding pin radius. The general antenna configuration described
above (i.e. with the particular dimensions described above) can be applied for use in, for
example, the 866 MHz and 900 MHz RFID bands. Because the signal frequencies used for
RFID communication differ between different countries or jurisdictions though, and also
because the RF operating/signal propagation environment will differ greatly between different
locations (especially due to things like road humidity, road conductivity and other location- or
environment-specific conditions which can vary widely), slight variation/alteration of the
particular antenna geometry given above might be needed (for the purposes of antenna

optimisation, or for tuning for a particular operating frequency) depending on the situation.
[00134]     Figure 5 and Figure 6 illustrate the radiation pattern produced by the antenna in
Figure 3 in 3D, and in the Y-Z-plane, respectively, at a signal frequency of 920 MHz. Likewise,
Figure 7 and Figure 8 also illustrate the radiation pattern produced by the antenna in Figure 3 in
3D, and in the Y-Z-plane, respectively, at the same frequency. The reason the radiation pattern
depicted in Figure 7 and Figure 8 differs from that in Figure 5 and Figure 6 will be explained
below.
[00135]     Before explaining this difference though, it is important to note that in Figure 5 (and
the same also applies to Figure 7), the antenna and it's radiation pattern are not shown "to
scale" relative to one another.      Actually, what is meant by the "size" and "shape" of the
antenna's radiation pattern is discussed further below. However, if viewed in isolation (and not
in the context of this accompanying description), it might otherwise initially seem from Figure 5
(and also from Figure 7) that the antenna's radiation pattern only extends a short distance
beyond the boundary of the antenna's base plate 10. Hence it might be thought that the read
zone formed by the antenna's radiation pattern also only extends slightly beyond the boundary
of the antenna's base plate. This is certainly not the case. On the contrary, the size/extent of
the antenna's radiation pattern is such that the read zone it gives rise to is of the size described
above, for example with reference to Figure 1 and Figure 2.          Therefore, it should be clearly
understood that Figure 5 (and also Figure 7) depict the basic shape of the antenna's radiation
pattern, and also the orientation of the radiation pattern relative to the antenna and its various
components; however the actual size with which the radiation pattern is depicted relative to the
antenna (i.e. relative to the antenna's base plate 10 and top radiator 20) in these Figures is not
representative of the true size/extent of the radiation pattern relative to the size of the antenna.
[00136]     Figure 5 and Figure 6 both illustrate an "ideal" radiation pattern of the antenna in
Figure 3 (i.e. the radiation pattern of the antenna described above based on a number of
"idealised" assumptions). For instance, Figure 5 and Figure 6 illustrate the radiation pattern of
the antenna in Figure 3 assuming an infinite, ideal road condition and a perfectly reflective
ground plane. It can be seen from Figure 5 and Figure 6 that, with these assumptions, the
antenna has (or can be modelled to have) a bi-directional radiation pattern comprising two
opposing, quite round and smooth "lobes" 57 and 58, each with a peak gain of 5.3 dBi at 40'
elevation above the ground plane (i.e. peak gain of 5.3 dBi at     e = 400  for the lobe 58 and peak
gain of 5.3 dBi at p = 40* for the other lobe 57). This angle of elevation of the peak gain in each
of the lobes in the antenna's radiation pattern is thought to be precisely (or very close to) what is
desirable for vehicle identification purposes, because it means that the antenna is directing
energy upwards at an angle (or focusing energy mostly upwards within an angle range, given
that the 3 dB beamwidth within the respective lobes in Figure 5 and Figure 6 is approximately

e = 15*   to 650 and p = 150 to 650) that focuses energy in the general direction required to read
vehicle license plates most effectively.
 [00137]      In the "ideal" radiation pattern in Figure 5 and Figure 6, there is also a radiation null
 in the plane of Y = 0 (in other words in the X-Z plane). In the "ideal" radiation pattern in Figure 5
and Figure 6, there are also radiation nulls at 0' elevation above the ground plane (i.e. there are
 nulls along the ground plane, at      e = 0' and p = 00, or in other words there is a radiation null
corresponding to the plane of Z = 0 i.e. the X-Y plane ). However, the various radiation nulls
just described (i.e. their existence or the location thereof relative to the antenna, etc), it is
thought, may not be completely realistic (i.e. not completely representative of a real-life
scenario).
 [00138]      Therefore, what is thought to be a somewhat more realistic representation of the
antenna (i.e. based on somewhat more realistic operating conditions and/or less idealized
assumptions) has been examined/modelled, and representations of the radiation pattern
 produced by this are shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8. The examined/modelled antenna, whose
 radiation pattern is represented in Figure 7 and Figure 8, is mounted (or it is modelled as if
 mounted) on a 600 mm x600 mm "slab" of road. This is thought to be (or to represent) a much
 more realistic operating environment for the antenna. Compared to the idealised antenna model
 (and radiation pattern representations) in Figure 5 and Figure 6 above, the difference or change
 in the antenna's reflection coefficient in the more realistic antenna (and it's radiation pattern
 representations) in Figure 7 and Figure 8 is actually quite small and insignificant. However,
 moving from the idealised to the more realistic antenna, there are quite notable changes in the
shape and configuration of the antenna's radiation pattern. Note that, unlike the lobes 57 and 58
of the radiation pattern of the idealised antenna, which each have a quite smooth/clean and
 rounded shape, the respective lobes or "sides" 77 and 78 of the radiation pattern of the more
 realistic antenna both have a less even and more lumpy shape. The difference in the shape
and configuration of the radiation pattern, and of the sides or lobes thereof, is particularly
 noticeable and significant along the lines of 0* elevation angle (i.e. along the ground plane at or
around    E = 00  and p = 00).   Indeed, as shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8, in the more realistic
antenna, the radiation pattern does not have radiation nulls directly along the ground plane at
6 = 00 and P = 0' (as was the case in the radiation pattern of the idealised antenna). Rather,
along the ground plane (i.e. at 6 = 0' and p = 00) is actually one of the angles/directions of
elevation of quite high gain in the more realistic antenna radiation pattern (it is not the angle of
elevation of maximum gain, but it is still one of the angles of elevation of comparatively large
gain in the antenna's overall radiation pattern). In terms of radiation nulls, in the more realistic
antenna radiation pattern, the radiation nulls (or the portions of the radiation pattern that more
closely approximate nulls) are rotated approximately 15' downward in comparison, or in other
words to about 6 = -15' and p = -15'. The fact that 6 = 00 and p = 00 are angles of elevation of

quite high gain in the more realistic antenna radiation pattern, and that the radiation nulls (or the
portions of the radiation pattern that approximate nulls) are located at about       E = -15' and (p=
150, indicate that there is penetration of the electromagnetic waves/radiation produced by the
antenna into the road.        Perhaps more importantly, in the more realistic antenna radiation
pattern, the radiation pattern's 3dB beamwidth extends from about a = 0' (or just above 0*) and
(p = 0* (or just above 00) to about   E = 600  and p= 60'. Furthermore, the angle of elevation of
maximum gain in the realistic antenna radiation pattern is at about a = 450 and (P= 45'. These
last points are important because they means that, actually in a very similar way to the idealised
antenna radiation pattern described above with reference to Figure 5 and Figure 6, in the
antenna radiation pattern of the more realistic antenna depicted in Figure 7 and Figure 8, the
antenna is again directing energy upwards mostly within an angle range (the 3 dB beamwidth is
0' to 600 with max gain at 450) that focuses energy in the general direction required to read
vehicle license plates.
[00139]       The fact that the antenna's radiation pattern has a null in the plane of Y = 0 (and
given that the radiation pattern of the antennas on RFID tags on plates will point forward, not
downward) means that the RFID reader associated with the antenna may not be able to read a
RFID tag on a vehicle's license plate when/while the tag/license plate is located directly (or
almost directly) over the top of the reader, or if it to the side of the antenna in (or near) the plane
of Y = 0.    However, this is not thought to be a major problem because vehicles will rarely (if
ever) approach the antenna from directly to the side of the antenna (i.e. vehicles will rarely (if
ever) approach the antenna from a direction that would cause the RFID tag on the vehicle's
license plate two travel within (or close to) the plane of Y = 0 as it nears the antenna). Rather,
in the kinds of vehicle parking and gating applications in which this embodiment of the invention
is to be used, the antenna will be oriented with its long axis (i.e. the long sides of the ground
plane) parallel to the direction in which vehicles will travel as they approach or passed by/over
the antenna, and as mentioned above, it is also the case in these kinds of applications that the
vehicles will approach the antenna in a direction, and within a range of lateral locations relative
to the antenna, that is known/predictable with fairly high confidence. Accordingly, vehicles will
generally approach the antenna (and hence the RFID tags on vehicle number plates will
approach the antenna) "end-on" (i.e. approximately in or parallel to the plane of X = 0), meaning
that, even if the plate's RFID tag does become positioned (or passes) directly above the
antenna in or about the plane of Y = 0, nevertheless to get there the tag will pass (or it will have
passed) through one of the lobes of the antenna's radiation pattern, and it will have remained
there in for sufficient time to be read (due to the low speed of vehicle movement).
[00140]       Turning next to Figure 9 and Figure 10, these both illustrate schematically the
configuration of an RFID reader, wherein the antenna incorporated in the RFID reader and
which the RFID reader uses for RFID communication with RFID tags mounted on vehicle

license plates, is the particular embodiment of the antenna described above, including with
reference to Figure 3. Figure 9 and Figure 10 both show, in particular (in addition to the antenna
itself) the surrounding and supporting structure which the RFID reader has/provides for
surrounding and supporting the antenna.
[00141]     There are a number of slight differences between Figure 9 and Figure 10 in terms of
what these respective Figures show. However, this is not intended to indicate that these two
figures show different RFID readers, or different embodiments, from one another. Rather, the
two figures relate basically to the same embodiment of an RFID reader, but there are just a few
differences between the two Figures in terms of what they show. For instance, the slots 27 and
28 in the respective sides 22 and 24 of the antenna's top radiator are clearly shown in Figure 9,
but they are not visible in Figure 10. This is not intended to suggest that the antenna in the
RFID reader in Figure 10 does not have the slots 27 and 28. It definitely does; it's just that the
slots 27 and 28 are not depicted in Figure 10. Similarly, in Figure 10, a small box 73 is visible on
one side of the antenna's top radiator. This small box 73 represents an electronic component, or
a housing containing electronic components (possibly light-emitting electronic components), or it
might alternatively be considered to represent an additional antenna used for wireless (e.g.
Bluetooth) communication between the RFID reader and some other computer or mobile
device, etc. The component 73, whatever it is, may be positioned in the RFID reader at the
location shown in Figure 10.        There could also be a similar, or some other, electronic
component located at essentially the same location but on the other side of the antenna in the
RFID reader. The component 73 is not shown in Figure 9; and nor is any other electronic
component that might be mounted in the same location but on the other side of the antenna.
However, again, this is not intended to suggest that the antenna in the RFID reader in Figure 9
does not include this/these electronic component(s). It does; it's just that this is not depicted in
Figure 9.
[00142]     Another difference between Figure 9 and Figure 10 is that in Figure 9 the
dimensions of the antenna, and also of portions of the RFID reader's supporting structure, are
given in terms of (i.e. as a function of) signal wavelength (Ao), whereas in Figure 10 dimensions
are given in millimetres. Note that the particular dimensions given in Figure 10 are applicable to
an antenna/RFID reader that operates at a frequency of about 900-940 MHz.
[00143]     When the RFID reader shown in Figure 9 and Figure 10 is installed on the road (not
shown), the antenna's ground plane 10 becomes positioned on the upper surface of the road
such that the antenna's top radiator 20 is on the opposite side of the of the ground plane 10
from the road surface. In other words, the underside of the antenna's ground plane
component/portion 10 sits face down on the road surface, or possibly face down on one or more
thin intermediate layers, e.g. an adhesive layer for securing the RFID reader to the road and/or

                                                  - WU
maybe some other thin intermediate shielding or other layer(s), and the antenna's top radiator
20 sits on top of (and projects upward from) the upper side of the antenna's ground plane 10.
[00144]      Figure 9 and Figure 10 also show that the RFID reader incorporates a number of
rigid portions with sloped upper surfaces. In the particular embodiment in Figure 9 and Figure
10, included among the RFID reader's rigid portions are a sloped rigid portion on either side of
the RFID reader, each along a respective long side/edge of the antenna - one of these is
marked 80 and the other 90 - and in this particular embodiment both of the said rigid portions
80 and 90 might themselves be said to include three sections. For the rigid portion 80 on one
side of the antenna, the three sections thereof include a first section 82, a second section 84
and a middle section 86 which is interposed between the first section 82 and second section 84.
Likewise, for the rigid portion 90 on the other side of the antenna, the three sections thereof
include a first section 92, a second section 94 and a middle section 96 interposed in the first
section 92 and second section 94.
[00145]      Note that, for the rigid portions 80 and 90, whilst these are described as each
including three sections, this is not intended to imply that in each (or either) case the three
sections are necessarily independent or separate or separately formed from the other sections.
Of course, it is possible that there could be in some embodiments where they are. However, it is
thought that more often the respective sections of each rigid portion 80 and 90 will be integrally
formed with one another (i.e. together, as one part), and in fact the rigid portions 80 and 90 may
(and often will) themselves be integrally formed together with others of the RFID reader's rigid
portions - see below. Therefore, the reason why each of the rigid portions 80 and 90 is
described here as including three sections is simply because, due to the respective shapes of
the rigid portions 80 and 90 in this embodiment, this is simply the most logical and easiest way
to describe them. However, there may well be other embodiments where, for example, the
overall shape of a rigid portion equivalent to 80 or 90 (or both) is smooth and therefore lacking
any edges that notionally divide it into differently-shaped sections. Thus, the specific shape of
the sections 82, 84, 86 and 92, 94, 96 in Figure 9 and Figure 10, and even the fact that there
are separate sections, is not crucial (and similar functionality may be achieved using somewhat
different shape(s)). The reason the respective rigid portions 80 and 90 are described this way is,
basically, for convenience in describing their particular configuration, and the shape and
location of their various sections, in the particular embodiment depicted in Figure 9 and Figure
10.
[00146]      Each of the rigid portions 80 and 90, and each of the respective sections thereof,
has an outer perimeter edge. In all cases, this outer perimeter edge lies in the plane of the
antenna's ground plane 10. Thus, when the RFID reader is installed, the respective outer
perimeter edges of the rigid portions 80 and 90 (and their various sections) sit directly on the

surface of the road (just like the antenna's ground plane 10). In many embodiments, most (and
perhaps all) of the rigid portions in the RFID reader will be substantially solid.          In other
embodiments though, one or some of the rigid portions may be somewhat hollow (i.e. having a
space or opening inside, for example to house electronic components like the electronic
component 73, or the like). However, in all cases, all of the RFID reader's rigid portions will have
an unbroken upper surface. (Therefore, even if there are some rigid portions of the RFID reader
that have an opening or hollow inside, the said hollow or opening inside that/those rigid
portion(s) will be covered up by the rigid portion(s) unbroken upper surface.)
[00147]      For all of the rigid portions, the upper surface slopes upward from the outer
perimeter edge toward the antenna's top radiator 20. More specifically, for the respective middle
sections 86 and 96 on either side of the antenna, the outer perimeter edge of each of these lies
on the road parallel to the outer edge of the antenna. Therefore, moving from the outside in, the
upper surface of each of the respective middle sections 86 and 96 begins at its outer perimeter
edge (which lies on the road) and slopes upward such that the inner side thereof meets the
antenna's top radiator at the top outer edge of radiator 20. For the respective first sections 82
and 92, and second sections 84 and 94, the outer perimeter edges of these all lie (in the plane
of the ground plane 10) at an angle to the side edge of the antenna. More specifically, the outer
perimeter edges of the first and second sections all lie directly on the surface of the road, but
each of these outer perimeter edges extends from (at one end) one of the corners of the
antenna's ground plane 10 to connect (at the other end thereof) with one of the ends of the
outer perimeter edge of the relevant middle section 86 or 96. Accordingly, the "planform" or
"footprint" shape of each respective first section 82 and 92 and second section 84 and 94 is a
right angled triangular, with the outer perimeter edge of each said triangle forming the
hypotenuse. In all four of these first and second sections, the upper surface thereof (again)
slopes upward from the outer perimeter edge (the hypotenuse of the triangular footprint)
towards the antenna's top radiator 20. And in fact, on all of the first and second sections, the
upper surface also forms a right angled triangle, again with the outer perimeter edge (which is
on the ground/road) forming the hypotenuse, but with the right angled corner this time (for each
of them) meeting at a respective top corner of the antenna's top radiator 20. Thus, for both of
the rigid portions 80 and 90, the upper surfaces of the respective three sections that make up
each of these all slope upward from ground/road level and they all meet at their respective
highest points at the level of (and in contact with) the top of the antenna's top radiator 20. Also
in this, the upper surfaces of all of the sections on both of the rigid portions 80 and 90 are
planar. Therefore, they do not curve or change slope (i.e. the angle of inclination remains fixed)
as they extend up from ground level to meet at the level of the antenna's top radiator.
[00148]      As has been explained, the RFID reader in Figure 9 and Figure 10 has as a rigid
portion 80 on one side of the antenna and also a rigid portion 90 on the opposite side. The rigid

 portion 90 is essentially a mirror image of the rigid portion 80, unless perhaps one contains
 hollows or openings inside it which the other does not, or which are different to the other, etc.
 However, these rigid portions 80 and 90 are not the only rigid portions in this embodiment of the
 RFID reader. In addition to these, the RFID reader also incorporates two further rigid portions,
 namely rigid portions 102 and 104 - see the dashed lines in Figure 10. (Note that the dashed
 lines in Figure 10 are not edges or markings that are actually visible on the RFID reader in
 reality. Rather the dashed lines are included on Figure 10 simply to assist in visualising the
shape and location of the rigid portions 102 and 104. As the dashed lines in Figure 10 help to
 illustrate, the outer perimeter edge of the rigid portion 102 runs along (i.e. it meets or sits
directly on top of) the end-edge of the antenna's ground plane 10 at one end of the ground
 plane, and it extends across the full width of the ground plane 10. Likewise, the outer perimeter
edge of the rigid portion 104 runs along (i.e. it meets or sits directly on top of) the end-edge of
the antenna's ground plane 10 at the other end of the ground plane, and it too extends across
the full width of the ground plane 10. And, like the other rigid portions 80 and 90, the rigid
 portions 102 and 104 are both solid, or perhaps one or both of them may have a hollow or
opening inside, but nevertheless both have an unbroken upper surface, and the upper surfaces
of the respective rigid portions 102 and 104 slope from their respective outer edges (both on or
just above a respective end-edge of the ground plane 10) inward and upward such that the
 inner sides/edges of the respective rigid portions 102 and 104 meet the long side edges at the
top of the antenna's top radiator 20. In other words, the inner side/edge of the rigid portion 102
 meets the top radiator at the junction between the sidewall 22 and the joining portion 26 of the
top radiator 20. Similarly, the inner side/edge of the rigid portion 104 meets top radiator at the
junction between the sidewall 24 and the joining portion 26 of the top radiator 20.
 [00149]       Thus, all portions/areas of the antenna's ground plane 10 which are located forward
and aft of the top radiator 20 in the antenna's longitudinal/lengthwise direction are beneath and
therefore covered by the rigid portions 102 and 104. These portions or areas of the ground
 plane 10 are therefore be protected (e.g. from physical damage or exposure to the elements,
etc) by the rigid portion 102 and 104. Also, the rigid portions 80 and 90 also protect the sides of
the antenna.       Furthermore, as mentioned above, in many embodiments, the rigid portions 80
and 90 and also the rigid portions 102 and 104 may be intimately formed together as one piece.
Thus, the antenna's ground plane 10, the antenna's top radiator 20, and in the other
components of the antenna, plus also any electronic components that are included in or form
 part of the RFID reader, are (in this embodiment anyway) effectively embedded beneath and
within the integral combined rigid portions, which survey protective and structurally supported
function, as discussed below.
 [00150]       It was mentioned in passing above that the rigid portions 102 and 104 effectively
cover the portions of the ground plane 10 that are forward and aft of the top radiator 20, thereby

                                                    - -1
protecting these portions of the ground plane 10 from e.g. physical damage, damage through
exposure to the elements, except. It was also mentioned in passing that the rigid portions 80
and 90 provide similar protection for the antenna from the sides. In addition to this though, in
this particular embodiment, rigid portions of the RFID reader are actually also responsible for
providing the physical supporting structure for the RFID reader's antenna, as well as any other
electronic components and the like that may be contained in or form part of the RFID reader.
The way in which the rigid portions provide the RFID reader's physical structure can be
understood quite simply. Consider the components of the antenna. As mentioned elsewhere,
the components of the antenna, especially the top radiator 20, will often be made from thin
metal, perhaps only a few millimetres or possibly even less than a millimetre in thickness. The
top radiator 20 is also elevated relative to (i.e. it is located vertically above) the antenna's
ground plane 10 when the reader is installed on the road. Naturally, thin metal such as this,
especially if elevated/upstanding and unsupported in "free space", would be very flexibly and
flimsy. It should also be recognised that, by virtue of its location on a road surface, the RFID
reader may often be directly run over by vehicles. Clearly therefore, it is essential for the RFID
reader (including its antenna structure) to be able to withstand such forces and impacts
repeatedly and over a long period of time without damage or affect on the reader's/antenna's
functioning or performance.      It is therefore also clear there needs to be something to prevent
any otherwise thin/flimsy pieces of metal that make up or are comprised in the RFID reader or
its antenna (in particular the radiating component) from simply being crushed/flattened and
completely destroyed by such vehicle impacts. It is this function that the rigid portions provide.
In other words, as mentioned above, the components of the antenna are effectively embedded
beneath and within the integrally combined rigid portions, and as a result, not only are the
components of the antenna protected from damage when vehicles drive over the RFID reader
by the rigid portions which are themselves able to withstand this (meaning that the antenna
components which are safely housed within are also protected from damage), but the
components of the antenna are also themselves supported within the rigid portions (i.e. held in
position and prevented from deforming or separating or warping or the like).
[00151]      The various slopes or angles of inclination of each rigid portion (and of the various
different sections thereof) should be quite gentle (i.e. not steep), and it will now be recognised
that the reason why this important is to allow vehicle wheels/tires to easily roll over the RFID
reader (i.e. directly over the top of the whole RFID reader, or over a portion of the RFID reader),
without causing a large or dangerous pump or jolt to the vehicle. However, ensuring that the
angles of inclination of the respective rigid portions (and the various sections thereof) are gentle
may also help to at least a somewhat reduce the risk or likelihood of a person tripping or
stumbling or injuring themselves should they accidentally kick or trip on the RFID reader. For
this purpose, it is thought that the slope of the upper surface on any rigid portion of the RFID
reader should preferably be no steeper than 45*.

[00152]      As mentioned above, it is thought to be important that the maximum thickness of the
RFID reader in a direction perpendicular to the road (i.e. the maximum height of the RFID
reader) should be no more than about 25mm. This maximum thickness (about 25 mm) is
considered to be acceptable, and             it is also thought to be       also compliant from     a
standards/regulatory point of view, as this is the same height as (or perhaps it may even be
slightly less than) the height of many conventional "cat eyes" and other retroreflective devices
commonly used on public roads. The embodiment of the RFID reader shown in Figure 10, for
example, achieves this. Indeed the height of that RFID reader at its highest point (which is in the
centre at the top of the top radiator 20) is only 20 mm.
[00153]      The material from the rigid portions of the RFID reader in Figure 9 and Figure 10 are
made (and it will be recalled that all of the rigid portions in this RFID reader may, in fact, be
integrated formed together) should be physically strong/tough and durable (i.e. so as to be able
to withstand repeated impact loading e.g. when vehicles drive over the top, and so as to thereby
provide the structural support for parts of the antenna inside, as well as able to withstand
prolonged exposure to the sun and other elements, significant temperature fluctuations, etc).
The material from the rigid portions are made should also have dielectric properties which do
not     substantially    interfere     with     the   impedance       matching    and/or    radiation
performance/characteristics of the antenna, or it may be that the dielectric properties of the
material can be used (e.g. by altering the shape of one or more of the rigid portions made from
this material) to controllably alter (i.e. tune) the antenna's radiation pattern and/or its radiation
performance/characteristics).      The material from the rigid portions are formed may also be
optically transparent, or at least optically translucent. Suitable material from which the rigid
portions of the RFID         reader may be made include various types of polycarbonate,
polyethersulfane, or like materials. Examples of specific materials that may be suitable include
the materials produced by the Rbchling group of companies and sold under the names/trade
marks SUSTARIN C, SUSTANAT PC and SUSTASON PES. Reasons why it may be beneficial
or advantageous for the rigid portions to be made from an optically transparent (or optically
translucent) material include: so as to allow for light to be emitted from light emitting
components (see below), and to allow for solar panels, which may be mounted on or
incorporated into the structure of the RFID reader (and which may be partially or wholly covered
or inside the rigid portion material), to receive light/solar radiation from which energy is thereby
generated.
[00154]      The RFID reader may include one or more light emitting components e.g. such as
LEDs, lights or the like (illustrated). Such light emitting components may be located or housed in
one or both of the open ends of the top radiator 20 - such lights may be most visible when the
RFID reader is observed (when the lights are illuminated) from the side. Alternatively, or in
addition, the RFID reader could includes one or more light-emitting components located within

the material of one or both of the rigid portions 80 and 90, which would thereby replace
that/those light emitting components outside of the antenna, possibly making them more visible
from in front and behind the antenna in the lengthwise/longitudinal direction as well as from the
side of the RFID reader. It is thought that positioning light emitting components either within the
open ends of the cavity within the top radiator 20, or within the rigid portions 80/90 to the sides
of the antenna, should not interfere with the antenna's radiative properties (recall that the
 majority of the energy radiated by the antenna "comes out" of the slots 27 and 28 in the
 respective sides of the antenna's top radiator, and therefore extend predominantly in the
antenna's lengthwise/longitudinal direction, as depicted and described with reference to Figure
5 and Figure 7).
 [00155]      At least some, and possibly most, of the RFID reader's electronics and circuitry may
 be located within the region of space inside the top radiator 20 (i.e. beneath the radiator's
joining portion 26 and between its sidewalls 22 and 24). Note that, at least usually, whilst the
 regions immediately above the ground plane 10 and also immediately to the sides of the
antenna will be filled with the material that forms the rigid portions 80, 90, 102, 104 (see above),
 nevertheless the region of space inside the top radiator may remain unfilled by this material.
 [00156]      It was mentioned above that the antenna's top radiator 20, and possibly also the
ground portion 10, is made from a material (typically metal) having a suitably high electrical
conductivity. In addition to this, the material from which at least the top radiator 20 (and
 preferably also the ground plane 10) is made should also be thermally conductive, so that at
 least the top radiator 20 can help (as a secondary function) to dissipate heat generated by any
 RFID reader electronics and circuitry located within the cavity inside the top radiator 20.
 [00157]      The RFID reader may be powered in any suitable way.              Options include that the
 RFID reader is powered by induction loop or by power-supply wires/cables connected to the
 RFID reader (connected once it has been installed). Alternatively, or in addition thereto, the
 RFID reader may incorporates one or more solar (photovoltaic) cells. It is possible that, in some
embedment's, the solar cells may be operable to produce and supply to the RFID reader
enough electrical energy to partly or even fully power the RFID reader (or certain parts or
components of the rear, or certain of its functionalities). In the embodiment depicted in Figure
 10, solar cells could be located e.g. on top of the joining portion 26 of the top radiator 20. In this
 location, the solar cells should not significantly interfere with the antenna's radiative properties,
and this may also be a convenient location given the ease with which cables or connectors
could then be made to carry electricity generated using the PV cells to the RFID reader's
 internal circuitry (which is located, at least mostly, within the cavity inside the top radiator 20 and
therefore immediately beneath the PV cells).
 [00158]      In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its

derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[00159]      Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention.               Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00160]      In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of
its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                  J /
CLAIMS
1.   An antenna for a communication device, the antenna having a structure comprising:
      -  a ground portion, and
      -  a radiating component,
             o    the radiating component having a first side, and a second side that is spaced
                  apart from the first side, and
                               the first side has a ground edge portion which is in contact with
                       the ground portion, and the first side extends, from its ground edge
                       portion, away from a surface on one side of the ground portion;
                               the second side also has a ground edge portion which is in
                       contact with the ground portion, and the second side also extends, from
                       its ground edge portion, away from a surface on said one side of the
                       ground portion; and
             o    the radiating component also has a joining portion which is spaced apart from
                  the ground portion on said one side of the ground portion, and the joining
                  portion extends between the first side and the second side, such that there is
                  a region of space defined between the first side and the second side and
                  between the joining portion and the ground portion; and
             o    at least one of the first side and the second side has a slot therein.
2.   The antenna as claimed in claim 1, wherein the region of space defined between the first
     side and the second side of the radiating component and between the joining portion of
     the radiating component and the ground portion is open at either end, and/or wherein
     the region of space defined between the first side and the second side of the radiating
     component and between the joining portion of the radiating component and the ground
     portion is shaped substantially as a rectangular prism or box shape.
3.   The antenna as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein
      -  the ground portion is substantially planar,
      -  the first side and the second side of the radiating component are both substantially
         planar and rectangular and both are oriented with their planes substantially
         perpendicular to the plane of the ground portion,
      -  on both the first side and second side of the radiating component:
             o    the ground edge portion which is in contact with the ground portion forms one
                  of the longer edges of the side's rectangular shape;
             o    there is a distal edge portion, opposite the ground edge portion, which forms
                  the other of the longer edges of the side's rectangular shape, and
      -  the joining portion of the radiating component is substantially unbroken, planar and

       rectangular and it extends between the distal edge portions of the first side and the
       second side along the full length of the radiating component.
4. The antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first side and
   the second side of the radiating component both have an open slot therein, and/or
   wherein the slot in a side of the radiating component extends approximately parallel to
   the side's ground edge portion, and/or wherein the slot in a side of the radiating
   component extends for almost the full length of the side's ground edge portion.
5. The antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the antenna is fed
   from the ground portion with a feed pin that extends between and connects the ground
   portion and the underside of the radiating component's joining portion and, optionally,
   the feed pin is oriented perpendicularly to the ground portion and connects the ground
   portion to the underside of the joining portion half way along the length of the joining
   portion and half way between the first side and the second side of the radiating
   component.
6. The antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein ground portion is
   substantially planar, such that it is a ground plane, and the ground plane is rectangular
   with a length dimension and a width dimension, the length dimension being greater than
   the width dimension, and the radiating component has a length which extends
   substantially across the width of the ground plane.
7. The antenna as claimed in claim 6, when dependent on at least claim 3, wherein the
   length of the ground plane is about A0 , where Ao is the free space wavelength of the
   center frequency of the antenna's operating signal, the width of the ground plane is
   about 0.55Ao or greater, and optionally
   -   the length of the ground plane can also be reduced to less than Ao through or as part
       of antenna tuning, and/or
   -   the length of the slot in each of the first side and the second side is about 0.5Ao,
       and/or
   -   the joining portion of the radiating component is spaced apart from the ground plane
       by about 0.06Ao, and/or
   -   the first side and the second side of the radiating component are spaced apart by
       about 0.2Ao.
8. The antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein both the antenna's
   ground portion and the radiating component are made from an electrically conductive

    material, and optionally:
    -    the antenna's ground portion and radiating component are both made from a metal
         or metal-based material, and/or
    -    the antenna's radiating component is made from thin, electrically conductive wires
         which are arranged such that, together, they define the shape of the antenna's
         radiating component, in which case, further optionally, open spaces remain between
         the wires such that the antenna's radiating component (at least) is substantially
         optically transparent.
9.  The antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the radiation pattern
    of the antenna is substantially bi-directional in the azimuth plane (Z=0), and the radiation
    pattern shape has, for each of the two directions, one or more round or bulbous "lobe"
    shaped portions each of which generally points away from the radiating component in a
    lengthwise direction of the antenna, and wherein at least the majority of each "lobe"
    shape is located at an angle of between 0' and 900 elevation above the ground portion,
    and optionally, within a plane that is perpendicular to the antenna's ground portion but
    aligned with the lengthwise centerline axis of the ground plane, the 3dB beam width of
    the antenna's radiation pattern is contained within the angle range of between about 30'
    and about 65' elevation above the ground portion .
10. An RFID reader capable of installation on a road or ground or floor surface, wherein an
    antenna incorporated in the RFID reader and which is used by the RFID reader for RFID
    communication is an antenna as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
11. The RFID reader as claimed in claim 10 further incorporating one or more rigid portions
    with (a) sloped upper surface(s), wherein:
    -    the slope of the upper surface of each rigid portion begins at the level of the
         antenna's ground portion;
    -    each    rigid portion slopes generally      upward toward    the antenna's radiating
         component, and
    -    the sloping upper surface of each rigid portion meets the antenna's radiating
         component at about the level of the joining portion of the antenna's radiating
         component,
    and optionally:
             o    there is a rigid portion beginning at each of the end edges of the antenna's
                  ground portion, and the said rigid portions slope up from the respective end
                  edges to meet the antenna's radiating component at the level of the radiating

                                                UU
                component's joining portion, such that portions or areas of the antenna's
                ground portion, on either side of the antenna's radiating component , which
                are located between the antenna's radiating component and the respective
                end edges of the antenna's ground portion are beneath the rigid portions
                and/or
             o  there is at least one rigid portion beginning out beyond the side edges of the
                antenna's ground portion on both sides of the ground portion, and the said
                rigid portions slope up from there to meet the antenna's radiating component
                at the level of the radiating component's joining portion , and/or
             o  the slope of the upper surface on any rigid portion of the RFID reader is no
                steeper than 450.
12. The RFID reader as claimed in claim 10 or 11 wherein, if or when the RFID reader is
    installed on the road or ground or floor surface, the maximum thickness of the RFID
    reader in a direction perpendicular to the road or ground or floor surface is no more than
    about 25mm.
13. The RFID reader as claimed in claim 10, 11 or 12, wherein the RFID reader has more
    than one rigid portion, and:
    -   at least one said rigid portion is initially formed separately from at least one other
        said rigid portion and these are subsequently brought or assembled together along
        with any other rigid portion(s), the antenna, and any other parts or components,
        when the RFID reader is formed/assembled, and/or
    -   the material from which at least one of the rigid portions is formed is physically
        strong/tough and durable, and/or the material has dielectric properties which do not
        substantially    interfere    with    the   impedance    matching     and/or   radiation
        performance/characteristics of the antenna or the dielectric properties of the material
        can be used to controllably alter the antenna's radiation pattern and/or its radiation
        performance/characteristics, and/or
    -   the material from which at least one of the rigid portions is formed is optically
        transparent, or at least optically translucent, in which case, optionally, the region of
        space defined between the first side and the second side of the antenna's radiating
        component and between the joining portion of the antenna's radiating component
        and the antenna's ground portion is open at either end and the RFID reader includes
        one or more light emitting components located or housed in one or both of the said
        ends or elsewhere within the material of one or more of the rigid portions, and/or

       the material from which at least one of the rigid portions is formed is a type of
       polycarbonate, Polyethersulfane, or like material.
14. The RFID reader as claimed in any one of claims 10-13, wherein at least some of the
    RFID reader's electronics and circuitry are located within the region of space defined
    between the first side and the second side of the antenna's radiating component and
    between the joining portion of the antenna's radiating component and the antenna's
    ground portion.
15. The RFID reader as claimed in any one of claims 10-14, wherein the RFID reader:
    -  is capable not only of RFID communication using the antenna (the main antenna),
       but also of separate wireless communication with one or more other electronic
       devices, in which case the RFID reader optionally incorporates a secondary antenna,
       and the secondary antenna facilitates said separate wireless communication with
       other electronic devices, and/or
    -  incorporates one or more solar cells, which is/are operable to produce and supply to
       the RFID reader enough electrical energy to partly or fully power the RFID reader, in
       which case the one or more solar cells are optionally located on top of the joining
        portion of the radiating component of the RFID reader's (main) antenna, or further
       optionally the radiating component of the RFID reader's (main) antenna is made from
       thin, electrically conductive wires which are arranged such that, together, they define
       the shape of the antenna's radiating component and open spaces remain between
       the wires such that the antenna's radiating component (at least) is substantially
       optically transparent and the solar cells are mounted at the level of, or directly on, or
       they form, the antenna's ground portion .

                                                                                     1/8
                PS1           R1,2
                                                 PS2
                                                                             R2,3
                                                                                                                  R3,4
                                                                                              PS3
                                                                                                                                PS4
Figure 1: Schematic illustration of the required read zone for each of three (identical) on-road RFID reader antennas to be used for vehicle detection and
                                   identification in one particular (albeit non-limiting) roadside parallel parking application
3464331v1

                                                                                     2/8                                                         &-
 %('     %)' %*'                                                                                                          
    
  (      )    *                                 
                                                                                                                                 
 %('&     %)'& %*'&                                 
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                 
%((' %))' %**'                                                                                                          
    
  ((     ))   **                                
                                                                                                                                 
%(('& %))'& %**'&                                   
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                        
     &            +   !   "        
                                          #      # $  , # $,##



                                                                                 3/8
                                                                                                                   30
                                       26
                                22                          -20-
                                   27
                            23
                                                                                                                24
                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                 28
                                                                                                    29
    Figure 3: Schematic illustration of the configuration and relative dimensions of the proposed antenna, with dimensions given as a function of signal
                                                                          wavelength
3464331v1

                                                                                 4/8
                                                                                                                                     30
                                       -20-
               27
                                                                                                                                                   28
                       -10-
                    Figure 4: Graphical representation of the complex magnetic fields (H-fields) in the slots of the proposed antenna
 (Note: an antenna's magnetic fields (H-fields) are not to be confused with its electric fields (E-fields) - this is particularly significant in the antenna's "near
                                              field" where the interaction between the two is highly complex)
3464331v1

                                                 5/8
                                                                   -58-
                     -57-
                                               -20-
                 -10-                                                                          
                                 27                   28
      Figure 5: 3-D representation of the theoretical (ideal) radiation pattern shape for the proposed
                                                  antenna
    (Note: the antenna and its radiation pattern above are not shown to scale relative to one another)
                                                90                   58
                                                        90
                          57
                                                                                                
Z=0 and
                                                                                                       Z=0 and
0                                                                                                  0
      Figure 6: 2-D representation of the theoretical (ideal) radiation pattern shape for the proposed
                                antenna in the antenna's central Y-Z plane
   3464331v1

                                              6/8
                                                   -78-
                                    -77-
Figure 7: 3-D representation of an experimentally measured radiation pattern shape for a prototype
                                      of the proposed antenna
 (Note: the antenna and its radiation pattern above are not shown to scale relative to one another)
                                                  90
                          77                 90                    78
                                                                                         
Figure 8: 2-D representation of the experimentally measured radiation pattern for a prototype of the
                       proposed antenna in the antenna's central Y-Z plane
3464331v1

                                                                              7/8
                                                                             84
                                             86
                                                                 -80-
                      22
    82           27
                                                                 -20-
                                   -10-                                                                       -90-
                                                                                                                      94
                                                                                                               24
                                                                                                         28
                                                                               92                   96
   Figure 9: Schematic configuration of the RFID reader's proposed surrounding and supporting structure for the antenna, with dimensions given as a
                                                             function of signal wavelength
3464331v1

                                                                            8/8
                                                73
                                                                                                      104
                                  -80-
                                                                   -20-
                                                                                          -90-
            102
    Figure 10: Schematic configuration of the RFID reader's proposed surrounding and supporting structure for the antenna, with dimensions given in
                                    millimetres (assuming an antenna operating frequency of about 900-1000 MHz)
3464331v1

