ABSTRACT
Systems and apparatuses for treating a tissue site with reduced pressure arc described. The
system includes a manifold configured to be placed adjacent the tissue site, and a sealing
member configured to be placed over the tissue site and the manifold. The system also
includes a reduced-pressure source fluidly coupled to the manifold through the sealing
member. The system further includes a pouch having an upstream layer having a first
thickness, a downstream layer having a second thickness, and an absorbent member
enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The second thickness is
greater than the first thickness. The upstream layer may have a hydrophilic side adjacent the
absorbent member, and the downstream layer may have a hydrophobic side adjacent the
absorbent member.
FIG. 1

       112
(NN
     CN
    CN
     CI4I
           CCD
    CNN

                                               -1
DRESSING WITH ASYMMETRIC ABSORBENT CORE FOR NEGATIVE PRESSURE
                                      WOUND THERAPY
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014207832
which, claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/753,368
filed January 16, 2013, entitled "Dressing with Asymmetric Absorbent Core for Negative
Pressure Wound Therapy" the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     The present disclosure relates generally to medical treatment systems for treating
tissue sites and processing fluids. More particularly, but not by way of limitation, the present
disclosure relates to a dressing having an asymmetric absorbent core for reduced-pressure
wound therapy.
BACKGROUND
[0003]     Clinical studies and practice have shown that reducing pressure in proximity to a
tissue site can augment and accelerate growth of new tissue at the tissue site. The
applications of this phenomenon are numerous, but is has proven particularly advantageous
for treating wounds. Regardless of the etiology of a wound, whether trauma, surgery, or
another cause, proper care of the wound is important to the outcome. Treatment of wounds
with reduced pressure may be commonly referred to as "reduced-pressure wound therapy," but
is also known by other names, including "negative-pressure therapy," "negative pressure
wound therapy," and "vacuum therapy," for example. Reduced-pressure therapy may provide a
number of benefits, including migration of epithelial and subcutaneous tissues, improved blood
flow, and micro-deformation of tissue at a wound site. Together, these benefits can increase
development of granulation tissue and reduce healing times.
[0004]     While the clinical benefits of reduced-pressure therapy are widely known, the cost
and complexity of reduced-pressure therapy can be a limiting factor in its application, and the
development and operation of reduced-pressure systems, components, and processes
continues to present significant challenges to manufacturers, healthcare providers, and
patients. In particular, reduced-pressure dressings that include an absorbent member
positioned proximate a tissue site may experience absorbent material loss or inefficient
absorption that negatively impacts the ability of a reduced-pressure system to provide

                                               -2
reduced-pressure therapy to a tissue site.
SUMMARY
[0005]     According to an illustrative embodiment, a system for collecting fluid from a tissue
site is described. The system may include a manifold adapted to be placed adjacent the tissue
site, a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and a reduced-pressure
source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the sealing member. The system
further may include a pouch. The pouch may include an upstream layer having a first
thickness, a hydrophilic side, and a hydrophobic side, and a downstream layer having a
second thickness, a hydrophilic side, and a hydrophobic side. The apparatus also may include
an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The
hydrophilic side of the upstream layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent member so
that the hydrophobic side of the upstream layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus.
The hydrophobic side of the downstream layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent
member so that the hydrophilic side of the downstream layer forms another portion of the
exterior of the apparatus. The second thickness may be greater than the first thickness.
[0006]     According to another illustrative embodiment, a system for treating a tissue site with
reduced pressure is described. The system may include a manifold adapted to be placed
adjacent the tissue site, a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and the
manifold to provide a substantially air-tight seal at the tissue site, and a reduced-pressure
source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the sealing member. The system
further may include a pouch. The pouch may include an upstream layer having a hydrophilic
side and a hydrophobic side, a downstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic
side, and an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream
layer. The hydrophilic side of the upstream layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent
member, and the hydrophobic side of the downstream layer may be positioned adjacent the
absorbent member. The pouch may be adapted to be positioned between the manifold and the
sealing member.
[0007]     According to yet another illustrative embodiment, an apparatus for collecting fluid
from a tissue site is described. The apparatus may include an upstream layer having a
hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, and a downstream layer having a hydrophilic side and
a hydrophobic side. The apparatus also may include an absorbent member enclosed between
the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The hydrophilic side of the upstream layer may
be positioned adjacent the absorbent member so that the hydrophobic side of the upstream

                                                  -3
layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus. The hydrophobic side of the downstream
layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent member so that the hydrophilic side of the
downstream layer forms another portion of the exterior of the apparatus.
[0008]      According to still another illustrative embodiment, a system for treating a tissue site
with reduced pressure is described. The system may include a manifold adapted to be placed
adjacent the tissue site, a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and the
manifold to provide a substantially air-tight seal at the tissue site, and a reduced-pressure
source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the sealing member. The system
further may include a pouch. The pouch may have an upstream layer having a first thickness, a
downstream layer having a second thickness, and an absorbent member enclosed between
the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The second thickness may be greater than the
first thickness, and the pouch may be adapted to be positioned between the manifold and the
sealing member.
[0009]      According to still another illustrative embodiment, an apparatus for collecting fluid
from a tissue site is described. The apparatus may include a pouch. The pouch may have an
upstream layer having a first thickness, a downstream layer having a second thickness, and an
absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The
second thickness may be greater than the first thickness, and the pouch may be adapted to be
positioned between the manifold and the sealing member.
[0010]      According to yet another illustrative embodiment, a method for treating a tissue site
is described. The method positions a manifold adjacent the tissue site and provides a pouch.
The pouch may include an upstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, a
downstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, and an absorbent
member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream layer. The hydrophilic side
of the upstream layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent member so that the
hydrophobic side of the upstream layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus. The
hydrophobic side of the downstream layer may be positioned adjacent the absorbent member
so that the hydrophilic side of the downstream layer forms another portion of the exterior of the
apparatus. The method may position the pouch adjacent the manifold and the tissue site so
that the upstream layer is adjacent the manifold. The pouch may include an upstream layer
having a first thickness, a downstream layer having a second thickness greater than the first
thickness, and an absorbent member having absorbent material disposed between the
upstream layer and the downstream layer so that the upstream layer and the downstream

                                                -4
layer enclose the absorbent member. The method may position a sealing member over the
manifold and the pouch to provide a substantially air-tight seal and fluidly couples a reduced
pressure source to the manifold to provide reduced pressure to the tissue site. The method
may distribute reduced pressure to the manifold through the pouch and distributes fluid from
the tissue site to an absorbent member in the pouch for storage therein.
[0011]     According to another illustrative embodiment, a method for manufacturing a fluid
storage canister is described. The method provides a first layer having a first thickness, a
hydrophilic side, and a hydrophobic side. The method positions an absorbent member adjacent
the hydrophilic side of the first layer. The method also provides a second layer have a second
thickness greater than the first thickness, a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side. The
method positions the hydrophilic side of the second layer adjacent the absorbent member. The
method couples peripheral portions of the first layer and the second layer to each other to
enclose the absorbent member.
[0012]     Other aspects, features, and advantages of the illustrative embodiments will become
apparent with reference to the drawings and detailed description that follow.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]     FIGURE 1 is sectional view illustrating a reduced-pressure therapy system in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment;
[0014]     FIGURE 2 is a sectional view illustrating a pouch of the reduced-pressure therapy
system of FIGURE 1; and
[0015]     FIGURE 3 is an exploded sectional view of the pouch of FIGURE 2.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
[0016]     New and useful systems, methods, and apparatuses for fluid storage in a reduced
pressure therapy environment are set forth in the appended claims. Objectives, advantages,
and a preferred mode of making and using the systems, methods, and apparatuses may be
understood best by reference to the following detailed description in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings. The description provides information that enables a person skilled in
the art to make and use the claimed subject matter, but may omit certain details already well
known in the art. Moreover, descriptions of various alternatives using terms such as "or" do not

                                                 -5
necessarily require mutual exclusivity unless clearly required by the context. The claimed
subject matter may also encompass alternative exemplary embodiments, variations, and
equivalents not specifically described in detail. The following detailed description should
therefore be taken as illustrative and not limiting.
[0017]     The exemplary embodiments may also be described herein in the context of
reduced-pressure therapy applications, but many of the features and advantages are readily
applicable to other environments and industries. Spatial relationships between various
elements or to the spatial orientation of various elements may be described as depicted in the
attached drawings. In general, such relationships or orientations assume a frame of reference
consistent with or relative to a patient in a position to receive reduced-pressure therapy.
However, as should be recognized by those skilled in the art, this frame of reference is merely
a descriptive expedient rather than a strict prescription.
[0018]     FIGURE 1 is a sectional view of an exemplary embodiment illustrating a therapy
system 100 for supplying reduced pressure to a tissue site 106. The therapy system 100 may
include a dressing 102 in fluid communication with the tissue site 106, a reduced-pressure
source 104 for providing reduced pressure to a tube 120 that may be fluidly coupled to the
reduced-pressure source 104, and a connector 122 that may fluidly couple the tube 120 to the
dressing 102.
[0019]     The term "tissue site" in this context broadly refers to a wound or defect located on or
within tissue, including but not limited to, bone tissue, adipose tissue, muscle tissue, neural
tissue, dermal tissue, vascular tissue, connective tissue, cartilage, tendons, or ligaments. A
tissue site may include chronic, acute, traumatic, subacute, and dehisced wounds, partial
thickness burns, ulcers (such as diabetic, pressure, or venous insufficiency ulcers), flaps, and
grafts, for example. The term "tissue site" may also refer to areas of any tissue that are not
necessarily wounded or defective, but are instead areas in which it may be desirable to add or
promote the growth of additional tissue. For example, reduced pressure may be used in certain
tissue areas to grow additional tissue that may be harvested and transplanted to another tissue
location.
[0020]     A reduced-pressure source, such as the reduced-pressure source 104, may be a
reservoir of air at a reduced pressure, or may be a manually or electrically-powered device that
can reduce the pressure in a sealed volume, such as a vacuum pump, a suction pump, a wall
suction port available at many healthcare facilities, or a micro-pump, for example. The

                                                -6
reduced-pressure source may be housed within or used in conjunction with other components,
such as sensors, processing units, alarm indicators, memory, databases, software, display
devices, or user interfaces that further facilitate reduced-pressure therapy. While the amount
and nature of reduced pressure applied to a tissue site may vary according to therapeutic
requirements, the pressure typically ranges between -5 mm Hg (-667 Pa) and -500 mm Hg (
66.7 kPa). Common therapeutic ranges are between -75 mm Hg (-9.9 kPa) and -300 mm Hg (
39.9 kPa).
[0021]      The fluid mechanics of using a reduced-pressure source to reduce pressure in
another component or location, such as within a sealed therapeutic environment, can be
mathematically complex. However, the basic principles of fluid mechanics applicable to
reduced-pressure therapy are generally well-known to those skilled in the art, and the process
of reducing pressure may be described illustratively herein as "delivering," "distributing," or
"generating" reduced pressure, for example.
[0022]      In general, exudates and other fluids flow toward lower pressure along a fluid path.
This orientation may be generally presumed for purposes of describing various features and
components of reduced-pressure therapy systems herein. Thus, the term "downstream"
typically implies something in a fluid path relatively closer to a reduced-pressure source, and
conversely, the term "upstream" implies something relatively further away from a reduced
pressure source. Similarly, it may be convenient to describe certain features in terms of fluid
"inlet" or "outlet" in such a frame of reference. However, the fluid path may also be reversed in
some applications (such as by substituting a positive-pressure source for a reduced-pressure
source) and this descriptive convention should not be construed as a limiting convention.
[0023]      "Reduced pressure" generally refers to a pressure less than a local ambient
pressure, such as the ambient pressure in a local environment external to a sealed therapeutic
environment. In many cases, the local ambient pressure may also be the atmospheric
pressure at which a patient is located. Alternatively, the pressure may be less than a
hydrostatic pressure associated with tissue at the tissue site. Unless otherwise indicated,
values of pressure stated herein are gauge pressures. Similarly, references to increases in
reduced pressure typically refer to a decrease in absolute pressure, while decreases in
reduced pressure typically refer to an increase in absolute pressure.
[0024]      The components of the therapy system 100 may be coupled directly or indirectly.
Components may be fluidly coupled to each other to provide a path for transferring fluids (for

                                                -7
example, liquid and/or gas) between the components. In some exemplary embodiments,
components may be fluidly coupled with a conduit, such as the tube 120, for example. A "tube,"
as used herein, broadly refers to a tube, pipe, hose, conduit, or other structure with one or
more lumina adapted to convey fluids between two ends. Typically, a tube may be an
elongated, cylindrical structure with some flexibility, but the geometry and rigidity may vary. In
some exemplary embodiments, components may additionally or alternatively be coupled by
virtue of physical proximity, being integral to a single structure, or being formed from the same
piece of material. Coupling may also include mechanical, thermal, electrical, or chemical
coupling (such as a chemical bond) in some contexts.
[0025]     The reduced pressure developed by the reduced-pressure source 104 may be
delivered through the tube 120 to the connector 122. The connector 122 may be a device
configured to fluidly couple the reduced-pressure source 104 to the dressing 102. In some
exemplary embodiments, the connector 122 may include a flange portion 123 that may couple
to the dressing 102 and a port portion that may fluidly couple to the tube 120. The port portion
may be fluidly sealed to the flange portion 123 and may provide fluid communication through
the flange portion 123. In some embodiments, the connector 122 may prevent fluid
communication between a sealed therapeutic environment formed by the dressing 102 and the
ambient environment. The connector 122 may allow fluid communication through the dressing
102 between the tissue site 106 and the tube 120. The connector 122 may also include a
primary filter 121 disposed within a fluid channel of the connector 122. The primary filter 121
may be a hydrophobic material substantially filling the fluid channel through the connector 122
and adapted to limit passage of liquids through the connector 122 into the tube 120. In some
embodiments, the connector 122 may be a T.R.A.C.* Pad or Sensa T.R.A.C.* Pad available
from Kinetic Concepts, Inc. (KCI) of San Antonio, Texas. In other exemplary embodiments, the
connector 122 may be a conduit inserted into the dressing 102.
[0026]     The dressing 102 may include a manifold 110 adapted to be in fluid communication
with the tissue site 106, a pouch 112 adapted to be in fluid communication between the
manifold 110 and the connector 122, and a drape 108 covering both the manifold 110 and the
pouch 112 at the tissue site 106. The manifold 110 may be placed within, over, on, or otherwise
proximate a tissue site, for example, the tissue site 106. The pouch 112 may be placed
adjacent the manifold 110, and the drape 108 may be placed over the manifold 110 and sealed
to tissue proximate the tissue site 106. The tissue proximate the tissue site 106 may often be
undamaged epidermis peripheral to the tissue site 106. Thus, the dressing 102 can provide the
sealed therapeutic environment proximate the tissue site 106, substantially isolating the tissue

                                                -8
site 106 from the external environment. The reduced-pressure source 104 can reduce the
pressure in the sealed therapeutic environment. Reduced pressure applied uniformly through
the manifold 110 in the sealed therapeutic environment can induce macrostrain and microstrain
in the tissue site 106, as well as remove exudates and other fluids from the tissue site 106,
which can be collected in the pouch 112 and disposed of properly.
[0027]      In some embodiments, the manifold 110 contacts the tissue site 106. The manifold
may be partially or fully in contact with the tissue site 106. If the tissue site 106 extends into
tissue from a tissue surface, for example, the manifold 110 may partially or completely fill the
tissue site 106. In other exemplary embodiments, the manifold 110 may be placed over the
tissue site 106. The manifold 110 may take many forms, and may have many sizes, shapes, or
thicknesses depending on a variety of factors, such as the type of treatment being
implemented or the nature and size of the tissue site 106. For example, the size and shape of
the manifold 110 may be adapted to the contours of deep and irregular shaped tissue sites.
[0028]     The manifold 110 may be a substance or structure adapted to distribute reduced
pressure to a tissue site, remove fluids from a tissue site, or distribute reduced pressure to and
remove fluids from a tissue site. In some exemplary embodiments, a manifold may also
facilitate delivering fluids to a tissue site, for example, if the fluid path is reversed or a
secondary fluid path is provided. A manifold may include flow channels or pathways that
distribute fluids provided to and removed from a tissue site around the manifold. In one
exemplary embodiment, the flow channels or pathways may be interconnected to improve
distribution of fluids provided to or removed from a tissue site. For example, cellular foam,
open-cell foam, porous tissue collections, and other porous material, such as gauze or felted
mat, generally include structural elements arranged to form flow channels. Liquids, gels, and
other foams may also include or be cured to include flow channels.
[0029]      In one exemplary embodiment, the manifold 110 may be a porous foam material
having interconnected cells or pores adapted to uniformly (or quasi-uniformly) distribute
reduced pressure to the tissue site 106. The foam material may be either hydrophobic or
hydrophilic. In one non- limiting example, the manifold 110 can be an open-cell, reticulated
polyurethane foam such as GranuFoam* dressing available from Kinetic Concepts, Inc. of San
Antonio, Texas.
[0030]      In an example in which the manifold 110 may be made from a hydrophilic material,
the manifold 110 may also wick fluid away from the tissue site 106, while continuing to

                                              -9
distribute reduced pressure to the tissue site 106. The wicking properties of the manifold 110
may draw fluid away from the tissue site 106 by capillary flow or other wicking mechanisms. An
example of a hydrophilic foam is a polyvinyl alcohol, open-cell foam such as V.A.C.
WhiteFoam® dressing available from Kinetic Concepts, Inc. of San Antonio, Texas. Other
hydrophilic foams may include those made from polyether. Other foams that may exhibit
hydrophilic characteristics include hydrophobic foams that have been treated or coated to
provide hydrophilicity.
[0031]      The manifold 110 may further promote granulation at the tissue site 106 if pressure
within the sealed therapeutic environment is reduced. For example, any or all of the surfaces
of the manifold 110 may have an uneven, coarse, or jagged profile that can induce microstrains
and stresses at the tissue site 106 if reduced pressure is applied through the manifold 110 to
the tissue site 106.
[0032]      In one exemplary embodiment, the manifold 110 may be constructed from
bioresorable materials. Suitable bioresorbable materials may include, without limitation, a
polymeric blend of polylactic acid (PLA) and polyglycolic acid (PGA). The polymeric blend may
also include, without limitation, polycarbonates, polyfumarates, and capralactones. The
manifold 110 may further serve as a scaffold for new cell-growth, or a scaffold material may be
used in conjunction with the manifold 110 to promote cell-growth. A scaffold is generally a
substance or structure used to enhance or promote the growth of cells or formation of tissue,
such as a three-dimensional porous structure that provides a template for cell growth.
Illustrative examples of scaffold materials include calcium phosphate, collagen, PLA/PGA,
coral hydroxy apatites, carbonates, or processed allograft materials.
[0033]      The drape 108 may include a sealing member. A sealing member may be
constructed from a material that can provide a fluid seal between two components or two
environments, such as between the sealed therapeutic environment and a local ambient
environment. A sealing member may be, for example, an impermeable or semi-permeable,
elastomeric material that can provide a seal adequate to maintain a reduced pressure at a
tissue site for a given reduced-pressure source. For semi-permeable              materials, the
permeability generally should be low enough that a desired reduced pressure may be
maintained. The drape 108 may further include an attachment device that may be used to
attach the sealing member to an attachment surface, such as undamaged epidermis, a gasket,
or another sealing member. The attachment device may take many forms. For example, an
attachment device may be a medically acceptable, pressure-sensitive adhesive that extends

                                               - 10
about a periphery of, a portion of, or an entirety of the sealing member. Other exemplary
embodiments of an attachment device may include a double-sided tape, paste, hydrocolloid,
hydrogel, silicone gel, organogel, or an acrylic adhesive.
[0034]     Referring more specifically to FIGURE 2, the pouch 112 may include an absorbent
member 124, a first outer layer, such as an upstream layer 126, and a second outer layer, such
as a downstream layer 128. The upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 envelop or
enclose the absorbent member 124, which absorbs bodily fluids drawn by the reduced
pressure through the upstream layer 126.
[0035]    The absorbent member 124 may be formed of or include an absorbent material. The
absorbent material functions to hold, stabilize, and/or solidify fluids that may be collected from
the tissue site 106. The absorbent material may be of the type referred to as "hydrogels,"
"super-absorbents," or "hydrocolloids." If disposed within the dressing 102, the absorbent
material may be formed into fibers or spheres to manifold reduced pressure until the absorbent
member 124 becomes saturated. Spaces or voids between the fibers or spheres may allow a
reduced pressure that is supplied to the dressing 102 to be transferred within and through the
absorbent member 124 to the manifold 110 and the tissue site 106. In some exemplary
embodiments, the absorbent material may be Texsus FP2325 having a material density of 800
grams per square meter (gsm). In other exemplary embodiments, the absorbent material may
be    BASF     402C,   Technical  Absorbents     2317   available    from   Technical  Absorbents
(www.techabsorbents.com), sodium polyacrylate super absorbers, cellulosics (carboxy methyl
cellulose and salts such as sodium CMC), or alginates.
[0036]     In some exemplary embodiments, the absorbent material may be formed of granular
absorbent components that may be scatter coated onto a paper substrate. Scatter coating
involves spreading a granular absorbent powder uniformly onto a textile substrate, such as
paper. The substrate, having the granular absorbent powder disposed thereon, may be passed
through an oven to cure the powder and cause the powder to adhere to the paper substrate.
The cured granular absorbent powder and substrate may be passed through a calender
machine to provide a smooth uniform surface to the absorbent material. The absorbent
materials that may be formed using a scatter coating process experience partial absorbent
material loss during handling. The absorbent material loss may occur while positioning the
absorbent material proximate the tissue site, while transporting the absorbent material from the
manufacturing facility to the facility of use, or during the process of manufacturing a pouch
formed solely of absorbent material.

                                              - 11
[0037]     In some exemplary embodiments, the upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer
128 have perimeter dimensions that may be larger than the perimeter dimensions of the
absorbent member 124 so that, if the absorbent member 124 is positioned between the
upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 and the center portions of the absorbent
member 124, the upstream layer 126, and the downstream layer 128 are aligned, the
upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 may extend beyond the perimeter of the
absorbent member 124. In some exemplary embodiments, the upstream layer 126 and the
downstream layer 128 surround the absorbent member 124. Peripheral portions of the
upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 may be coupled so that the upstream layer
126 and the downstream layer 128 enclose the absorbent member 124. The upstream layer
126 and the downstream layer 128 may be coupled by high frequency welding, ultrasonic
welding, heat welding, or impulse welding, for example. In other exemplary embodiments, the
upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 may be coupled by bonding or folding, for
example.
[0038]     Referring more specifically to FIGURE 2 and FIGURE 3, the upstream layer 126 may
have a first side, such as a hydrophobic side 130, and a second side, such as a hydrophilic
side 132. The hydrophilic side 132 may be positioned adjacent the absorbent member 124
such that the hydrophobic side 130 of the upstream layer 126 is also an upstream side of the
pouch 112. The upstream layer 126 may be formed of non-woven material having a thickness
138. In some exemplary embodiments, the upstream layer 126 may have a polyester fibrous
porous structure. The upstream layer 126 may be porous, but preferably not be perforated.
The upstream layer 126 may have a material density of about 80 gsm. In other exemplary
embodiments, the material density may be lower or greater depending on the particular
application of the pouch 112. The upstream layer 126 may be formed of Libeltex TDL2, for
example.
[0039]    The hydrophobic side 130 may be configured to distribute bodily fluids from the
manifold 110 across the upstream surface area of the pouch 112. The hydrophobic side 130
may also be referred to as a wicking side, wicking surface, distribution surface, distribution
side, or fluid distribution surface. The hydrophobic side 130 may be a smooth distribution
surface configured to move fluid through the upstream layer 126 along a grain of the upstream
layer 126, distributing fluid throughout the upstream layer 126. The hydrophilic side 132 may
be configured to acquire bodily fluid from the hydrophobic side 130 to aid in bodily fluid
movement into the absorbent member 124. The hydrophilic side 132 may also be referred to
as a fluid acquisition surface, fluid acquisition side, hydrophilic acquisition surface, or

                                                -12
hydrophilic acquisition side. The hydrophilic side 132 may be a fibrous surface and be
configured to draw fluid into the upstream layer 126. While illustrated in FIGURE 3 as separate
components, the hydrophilic side 132 and the hydrophobic side 130 of the upstream layer 126
may be opposite sides of the upstream layer 126 and are shown as separate components to
aid in explanation.
[0040]     The downstream layer 128 may have a first side, such as a hydrophobic side 134,
and a second side, such as a hydrophilic side 136. The hydrophobic side 134 may be
positioned adjacent the absorbent member 124 so that the hydrophilic side 136 of the
downstream layer 128 is also a downstream side of the pouch 112. The downstream layer 128
may be formed of a non-woven material having a thickness 140. In some exemplary
embodiments, the downstream layer 128 may have a polyester fibrous porous structure. The
downstream layer 128 may be porous, but preferably not be perforated. The downstream layer
128 may have a material density of about 150 gsm. In other exemplary embodiments, the
material density may be lower or greater depending on the particular application of the pouch
112. The material density of the downstream layer 128 may be greater than the material
density of the upstream layer 126. The thickness 140 of the downstream layer 128 may be
greater than the thickness 138 of the upstream layer 126. In the exemplary embodiment
illustrated in FIGURES 2 and 3, the thickness 140 may be about three times greater than the
thickness 138. The downstream layer 128 may be formed of Libeltex TL4. In other exemplary
embodiments, the downstream layer 128 may be formed of Libeltex TDL2.
[0041]     The hydrophobic side 134 may be disposed adjacent the absorbent member 124 on
an opposite side of the absorbent member 124 from the hydrophilic side 132 of the upstream
layer 126. The hydrophobic side 134 may be configured to distribute bodily fluids not contained
by the absorbent member 124 to the hydrophilic side 136 of the downstream layer 128. The
hydrophobic side 134 may also be referred to as a wicking side, wicking surface, distribution
surface, distribution side, or fluid distribution surface. The hydrophobic side 134 may be a
smooth distribution surface configured to move fluid through the downstream layer 128 along a
grain of the downstream layer 128, distributing fluid throughout downstream layer 128. The
hydrophilic side 136 may be configured to acquire excess bodily fluids wicked by the
hydrophobic side 134 from the absorbent member 124. The hydrophilic side 136 may also be
referred to as a fluid acquisition surface, fluid acquisition side, hydrophilic acquisition surface,
or hydrophilic acquisition side. The hydrophilic side 136 may be a fibrous surface and be
configured to draw fluid into the downstream layer 128. While illustrated in FIGURE 3 as
separate components, the hydrophobic side 134 and the hydrophilic side 136 may be opposite

                                                 - 13
sides of the downstream layer 128 and may be shown as separate components to aid in
explanation of the described exemplary embodiments.
[0042]     As described herein, the upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 contain
the absorbent member 124, reducing absorbent material loss during manufacturing, shipping,
and use of the pouch 112. Containment of the absorbent material prevents loss of the granular
absorbent components as the pouch 1 12 may be moved during the manufacturing process. In
addition, containment of the absorbent material in the pouch 112 formed from the upstream
layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 may reduce loss of the granular absorbent
components during use of the pouch 112, for example, while placing the pouch 112 adjacent
the tissue site 106 or positioning the pouch 112 in the therapy system 100. Still further, if the
pouch 112 is used at the tissue site 106, containment of the absorbent material may limit
migration of the granular absorbent components into the tissue site 106.
[0043]     If the tissue site 106 is small, the pouch 112 may aid the manifold 110 in distribution
of reduced pressure to the tissue site 106. The upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer
128 may enclose the absorbent member 124, manifold reduced pressure to the tissue site 106,
and wick fluids from the tissue site 106 into the absorbent member 124. The pouch 112 may
accommodate the increased difficulties of enclosing, manifolding, and wicking that may be
experienced when treating a smaller tissue site 106. In addition, the pouch 112 may prevent
the loss of structural integrity associated with using scatter coated absorbent material to form
the absorbent member 124 that may often lead to more frequent replacement of the pouch
112.
[0044]     During the application of reduced pressure, some pouches containing absorbent
materials tend to become saturated at the point of fluid entry into the absorbent member itself.
If the absorbent material becomes saturated in one area prior to saturation of the absorbent
material in other areas, the absorbent material experiences a reduced ability to move fluid from
the point of entry to areas of the absorbent material that may be unsaturated. In addition, the
amount of reduced pressure distributed to the tissue site may be reduced, decreasing the
therapeutic benefits of using reduced pressure. If pouches are decreased in size to be placed
adjacent smaller tissue sites or tissue sites that produce smaller amounts of exudate, the
pouch's absorbent capability may be further reduced. If the absorbent capability of such
pouches is reduced, more frequent dressing changes may be needed, thereby increasing the
cost of supplying reduced-pressure therapy.

                                                - 14
[0045]     As disclosed herein, the therapy system 100 overcomes these shortcomings and
others by providing the pouch 112 as described above with respect to FIGURES 2-3. In the
operative exemplary embodiments, the rate of fluid flow received by the pouch 112 may be
relatively slow for a relatively long duration. Placing the hydrophobic side 130 of the upstream
layer 126 adjacent the manifold 110 may allow the hydrophobic nature of the hydrophobic side
130 to move the fluid along a grain (not shown) of the hydrophobic side 130 across a width of
the upstream layer 126. The fluid movement may be parallel to the manifold 110 and away
from the strongest point of reduced pressure. This wicking action spreads the fluid drawn from
the tissue site 106 across a wider area. As the fluid moves through the upstream layer 126
from the hydrophobic side 130 toward the absorbent member 124 it reaches the hydrophilic
side 132. The hydrophilic side 132 draws the fluid into the absorbent member 124. The
gradient of hydrophilicity increases from the hydrophobic side 130 to the hydrophilic side 132
as the fluid moves downstream toward the absorbent member 124.
[0046]      In operation, the increased thickness 140 and increased material density of the
downstream layer 128 aid the distribution of reduced pressure to the upstream layer 126 and
the manifold 110. In one exemplary embodiment, the upstream layer 126 may have a density
of about 80 gsm, and the downstream layer 128 may have a density of about 150 gsm so that
the relative thickness of the downstream layer 128 to the upstream layer 126 may be about
1.875. The relative thickness of the downstream layer 128 in other exemplary embodiments
may fall in the range from about 1.5 to about 3.0 for other reduced-pressure therapy
applications. The distribution of reduced pressure by the downstream layer 128 aids the
wicking action of the hydrophobic side 130 of the upstream layer 126 so that fluids drawn from
the tissue site 106 may be more evenly distributed in the dressing 102. In turn, more even
distribution of the fluids drawn from the tissue site 106 provides for more efficient use of the
absorbent member 124, increasing the time between replacement of the dressing 102, and
decreasing costs as fewer dressings may be needed to absorb an equivalent amount of fluid.
[0047]      Positioning of the upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128, as described
herein, may orient grains of the upstream layer 126 and the downstream layer 128 in a manner
that increases the efficient use of the absorbent member 124. By placing the hydrophilic side
136 proximate the reduced-pressure source 104. The hydrophilic side 126 may also act as an
additional filter mechanism that may aid in preventing blockage of the primary filter 121 of the
connector 122. The duration during which the dressing 102 can manifold reduced pressure
may also extended. By using materials that provide a wicking function, the efficient use of
available absorbent materials can be improved.

                                                -15
[0048]      The use of layers that wick fluids and manifold reduced pressure allows for
controlled use of the available absorbent material. The layers, arranged as described above,
distribute reduced pressure such that fluid may be more evenly distributed to the absorbent
member of the pouch, increasing the total time necessary to saturate the absorbent materials
of the absorbent member as more fluid pathways may be used to distribute the fluid. The use
of layers to form the pouch with structures of differing hydrophilicity allows for better control of
the fluids entering the absorbent member of the pouch. The use of layers having different
coatweights allows the properties of the pouch to be matched to the application in a technically
better and cost effective solution. The solution disclosed will result in a greater level of
absorption before capacity may be reached without requiring additional absorbent material.
[0049]      The systems and methods described herein may provide significant advantages,
some of which have already been mentioned. For example, the therapy system provides
improved materials efficiency, lower cost, and does a better job at manifolding reduced
pressure. The disclosed exemplary embodiment may also be used with inline canisters, for
example, fluid absorbing pouches or fluid absorbing canisters disposed external to the
dressing.
[0050]      It should be apparent from the foregoing that an invention having significant
advantages has been provided. While shown in only a few forms, the systems and methods
illustrated are susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the
spirit thereof.
[0051]      Although certain illustrative, non- limiting exemplary embodiments have been
presented, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions, permutations, and
alterations can be made without departing from the scope the appended claims. It will be
appreciated that any feature that is described in connection to any one exemplary embodiment
may also be applicable to any other exemplary embodiment.
[0052]      It will be understood that the benefits and advantages described above may relate to
one exemplary embodiment or may relate to several exemplary embodiments. It will further be
understood that reference to "an" item refers to one or more of those items.
[0053]      The steps of the methods described herein may be carried out in any suitable order,
or simultaneously where appropriate.

                                               - 16
[0054]     Where appropriate, features of any of the exemplary embodiments described above
may be combined with features of any of the other exemplary embodiments described to form
further examples having comparable or different properties and addressing the same or
different problems.
[0055]     It will be understood that the above description of preferred exemplary embodiments
is given by way of example only and that various modifications may be made by those skilled
in the art. The above specification, examples and data provide a complete description of the
structure and use of exemplary embodiments of the invention. Although various exemplary
embodiments of the invention have been described above with a certain degree of particularity,
or with reference to one or more individual exemplary embodiments, those skilled in the art
could make numerous alterations to the disclosed exemplary embodiments without departing
from the scope of the claims.

                                                - 17
CLAIMS
1.         A system for collecting fluid from a tissue site, the system comprising:
           a manifold adapted to be placed adjacent the tissue site;
           a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and the manifold;
           a reduced-pressure source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the
sealing member; and
           a pouch adapted to be positioned between the manifold and the sealing member,
the pouch comprising:
           an upstream layer having a first thickness, a hydrophilic side, and a hydrophobic
side,
           a downstream layer having a second thickness, a hydrophilic side, and a
hydrophobic side, and
           an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream
layer, the hydrophilic side of the upstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member so
that the hydrophobic side of the upstream layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus,
and the hydrophobic side of the downstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member
so that the hydrophilic side of the downstream layer forms another portion of the exterior of the
apparatus,
           wherein the second thickness is greater than the first thickness.
2.         The system of claim 1, wherein the second thickness is about three times greater
than the first thickness.
3.         The system of claim 1, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm.
4.         The system of claim 1, wherein the downstream layer has a material density of about
150 gsm.
5.         The system of claim 1, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm and the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
6.         The system of claim 1, wherein:
           the second thickness is about three times greater than the first thickness;
           the upstream layer has a material density of about 80 gsm; and
           the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.

                                                 -18
7.         The system of claim 1, further comprising a connector fluidly coupled to the reduced
pressure source and coupled to the sealing member to fluidly couple the reduced-pressure
source to the manifold.
8.         The system of claim 1, further comprising a tube having at least one lumen fluidly
coupled to the reduced pressure source on a first end and fluidly coupled to the manifold on a
second end that is opposite the first end.
9.         The system of claim 1, further comprising:
           a tube having a least one lumen, a first end, and a second end, the first end fluidly
coupled to the reduced-pressure source; and
           a connector having a flange portion and a port portion, the flange portion coupled to
the sealing member and the port portion fluidly coupled to the second end of the tube.
10.        A system for treating a tissue site with reduced pressure, the system comprising:
           a manifold adapted to be placed adjacent the tissue site;
           a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and the manifold to
provide a substantially air-tight seal at the tissue site;
           a reduced-pressure source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the
sealing member; and
           a pouch adapted to be positioned between the manifold and the sealing member,
the pouch comprising:
           an upstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side,
           a downstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, and
           an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream
layer, the hydrophilic side of the upstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member
and the hydrophobic side of the downstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member.
11.        The system of claim 10, wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the
downstream layer has a second thickness, and the second thickness is greater than the first
thickness.
12.        The system of claim 10, wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the
downstream layer has a second thickness, and the second thickness is about three times
greater than the first thickness.

                                                -19
13.        The system of claim 10, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm.
14.        The system of claim 10, wherein the downstream layer has a material density of
about 150 gsm.
15.        The system of claim 10, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm and the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
16.        The system of claim 10, wherein:
           wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the downstream layer has a
second thickness;
           the second thickness is about three times greater than the first thickness;
           the upstream layer has a material density of about 80 gsm; and
           the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
17.        An apparatus for collecting fluid from a tissue site, the apparatus comprising:
           an upstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side;
           a downstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side; and
           an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the downstream
layer, the hydrophilic side of the upstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member so
that the hydrophobic side of the upstream layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus,
and the hydrophobic side of the downstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member
so that the hydrophilic side of the downstream layer forms another portion of the exterior of the
apparatus.
18.        The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the
downstream layer has a second thickness, and the second thickness is greater than the first
thickness.
19.        The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the
downstream layer has a second thickness, and the second thickness is about three times
greater than the first thickness.
20.        The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of
about 80 gsm.

                                                 - 20
21.       The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the downstream layer has a material density of
about 150 gsm.
22.       The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of
about 80 gsm and the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
23.       The apparatus of claim 17, wherein:
          wherein the upstream layer has a first thickness and the downstream layer has a
second thickness;
          the second thickness is about three times greater than the first thickness;
          the upstream layer has a material density of about 80 gsm; and
          the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
24.       A system for treating a tissue site with reduced pressure, the system comprising:
          a manifold adapted to be placed adjacent the tissue site;
          a sealing member adapted to be placed over the tissue site and the manifold to
provide a substantially air-tight seal at the tissue site;
          a reduced-pressure source adapted to be fluidly coupled to the manifold through the
sealing member; and
          a pouch adapted to be positioned between the manifold and the sealing member,
the pouch having an upstream layer having a first thickness, a downstream layer having a
second thickness, and an absorbent member enclosed between the upstream layer and the
downstream layer, wherein the second thickness is greater than the first thickness.
25.       The system of claim 24, wherein the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side adjacent
the absorbent member.
26.       The system of claim 24, wherein the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side opposite
the absorbent member.
27.       The system of claim 24, wherein:
          the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
          the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side opposite the absorbent member.
28.       The system of claim 24, wherein the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side
adjacent the absorbent member.

                                               - 21
29.        The system of claim 24, wherein the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side
opposite the absorbent member.
30.        The system of claim 24, wherein:
           the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
           the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side opposite the absorbent member.
31.        The system of claim 24, wherein:
           the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side adjacent the absorbent member;
           the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side opposite the absorbent member;
           the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
           the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side opposite the absorbent member.
32.        The system of claim 24, wherein the second thickness is about three times greater
than the first thickness.
33.        The system of claim 24, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm.
34.        The system of claim 24, wherein the downstream layer has a material density of
about 150 gsm.
35.        The system of claim 24, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of about
80 gsm and the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
36.        The system of claim 24, wherein
           the second thickness is about three times greater than the first thickness;
           the upstream layer has a material density of about 80 gsm; and
           the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
37.        An apparatus for receiving fluid from a tissue site, the apparatus comprising:
           an upstream layer having a first thickness;
           a downstream layer having a second thickness greater than the first thickness;
           an absorbent member disposed between the upstream layer and the downstream
layer so that the upstream layer and the downstream layer enclose the absorbent member.
38.        The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side

                                             - 22
adjacent the absorbent member.
39.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side
opposite the absorbent member.
40.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein:
           the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
           the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side opposite the absorbent member.
41.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side
adjacent the absorbent member.
42.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side
opposite the absorbent member.
43.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein:
           the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
           the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side opposite the absorbent member.
44.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein:
           the upstream layer has a hydrophilic side adjacent the absorbent member;
           the upstream layer has a hydrophobic side opposite the absorbent member;
           the downstream layer has a hydrophobic side adjacent the absorbent member; and
           the downstream layer has a hydrophilic side opposite the absorbent member.
45.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the second thickness is about three times
greater than the first thickness.
46.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of
about 80 gsm.
47.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the downstream layer has a material density of
about 150 gsm.
48.       The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the upstream layer has a material density of
about 80 gsm and the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.

                                                 - 23
49.        The apparatus of claim 37, wherein
           the second thickness is about three times greater than the first thickness;
           the upstream layer has a material density of about 80 gsm; and
           the downstream layer has a material density of about 150 gsm.
50.        A method for treating a tissue site, the method comprising:
           positioning a manifold adjacent the tissue site;
           providing a pouch comprising:
           an upstream layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, a downstream
layer having a hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side, and an absorbent member enclosed
between the upstream layer and the downstream layer, the hydrophilic side of the upstream
layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member so that the hydrophobic side of the upstream
layer forms a portion of an exterior of the apparatus, and the hydrophobic side of the
downstream layer positioned adjacent the absorbent member so that the hydrophilic side of
the downstream layer forms another portion of the exterior of the apparatus;
           positioning the pouch adjacent the manifold and the tissue site so that the upstream
layer is adjacent the manifold;
           positioning a sealing member over the manifold and the pouch to provide a
substantially air-tight seal;
           fluidly coupling a reduced-pressure source to the manifold to provide reduced
pressure to the tissue site;
           distributing reduced pressure to the manifold through the pouch; and
           distributing fluid from the tissue site to an absorbent member in the pouch for
storage therein.
51.        A method for manufacturing a fluid storage canister, the method comprising:
           providing a first layer having a first thickness, a hydrophilic side, and a hydrophobic
side;
           positioning an absorbent member adjacent the hydrophilic side of the first layer;
           providing a second layer have a second thickness greater than the first thickness, a
hydrophilic side and a hydrophobic side;
           positioning the hydrophobic side of the second layer adjacent the absorbent
member; and
           coupling peripheral portions of the first layer and the second layer to enclose the
absorbent member.

                                            - 24
52.        The method of claim 51, wherein coupling peripheral portions of the first layer and
the second layer comprises welding peripheral portions of the first layer and the second layer.
53.        The method of claim 51, wherein coupling peripheral portions of the first layer and
the second layer comprises bonding peripheral portions of the first layer and the second layer.
54.        The method of claim 51, wherein coupling peripheral portions of the first layer and
the second layer comprises folding peripheral portions of the first layer and the second layer,
55.        The method of claim 51, wherein the second thickness is about three times greater
than the first thickness.
56.        The method of claim 51, wherein the first layer has a material density of about 80
gsm.
57.        The method of claim 51, wherein the second layer has a material density of about
150 gsm.
58.        The system, methods, and apparatuses as described herein.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
