                                       ABSTRACT
         An erosion reduction device having an elongate plug, the elongate plug
  having a first opening at a first end fluidly connected to a second opening at a
5 second end thereof, the first opening adapted to receive a water hose or water fitting,
  and an enlarged anchor portion located towards the second opening, and a plurality
  of fronds attached to the elongate plug, wherein the elongate plug is made from a
  biodegradable material.

             1/3
10
       12
                          14
   24
    24
                       22
                       26
   20                 28
                       18
                   16
          Figure 1

                                                -1
                                 EROSION REDUCTION DEVICE
                                      FIELD OF INVENTION
            The present invention relates to an erosion reduction device. The present
 5 invention has particular but not exclusive application for reducing or preventing
   erosion in a body of water. Reference will be made in the specification to the use of
   the invention with respect to assisting in the build up of silt and/or sand on the floor
   of a waterway.        The patent specification describes this use but it is by way of
   example only and the invention is not limited to this use.
 0
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Water bodies subject to fast flows and tidal flows are typically subject to
   erosion of sand and/or silt on the bed or floor of the body of water.            Erosion is
   typically most prevalent in proximity to a shoreline, however, sand banks are also
 5 subject to erosion.
            There are numerous ways that erosion has been addressed in the prior art.
   Large scale structures such as groins, break waters and artificial reefs have been
   used, these structures are costly, environmentally invasive and have limited success.
            Other prior art solutions include artificial seaweed.     One artificial seaweed
 0 solution sits on a sand bed with artificial fronds floating in the sea, however, this
   solution does not reinforce the sand underneath the sand bed which is vulnerable to
   movement.
            Another prior art solution uses a plug at the base of artificial seaweed which is
   driven into the sand bed so that the plug sits beneath the surface and reinforces the
25 sand. However, a problem with this solution is that the artificial seaweed and plug is
   difficult to remove and can cause ecological damage over time.
                                   OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
            It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least alleviate one or
30 more of the above mentioned problems with erosion prevention devices and/or
   provide the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.

                                                -2
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect, the present invention broadly resides in an erosion reduction
   device having
           an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a first opening at a first end fluidly
 5 connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening adapted to
   receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion located towards
   the second opening; and
           a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug,
           wherein the elongate plug is made from a biodegradable material.
 o         In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in an erosion
   reduction device having
           an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a first opening at a first end fluidly
   connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening adapted to
   receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion located towards
 5 the second opening; and
           a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug,
           wherein the plurality of fronds are plant based.
           The first opening of the elongate plug is preferably tapered. The tapered first
   opening preferably enables the water hose or water fitting to be easily received in the
 0 opening.
           The elongate plug preferably has a tapered portion towards the first end. The
   tapered portion preferably biases the plurality of fronds outwardly relative to a
   longitudinal axis of the elongate plug. The tapered portion preferably defines the
   tapered first opening.
25         The tapered portion preferably includes ridges, ribs or protrusions on an outer
   surface thereof. The ridges, ribs or protrusions preferably assist in retaining the
   plurality of fronds attached to the plug.
           The elongate plug preferably includes a shoulder portion.         The shoulder
   portion is preferably located below or at the lower end of the tapered portion (i.e.
30 towards the second end). The shoulder portion is preferably conical in shape. The
   shoulder portion preferably extends outwardly towards an upper portion thereof (i.e.
   towards the first end). The shoulder portion is preferably adapted to contain and/or
   support a lower portion of the plurality of fronds.

                                                -3
          The enlarged anchor portion is preferably tapered to assist in insertion into a
   bed or floor of a body of water. The enlarged anchor portion preferably expands
   outwardly towards the first end.        The enlarged anchor portion is preferably cone
   shaped.
 5        The second opening is preferably adapted to direct water from the water hose
   or water fitting into a bed or floor of a body of water to assist in inserting the elongate
   plug into the bed or floor of the body of water. The second opening is preferably
   smaller in area than the first opening. More preferably, the second opening has a
   smaller diameter than the first opening.
 O        The elongate plug is preferably made from a biodegradable plastic or a
   combination of different biodegradable plastics.        The elongate plug is preferably
   made from PLA (poly lactic acid) plastic. Preferably the PLA plastic is manufactured
   from corn starch or sugar cane.       In another embodiment, the elongate plug is made
   from a Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) biodegradable plastic. Polyhydroxyalkanoates
 5 (PHAs)    include    poly-3-hydroxybutyrate     (PHB),   polyhydroxyvalerate     (PHV)    or
   polyhydroxyhexanoate (PHH).
          In one embodiment, the plurality of fronds are a plurality of bamboo fronds. In
   another embodiment, the plurality of fronds are a plurality of branches.              In yet
   another embodiment, the fronds are made from straw or vines.
 O        In another embodiment, the fronds are made from a biodegradable plastic or
   a combination of different biodegradable plastics. In one embodiment, the fronds are
   buoyant in water or include buoyant portions or attachments.
          The fronds are preferably attached to the elongate plug using wire. In another
   embodiment, the fronds are attached using string. In yet another embodiment, the
25 fronds are attached using clamps. The clamps are preferably metal clamps.
          Preferably the elongate plug is formed as a single piece. In one embodiment,
   the elongate plug is made from 2 pieces, an upper piece and a lower piece.
   Preferably the upper piece includes the first opening, the tapered portion and the
   shoulder portion. Preferably the second piece includes the second opening and the
30 enlarged anchor portion.
          In use, the elongate plug is preferably driven into sand or silt of a bed or floor
   of a body of water. Water from the water hose or water fitting is preferably directed
   through the second opening. The water under pressure preferably liquefies the sand

                                                -4
   or silt and assists in inserting the elongate plug into the sand or silt. The plurality of
   fronds preferably extend from the sand or silt of the bed or floor of a body of water.
           In a further aspect, the present invention broadly resides in an erosion
   reduction device having
 5         an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a first opening at a first end fluidly
   connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening adapted to
   receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion located towards
   the second opening; and
           a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug,
 0         wherein the elongate plug is made from a biodegradable plastic.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in an erosion
   reduction device having
           an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a tapered first opening at a first
   end fluidly connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening
 5 adapted to receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion
   located towards the second opening; and
           a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug.
           The features described with respect to one aspect also apply where
   applicable to all other aspects of the invention. Furthermore, different combinations
 0 of described features are herein described and claimed even when not expressly
   stated.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           In order that the present invention can be more readily understood reference
25 will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred
   embodiment of the invention and wherein:
           Figure 1 is a cross section view of an elongate plug according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
           Figure 2 is a schematic view of an erosion reduction device according to an
30 embodiment of the present invention; and
           Figure 3 is a view of the erosion reduction device of Figure 2 being inserted
   into sand on the floor of a waterway.

                                               -5
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
           With reference to Figure 1 there is shown an elongate plug 10. The elongate
 5 plug 10 is hollow, having a first opening 12 at a first end 14 of the elongate plug 10.
   The elongate plug 10 has a second opening 16 at a second end 18 thereof.
           The elongate plug has an enlarged anchor portion 20 located towards the
   second end 18. The enlarged anchor portion 20 is conical in shape.
           The first opening 12 is tapered, decreasing in cross sectional area from the
 0 first end 14 towards the second end 18. The first opening 12 is defined by a tapered
   portion 22.
           The tapered portion 22 includes ridges 24 on an outer surface thereof.
           The elongate plug includes a shoulder portion 26 located at the lower end of
   the tapered portion 22. The shoulder portion 26 is conical in shape.
 5         The elongate plug 10 has an extension portion 28 located between the
   shoulder portion 26 and the enlarged anchor portion 20.
           The elongate plug 10 is made from Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) plastic. The
   PHA plastic is biodegradable and degrades over time in water.
           In use, the shoulder portion 26 is adapted to contain and support a lower
 0 portion of a plurality of fronds (not shown). The tapered portion 22 towards the first
   end 14 biases the plurality of fronds outwardly (not shown, see figure 2). The ridges
   24 assist in retaining the plurality of fronds (not shown, see figure 2) attached to the
   elongate plug 10.
           With reference to Figure 2 there is shown a schematic view of an erosion
25 reduction device 100 according to an embodiment of the present invention. The
   erosion reduction device 100 has an elongate plug 10 as described with reference to
   Figure 1.
           The erosion reduction device 100 has a plurality of fronds in the form of
   bamboo fronds 40 attached to the tapered portion (22 in Figure 1) of the elongate
30 plug 10. The bamboo fronds 40 are biased outwardly by the tapered portion. The
   bamboo fronds 40 are secured by wires 42. The wires 42 bias the fronds against
   ridges (24 in Figure 1), which assist in retaining the bamboo fronds 40.          Lower
   portions 44 (shown for clarity) of the bamboo fronds 40 are supported by the
   shoulder portion 26.

                                               -6
           In use, with reference to Figure 3, a water fitting 200 held by a person 210
   wading in water 220 is inserted into the first opening (not shown) of the erosion
   reduction device 100. Water from the water fitting 200 is directed out of the second
   opening (not shown) of the erosion reduction device 100, this directed water assists
 5 in driving the erosion reduction device 100 into sand or silt 230.       The water is
   supplied by a pump 240 worn on the back of the person 210. The bamboo fronds 40
   extend from the sand or silt 230. The water fitting 200 is removed after the erosion
   reduction device has been inserted into the sand or silt 230.
           The bamboo fronds 40 retain sand or silt and can even amass sand or silt,
 0 reducing the amount of erosion that the sand or silt 230 experiences. The bamboo
   fronds 40 also provide a sheltered area where seagrass or other natural vegetation
   can establish. After a period of time, the bamboo fronds 40 and the elongate plug 10
   degrade.    This period of time depends on the body of water in which the erosion
   reduction device 100 is used and can range from a few weeks to a number of
 5 months.
                                        ADVANTAGES
           An advantage of the preferred embodiment of the erosion reduction device
   includes a secure anchoring of the device in silt or sand. Another advantage of the
 0 preferred   embodiment of the erosion reduction device includes the use of
   biodegradable materials to avoid ecological damage caused by non biodegradable
   plastics. A further advantage of the preferred embodiment of the erosion reduction
   device includes the use of materials which degrade over time negating the need to
   remove the erosion device after sand/silt and/or natural vegetation has been
25 established.
                                         VARIATIONS
           While the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative example of this
   invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
30 apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and
   ambit of this invention as is herein set forth.
           Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word
   "comprise" and variations of that word such as "comprises" and "comprising", are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

                                               -7
                                            CLAIMS
   1.     An erosion reduction device having
 5        an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a first opening at a first end fluidly
   connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening adapted to
   receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion located towards
   the second opening; and
          a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug,
 0        wherein the elongate plug is made from a biodegradable material.
   2.     An erosion reduction device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the elongate plug
   is made from PHA plastic.
 5 3.     An erosion reduction device having
          an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a first opening at a first end fluidly
   connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening adapted to
   receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion located towards
   the second opening; and
 0        a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug,
          wherein the plurality of fronds are plant based.
   4.     An erosion reduction device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
   the plurality of fronds are bamboo fronds.
25
   5.     An erosion reduction device having
          an elongate plug, the elongate plug having a tapered first opening at a first
   end fluidly connected to a second opening at a second end thereof, the first opening
   adapted to receive a water hose or water fitting, and an enlarged anchor portion
30 located towards the second opening; and
          a plurality of fronds attached to the elongate plug.

                                1/3
<removed-date>
              10
                         12
                                                   14
<removed-apn>
                   24
                    24
                                              22
                                               26
                   20                         28
                                              18
                                         16
                              Figure 1

                            2/3
<removed-date>
              100
<removed-apn>
                                          40
                                     42
                                      42
                    44
                                     42
                     26              10
                          Figure 2

                      3/3
<removed-date>
              240
<removed-apn>
                               210
                                    200
                                          220
                                      40
                                      100
                                          230
                               10
                    Figure 3

