                                   ABSTRACT
      A method and apparatus for correcting malformed joints,  in
particular the "hammer toe"  contraction of the proximal
interphalangeal joint.  The disclosure comprises a two-component
implant:  a proximal phalanx component and a middle phalanx component.
An endosseous  stem on each component is inserted axially into the end
of a respective host bone and, after insertion, the components   are
attached.   The attached components are held together in various ways,
for example a detent arm/aperture mechanism. Each component can be
cannulated to allow for the passage of a kirschner wire, if
necessary, to  stabilize adjacent  joints such as the proximal
interphalangeal joint.  The bones of the treated joint can be set to
form a desired angle by adjusting the angle   formed by the
corresponding endosseous stems.

                             2/7
                                6
                                      4
            119/129
128                             6
                                             7A
                 FIG. 2                  1
                                        11            A
                                                     S1
                               112 11
         4118
                      120                     122
                                         124
           129FIG.                                3A
128             3134
                               5B
   1307
                        7136
                  138
      5B
      FIG. 3B

          INTERPHALANGEAL JOINT IMPLANT METHODS AND APPARATUS
                        BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian
Application No.   2013206021, the disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.    Most of the disclosure of that  application is
included herein.    However, reference may be made to the specification
of that application as filed to gain further understanding of the
invention claimed herein.
[0002]      This disclosure relates to a method and apparatus for
correcting abnormal   flexion of the  joints of the human foot.   More
particularly, this disclosure relates to a combination of dorsifexion
of the metatarsal/proximal phalangeal joint and plantar flexion of
the proximal interphalangeal joint,    commonly called a hammer toe.
[0003]      The lesser toes of the human   foot are composed of three
bones and contain two    joints. The three toe bones are a proximal
phalanx  (closest to the metatarsal bone),   a middle phalanx, and a
distal phalanx   (at the end of the toe).   The three toe bones are
connected by two toe joints,    a proximal interphalangeal joint   (PIPJ),
which is formed by a distal end of the proximal phalanx and a
proximal portion of the middle phalanx;    and a distal interphalangeal
joint  (DIPJ), distal to the PIPJ and formed by a distal end of the
middle phalanx and a proximal end of the distal phalanx.
[0004]      Contraction of the lesser toes of the foot is a common
pathologic condition due to an    imbalance between the tendons on the
top and bottom of the toe(s).     When an affected toe is able to be
straightened out manually, i.e. by an individual or an eternal force,
it is referred to as a flexible hammer toe.    If left untreated these
flexible contractures will become a fixed deformity know as a rigid
hammer toe, which cannot be put back into normal alignment.      The PIPJ
is more implicated in a hammer toe syndrome deformity then the DIPJ.
[0005]      There are many palliative modalities such as pads    and
various  forms of orthodigital devices used to accommodate toe
deformities.   Those conservative options, however, do not provide an
individual with enough comfort and in some cases are simply illogical
given the fact that various alternative surgical options are
available.
[0006]      Throughout the history of performing toe surgery many
methods have been attempted by surgeons ranging from simple tendon
release, partial   joint excision, full joint excision and, as a final

resort, complete fusion   (arthrodesis) of a joint rendering a straight
toe.   Arthrodesis of the  joint is usually reserved for severe
deformities or in cases where previous non-arthrodesic procedures
were performed but   failed to provide a patient with desired
expectations.
[0007]      In the past some surgeons  fused the PIPJ joint by a simple
end-to-end method.    In this procedure a surgeon resects the articular
cartilage of the end of one toe bone and the base of an adjoining
bone which forms an abnormal joint.    The two ends are approximated to
each other with the expectation that they will fuse together.     An
inherent problem with this method is a high rate of non-union with
possible recurrence of deformity.
[0008]      Another method is to insert a smooth pin or wire that
extends out  of the distal end of the toe.   The wire is used to hold
the ends of the bones in alignment until fusion occurs.    Because
these wires and pins are smooth, however, it is possible for the
joint to distract   leading to a failure or non-union.
[0009]      Additionally, yet another method was developed which
utilized a thin screw inserted from the tip of a toe across the
joint. The purpose of this device was to provide compression which
facilitates end-to-end fusion.    The insertion of a specialized screw
is difficult to perform and presents a possibility of damaging the
DIPJ.   Furthermore, when the pin is removed it requires  a second
surgical procedure.
[0010]      Yet,  another device was developed utilizing "memory" metal
that was  simply inserted into either the DIPJ or PIPJ after resection
of the  joint. These devices are relatively expensive when compared to
pins, wires, or screws and also have been known to sometimes expand
too quickly rending the device ineffective.
[0011]      Finally, a hinged toe fusion device was developed to
replace the PIPJ. Each end of the device was inserted into a
corresponding end of the bones   flanking the PIPJ. A limitation with
this  device is that it is relatively difficult to work with. The two
components are not designed to be easily separated. Also, the device
can be difficult to properly align and can rotate out of the proper
position after insertion.    Also, it does not allow for the additional
use of a pin or wire to be inserted across the metatarsophalangeal
joint  (MPJ), the  joint proximal to the PIPJ, which is sometimes
desirable.

[0012]       The difficulties and limitations suggested in the
preceding are not intended to be exhaustive, but rather are among
many which demonstrate that although significant attention has been
devoted to surgically correcting hammer toe disfigurement,
nevertheless   surgical implants and procedures appearing in the past
will admit to worthwhile improvement.
                   BRIEF SUMMARY OF PREFERED EMBODIMENTS
[0013]       The present invention provides an interphalangeal   joint
implant for correction of abnormal flexion of a lesser human toe by
insertion at a proximal interphalangeal    joint between a distal end of
a proximal phalanx and a proximal end of a corresponding middle
phalanx, said interphalangeal    joint implant comprising:
       a first  component comprising a first base plate and a proximal
      phalanx stem mounted upon said first base plate and being
       operable for insertion into an  interior portion of a distal end
       of a proximal phalanx;
       a second component comprising a second base plate and a middle
      phalanx stem mounted upon said second base plate and being
       operable for insertion into an  interior portion of a proximal
       end of a middle phalanx;  and
       an attachment for joining said first base plate to said second
      base plate to maintain a desired angle between a proximal
      phalanx and a middle phalanx bone and thus    correcting abnormal
       flexion of a lesser human toe.
[0014]       The present invention also provides a prosthetic implant
for correction of abnormal flexion of human    finger joint or a lesser
toe  joint formed by a bone proximal to the   joint and a bone distal to
the  joint comprising:
       a first base plate;
       a first  stem mounted upon said first base plate and being
       operable for insertion into the interior of a distal end of the
      proximal bone;
       a second base plate;
       a second stem mounted upon said second base plate and being
       operable for insertion into the interior of a proximal end of
      the distal bone;   and
       a means  for connecting said first base plate with said second
      base plate   for maintaining a desired flexion of said joint

       formed by the bone proximal to the     joint and a bone distal to
      the   joint.
[0015]       The present invention further provides a method of
correcting abnormal     flexion of a lesser human toe at a proximal
interphalangeal joint between a distal end of a proximal phalanx and
a proximal end of a corresponding middle phalanx comprising:
      making an incision in an area of a proximal interphalangeal
       joint;
       separating the bones    flanking the proximal interphalangeal
       joint;
       removing the articular cartilage of the bones      flanking the
      proximal interphalangeal     joint;
       drilling a centrally located shaft into the distal end of the
      proximal phalanx;
       drilling a centrally located hole into the proximal end of the
      middle phalanx;
       inserting into the proximal phalanx shaft a proximal phananx
       stem which is mounted on a first base plate;
       inserting into the middle phalanx shaft a middle phananx stem
      which is mounted on a second base plate;
       joining said base plates together with an attachment;      and
       closing said incision, wherein said angle is maintained between
      the proximal phalanx and the middle phalanx bones at a preferred
       angle thus   correcting abnormal flexion of the proximal
       interphalangeal joint.
[0016]       The subject disclosure includes advantages of bone fusion
while   simplifying the procedure and decreasing or eliminating
incidences of non-union and non-alignment.        A preferred embodiment
comprises a two-component device including       (1) a proximal phalanx
component and    (2) a middle phalanx component.     The two components are
handled separately during a surgical procedure.        Each is inserted
axially into a respective host bone.       After insertion, the components
are joined.     The attached components are held together in various
ways,   for example a detent arm/aperture mechanism. As the components
are brought together, the arms of one component slide into a central
channel, or cannula, in the other component.       The arms are spring
loaded as they first encounter an inner surface of the cannula and
then spring out when the arms encounter lateral apertures present
further on along the cannula.       Each component can be cannulated to
allow for the passage of a wire, e.g. 0.045 inch kirschner wire        (k-

wire),  which passes through the center to stabilize either the DIPJ
or the MPJ.
 [0017]     An interphalangeal joint implant is inserted using the
following procedure. A surgeon exposes the PIPJ, separates the two
bones making up the   joint and then removes the articular cartilage.
Next, a device,  such as a trephine, is used to "core" the ends of the
bones on each side of the joint.    The trephine removes a central
cylindrical section of bone within the bone shafts which allows    for a
press-fit  junction of the stems of the opposing implant components.
A stem of the proximal implant component is inserted into the
proximal phalanx and a stem of a distal implant component is inserted
into the middle phalanx.    These endosseous stems preferably are non
cylindrical in shape. This will inhibit unintended rotation of the
implant after insertion. If stabilization of an adjacent    joint is
required a k-wire   can be directed from within the  joint out through
the tip of the toe making certain that the proximal end of the wire
will not prevent the fastening together of the two implant
components.   The middle phalanx portion would then be fitted to the
proximal phalanx portion and then the k-wire can be passed through
the MPJ.
                               THE DRAWINGS
 [0018]     Numerous advantages of the present disclosure will become
apparent  from the following detailed description of preferred
embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings
wherein:
 [0019]     FIGURE 1 is an axonometric view of a context of the
disclosure comprising a front portion of a human    foot with some flesh
removed from a lesser second toe to   illustrate severe plantar flexion
of the proximal interphalangeal joint    ("PIPJ") reflecting a rigid
joint deformity commonly known as hammer toe;
 [0020]     FIGURE 2 is an axonometric view of an interphalangeal
joint implant in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
invention;
 [0021]     FIGURES  3A-3B are axonometric views of individual proximal
and distal components of the interphalangeal    joint implant depicted
in Figure 2;
 [0022]     FIGURE 4 is a cross-sectional view taken along section
line 4-4 of Figure 2;

[0023]      FIGURES  5A-5B are cross-sectional views taken along
sections line 5A-5A and 5B-5B in Figures      3A and 3B, respectively;
[0024]      FIGURE  6 is a cross-sectional view taken along section
line 6-6 in Figure 2;
[0025]      FIGURES  7A-7B are a side views taken along section lines
7A-7A and 7B-7B in figures 3A and 3B,      respectively;
[0026]      FIGURE 8 is a top view of the interphalangeal implant
shown in Figure 2;
[0027]      FIGURE  9 is a side view of the interphalangeal implant
depicted in Figure 8.
[0028]      FIGURE 10  is a top view of an alternative preferred
embodiment of the interphalangeal implant;
[0029]      FIGURE 11  is a side view of the interphalangeal implant
depicted in Figure 10 illustrating one of the endosseous stems with
an imaginary central longitudinal axis offset       from the other stem's
axis by a distance "A,"    and by an angle Theta    (e); and
[0030]      FIGURES  12A-E illustrate,    in schematic format, a procedure
for correcting a misaligned PIPJ      (Fig. 12A) where the bones flanking
the PIPJ are separated    (Fig. 12B),   tissue around the PIPJ is removed
(Fig. 12C),  the implant components are inserted, one into each of the
bones  flanking the PIPJ   (Fig. 12D),   and the components of the implant
are joined into an integrated unit      (Fig. 12E).
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Context of the Invention
[0031]      Referring now particularly to the drawings, wherein like
reference characters refer to like parts, and initially to Figure 1,
there will be  seen a schematic illustration of a context of the
subject disclosure-a misaligned interphalangeal joint commonly
referred to as a "Hammer toe."
[0032]      The disclosure is directed to correction of misalignment
between virtually any two bones, but particularly for the flange
bones that make up the five digits      of the foot and hands.   A typical
bone misalignment   is illustrated in Figure 1, with flesh removed from
a second toe for illustrative purposes. Depicted are a metatarsal
100, proximal phalanx 102, middle phalanx 104 and distal phalanx 106
bone segments in a human foot.    As noted above, Figure 1 illustrates a
hammer toe condition characterized by dorsifexion of the
metatarsal/proximal phalangeal    joint 108 and plantar flexion the
proximal interphalangeal    joint  ("PIPJ") 110.    The subject apparatus

and procedure are directed to correction of this abnormal    flexion of
the PIPJ. Although the subject disclosure is directed in particular
to medically correcting hammer toe syndrome it is also useful for
more curved or claw toe maladies   as well.   In this sense the term
hammer toe as used herein includes claw toe, mallet toe and curly toe
conditions. The disclosure also applies to analogous conditions
affecting human   fingers.
Interphalangeal Joint Implant
[0033]      Figure 2 illustrates an axonometric view of the device
with two component parts operably joined together.     Figure 3A is the
proximal phalanx component and Figure 3B is the middle phalanx
component of a human second toe.
[0034]      The proximal phalanx component 112, Figure 3A, is designed
to be  inserted into the distal end of the proximal phalanx.    It
comprises an endosseous stem 114,   116 and a base 118. The stem is
either cylindrical, non-cylindrical or a combination of the two. A
non-cylindrical shape has the advantage that    the stem will not easily
rotate after insertion into the proximal phalanx. The component 112
illustrated in figure 3A combines a cylindrical portion 114 at the
tip of the stem and a non-cylindrical, oval or regular trapezoidal
portion 116 at the base of the stem. The shape need not be oval or
regular trapezoidal. Any shape that   is non-spherical in cross-section
will function to inhibit rotation of the device once    it is inserted
into the bone.    Other measures can be employed to inhibit or prevent
rotation such as the use of adhesives or    surgical cement. Also, the
device can be designed to   screw into place provided one insures that
the device will be in the proper orientation when the base of the
device contacts the end of the bone.
[0035]      Other  structures can be added to the device to inhibit an
untended tendency for the device to   loosen or slide out  from the end
of bone. For example, the device can have regular or irregular
surface protrusions.    Alternatively, the surface of the stem can have
various  structures and shapes that promote tissue in growth such as
interstitial spaces,   ribs, channels, holes, grooves and the like.
[0036]      The proximal phalanx component 126 also contains a base
128. When the component is fully inserted, the base will be flush
against the distal end of the proximal phalanx, in position to
contact the corresponding base of the middle phalanx component
illustrated in Figure 3B.

[0037]      The base can be equipped with a registry structure that
will insure the bases, Figure 3A and Figure 3B, will properly align
when brought  into contact. A preferred registry   structure is
illustrated in Figure 3A, two pins 120 that interact with
correspondingly shaped circular cavities   136 in the base 128 of the
middle phalanx component illustrated in Figure 3B.
[0038]      The middle phalanx component, Figure 3B, designed for
insertion into the proximal end of the middle phalanx, will be
generally smaller than the proximal phalanx component of Figure 3A
but is similar in other respects.    The middle phalanx component will
have an endosseous   stem 130 and a base 128.   The stem can be either
cylindrical, non-cylindrical or a combination of the two,     just as its
counterpart in Figure 3A. The stem illustrated in Figure 3B has a
non-cylindrical, oval shape   130.
[0039]      The middle phalanx component,  like its proximal phalanx
counterpart, can have additional structures that inhibit     (or prevent)
the device  from rotating or otherwise  loosening after it is inserted
into the end of the bone.
[0040]      When the two components are brought together in correct
alignment, a locking mechanism will engage and hold the components
together.   A preferred locking mechanism features lateral detent arms
on one component and a corresponding aperture on the other component.
As the two components are slid together the arms are spring loaded
then, when they encounter apertures on the corresponding component,
the arms  spring out  and lock the two components together.    An example
of this preferred locking mechanism is seen in Figures 4,     5A and 5B,
which are cross-sections of Figures   2, 3A and 3B respectively. Figure
5B illustrates detent arms 132 which have a bulge at the head 134.
The arms are designed so that they can be compressed into an opening
122  (Fig. 3A) in the complementary component. Then the arms will
spring out when the bulge   134 lines up with the mating aperture 122
in the complementary component.    The two components locked together
can be seen in Figure 2 and Figure 4 which is a cross-section of
Figure 2 taken along line 4.
[0041]      The locking mechanism can have an additional design
function which allows the two components to properly align and
maintain a proper alignment. This is illustrated in Figures     6, 7A and
7B, which are cross-sections of Figures 2,    3A and 3B taken along line
6,  7a and 7B, respectively. The arms have a taper 132 as shown in
Figure 7B that  is sized to completely fill a complementary taper on

said parallel inner surfaces   124 shown in Figure 7A.   The taper
insures proper alignment and prevents rotation of the components
after the components are locked together as    shown in Figure  6.
[0042]      Other  structures and mechanical components in addition to
the one illustrated here can perform the function of locking the two
components together. These can be differently shaped prongs,     flexible
links or any other type of arm or protrusion that extends from one
component to the other. The structures can be any male/female pair of
mating structure that, when the pairs    contact each other, lock the
two components together.
[0043]      Alternatively, the structure used to lock the components
together can be extra elements   such as various epoxies,   adhesives,
magnets or the addition of a third structure specifically designed
for locking, such as a clip.    This third structure would be moved
into position and interact with structures    on both pieces and keep
them together.    Of course any common locking mechanism will function
with this device such as screws, pins, rivets,    nuts and bolts and the
like. A preferred locking structure is a detent arm/aperture
mechanism.
[0044]      Under  certain conditions it may become desirable to remove
the implant or merely separate the two components    after they have
been  joined. For this purpose  a separation notch 119/129 is provided
as shown in Figure 2.    The notch is shown in the separated components
119,  129 in Figures 3A and 3B. The surgeon can insert   into the notch
a surgical tool that   creates leverage and mechanical advantage
allowing the surgeon to pry apart the two components.
[0045]      The purpose of the implants   is to treat bones  in an
abnormal and sometimes dysfunctional position, such as a hammer toe,
and to reestablish function.    The bones must function properly
throughout active motion of the foot as well as when the foot is at
rest.   To a first approximation, the functional position is to
straighten the PIPJ joint, that is,    the longitudinal axis of the
proximal phalanx is in axial alignment with the longitudinal axis      of
the middle phalanx.    This may not,  in practice, be the optimal
position for the PIPJ joint.   In another preferred embodiment, a
slight angle between these bones may be more functional for a
patient.   In this  case the implants  can be altered so that the PIPJ
varies from straight to   15' from linear. A preferable angle is 10'
from linear. These embodiments are illustrated in Figures     8 through
11.   Figures 8 and 9 illustrate a device designed to produce a

perfectly straight    (0' angle) PIPJ  joint. Figure 8 is a top view of
the device.    Figure 9 is a side view.    Compare these to Figures  10
and 11, which illustrate a device in which the PIPJ joint will be
offset from perfectly straight by the angle     "e" which, in this
example, is 10'.    Figure 10  is a top view and Figure 11  is a side
view.
[0046]       Notice that the middle phalanx component 218 in Figure 11
is offset from the proximal phalanx component 210,     212 by a distance
of "A."  This  offset is provided to deal with an issue arising    from
cannulation of the device.     When the device is straight, that is,
designed to generate a 0' angle for the PIPJ     joint, a cannulation
will pass   straight down the central axis of both components    of the
device.   The cannulation will enter at the proximal end of the
proximal phalanx component and exit out the distal end of the middle
phalanx component. When, however, the device is angled a cannulation
entering at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx component may
exit out the side of the middle phalanx component,     rather than the
end.
[0047]       This problem is resolved as shown in Figure 11. An offset
will allow the cannulation to continue     straight through the middle
phalanx component and exit out the end.      In Figure 11 the central
longitudinal axis of the proximal phalanx component is shown.       Note
that  this axis is extended down the length of the middle phalanx
component 218 and exits through the end of the middle phalanx
component. This   is because the middle phalanx component is offset
dorsally   (in figure 11 this  is to the left) by the distance "A."     If
the middle phalanx component were not dorsally offset, the central
axis line would exit on the dorsal     (left) side of the middle phalanx
component rather than out the end, as shown. Thus, this     offset allows
a straight   cannulation to pass from one end of the two component
device to the other, even    if the central axes of the two components
are not collinear.
[0048]       While a preferred embodiment of the device is use in the
PIPJ to correct hammer toe, the device is not limited solely to use
with the lesser toes but can also be used in fingers as well as the
thumb and great toe.     Indeed, variations of the device can treat a
wide variety of maladies related to     improper bone alignment.   A non
exhaustive list of examples    includes:  flexible and rigid hammer toe,
deviated/crooked toes or fingers     (caused by either physical injury or

inherited) arthritic joints,    claw toe, mallet toe and long toes
requiring shortening    (e.g. Morton's Toe).
[0049]      A preferred material for the implant is medical grade
titanium.   However, other medical grade materials can also be used.
Method of Treatment for Abnormal Flexion
[0050]      As discussed previously, hammer toe malady consists of a
combination of dorsifexion of the metatarsal/proximal phalangeal
joint 108  (Fig. 1) and plantar flexion of the PIPJ 110     (Figs. 1,
12A).   It is treated by correcting the PIPJ 110 misalignment, as
illustrated in Figure 1 and Figures    12A-12E.    Figures 12A-E
illustrate the bones   flanking the PIPJ in isolation. This series of
figures outline a preferred method of use of the interphalangeal
joint implant in which the PIPJ 110    is targeted for correction.    In a
typical operation, an excision is made to expose an area surrounding
the PIPJ 110, the distal end of proximal phalanx 102 and the proximal
end of the middle phalanx 104.     These bones are then separated, as
shown in Figure 12B, and the articular cartilage on either side of
the  joint is removed.    If the ends of the bones  300, 304 are
malformed or damaged the ends of the bones may be osteotomized to
create a proper surface for the next step in the procedure as      shown
in Figure 12C.
[0051]      Next,  central shafts 302,  306 are introduced into the ends
of the bones using standard methods. For example, the ends of the two
bones  can be "cored" using a trephine, a cylindrical drill with a
hollow center.    The specifics of the operation are surgeon's choice.
For example, to prevent problematic "drift" of the trephine as the
teeth first contact the bone, a pilot hole can be drilled first.       A
trephine with a central drill guide is used as drill guide is
inserted into the pilot hole.     As long as the drill guide remains in
the guide hole, the trephine will remain centered at the proper
location during the drilling operation.
[0052]      After the ends of the bones   300,  304 are cored to form a
central channel to the desired depth 302,    306 the two  components of
the implants  112,  126 are inserted into the bones as shown in Figure
12D. A proximal phalanx component    112 is designed for insertion into
the distal end 300 of the proximal phalanx 102 and a middle phalanx
component 126 is designed for insertion into the proximal end 304      of
the middle phalanx 104.

[0053]      The surgeon should drill the channels   so that they form a
tight  fit with the inserts.   If there is any doubt the surgeon should
err on the side of drilling a channel that   is slightly too large.
After insertion, tissue ingrowth can, so some extent,     fill in and
replace the missing bone tissue to produce   a lasting phalangeal   joint
connection.
[0054]      The distal interphalangeal joint   (DIPJ) 111,  the joint
between the middle phalanx and the distal phalanx,    can also be
affected by bone misalignment   and require stabilization. In this case
Kirschner wire   (k-wire) is employed.  K-wire is directed from within
the PIPJ out through the tip of the toe making certain that the
proximal end of the wire will not prevent the fastening together of
the two implant components.    When properly installed, k-wire passes
through the center of the implant, the middle phalanx and the distal
phalanx. The k-wire typically exits the distal end of the distal
phalanx. When installed in this manner, the k-wire in combination
with the implant will stabilize the DIPJ 111 as well as the PIPJ 110.
[0055]      The method functions by restoring a preferred angle,    e,
between the central axis of the proximal phalanx and the central axis
of the middle phalanx. The angle   e is defined as the degree by which
the imaginary central axis of the middle phalanx stem is pointed
downward with respect to the imaginary central axis of the proximal
phalanx.   In one preferred embodiment  e is zero, that   is, the two
bones are aligned linearly. In another embodiment    e can be any angle
between zero and approximately fifteen degrees.    In a preferred
embodiment  e is approximately ten degrees.
[0056]      The preferred angles above will be achieved by designing
the interphalangeal   joint implant so that these same angles are
present between the corresponding parts of the implant.      The
imaginary central axises   of the middle phalanx stem and that of the
proximal phalanx stem will form the angle   e.
[0057]      In the specification and claims the expression
"approximately" or   "generally" are intended to mean at or near, and
not exactly, such that the exact location or configuration is not
considered critical unless specifically stated.
[0058]      In the claims in some instances reference has been made to
use of the term "means" followed by a statement of    function.   When
that  convention is used applicant intends the means to include the
specific  structural components recited in the specification,
including the drawings, and in addition other structures and

components that will be recognized by those of skill  in the art as
equivalent structures for performing the recited function and not
merely structural equivalents  of the structures as specifically shown
and described in the drawings  and written specification.   The term
"attachment" is intended to mean the physical structure disclosed in
the specification and also other designs to perform a permanent or
reversible connection function  such as for example surgical cement,
screws,  clips, detents, and other attachment structures.
[0059]      In describing the invention, reference has been made to
preferred embodiments. Those skilled in the art however, and familiar
with the disclosure of the subject invention, may recognize
additions, deletions, substitutions, modifications and/or other
changes which will fall within the scope of the invention as defined
in the following claims.
[0060]      In the claims which follow and in the preceding
description of the invention, except where the context requires
otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises"  or "comprising" is used
in an  inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various  embodiments of the invention.
[0061]      It is to be understood that,    if any prior art
publication is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of
the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
other country.

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
      1.    An interphalangeal joint implant for correction of
abnormal flexion of a lesser human toe by insertion at a proximal
interphalangeal joint between a distal end of a proximal phalanx and
a proximal end of a corresponding middle phalanx, said
interphalangeal joint implant comprising:
      a first  component comprising a first base plate and a proximal
      phalanx stem mounted upon said first base plate and being
      operable for insertion into an   interior portion of a distal end
      of a proximal phalanx;
      a second component comprising a second base plate and a middle
      phalanx stem mounted upon said second base plate and being
      operable for insertion into an   interior portion of a proximal
      end of a middle phalanx;  and
      an attachment for joining said first base plate to said second
      base plate to maintain a desired angle between a proximal
      phalanx and a middle phalanx bone and thus   correcting abnormal
      flexion of a lesser human toe.
      2.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 1
wherein said proximal phalanx stem further comprises:
      a cylindrical portion of said proximal phalanx stem;   and
      a generally regular trapezoid portion of   said proximal phalanx
      stem having generally arcuate sides,    joined to said first base
      plate and extending to the cylindrical portion of said proximal
      phalanx stem.
      3.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 2
wherein said first and second components further comprise:
      a central longitudinal cannelation.
      4.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 3
wherein said attachment further comprises:
      one component wherein said cannelation has two flat mutual
      parallel inner surfaces  for proper orientation of the two
      components;  and
      said other component having two flat mutual parallel arms with
      flat outer surfaces configured to interact with the two flat

      mutually parallel inner surfaces for proper orientation of the
      two components.
      5.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 4
wherein said attachment further comprises:
      said parallel arms having a taper that is sized to completely
      fill a complementary taper on said parallel inner surfaces
      wherein said taper prevents rotation of the components after
      attachment.
      6.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 3
further comprising:
      said attachment having detent arms integrally connected to,    and
      extending from, one component;
      said arms being spring loaded when inserted into   said other
      component;  and
      opposing apertures  fashioned through said other component;   and
      said arms lock when they reach the apertures in said other
      component.
      7.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 6
wherein:
      said parallel inner surfaces are located on   said first component
      and said parallel arms  are located on said second component.
      8.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 2
wherein:
      said implant further comprises surface structures that   allow for
      tissue ingrowth.
      9.    The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 7
wherein:
      said surface structures are selected from the group consisting
      of interstitial spaces, ribs,   channels, holes and grooves.
      10.   The interphalangeal  joint implant as defined in claim 3
further comprising:
      said attachment having detent arms integrally connected to,    and
      extending from, one component;

      said arms being spring loaded when inserted into     said other
      component;  and
      said arms lock when they reach apertures     in said other
      component.
      11.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 10
further comprising:
      said detent arms are located on said first     component and said
      apertures are located on said second component.
      12.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 1
wherein said bases    further comprise:
      said first base and said second base include male and female
      registry structures configured to insure proper alignment     of the
      components when the components are     joined.
      13.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 12
wherein said registry structures     further comprise:
      said male registry structure is a pin extending from one of the
      bases and said female registry structure is a complementary hole
      in the other base.
      14.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 1
further comprising:
      said proper angle is maintained by having the imaginary central
      longitudinal axis of    said proximal phalanx stem being coaxial
      with the imaginary central longitudinal axis of said middle
      phalanx stem.
      15.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 1
further comprising:
      said proper angle is maintained by having an imaginary central
      longitudinal axis of    said middle phalanx stem offset by a
      patient preferred angle    e with respect to an imaginary central
      longitudinal axis of    said proximal phalanx stem, wherein angle  e
      is within the range of     0' to 15'.
      16.   The interphalangeal    joint implant as defined in claim 15
wherein angle  e is approximately 10'.

      17.   A prosthetic implant for correction of abnormal    flexion of
human  finger  joint or a lesser toe  joint formed by a bone proximal to
the joint and a bone distal to the    joint comprising:
      a first base plate;
      a first  stem mounted upon said first base plate and being
      operable for insertion into the interior of a distal end of the
      proximal bone;
      a second base plate;
      a second stem mounted upon said second base plate and being
      operable for insertion into the interior of a proximal end of
      the distal bone;   and
      a means  for connecting said first base plate with said second
      base plate   for maintaining a desired flexion of said joint
      formed by the bone proximal to the    joint and a bone distal to
      the  joint.
      18.   A method of correcting abnormal flexion of a lesser human
toe at a proximal interphalangeal joint between a distal end of a
proximal phalanx and a proximal end of a corresponding middle phalanx
comprising:
      making an incision in an area of a proximal interphalangeal
      joint;
      separating the bones   flanking the proximal interphalangeal
      joint;
      removing the articular cartilage of the bones    flanking the
      proximal interphalangeal   joint;
      drilling a centrally located shaft into the distal end of the
      proximal phalanx;
      drilling a centrally located hole into the proximal end of the
      middle phalanx;
      inserting into the proximal phalanx shaft a proximal phananx
      stem which is mounted on a first base plate;
      inserting into the middle phalanx shaft a middle phananx stem
      which is mounted on a second base plate;
      joining said base plates together with an attachment;    and
      closing said incision, wherein said angle is maintained between
      the proximal phalanx and the middle phalanx bones at a preferred
      angle thus   correcting abnormal flexion of the proximal
      interphalangeal joint.

      19.   The method of correcting abnormal  flexion of a lesser
human toe as defined in claim 18 wherein said step of   joining said
base plates together comprises:
      establishing said preferred angle  such that an imaginary central
      axis of the middle phalanx stem is collinear with the   imaginary
      central axis  of the proximal phalanx stem.
      20.   The method of correcting abnormal  flexion of a lesser
human toe as defined in claim 18 wherein said step of   joining said
base plates together comprises:
      establishing said preferred angle  such that an imaginary central
      axis of the middle phalanx stem is inclining approximately 10'
      downward with respect to an imaginary central axis of the
      proximal phalanx stem and is offset upward with respect to the
      proximal phalanx stem.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

