ABSTRACT
A foldable personal such as a tricycle which can be convertible into a stroller, is configured
for accommodating a child therein and for preventing, when desired, the child from being
able to steer the vehicle, vehicle having an operational state and a storage state, in which it
can take an extremely compact form. The vehicle has a longitudinal axis lying in its vertical
plane of symmetry and having a horizontal reference plane perpendicular to the plane of
symmetry, and it takes its compact form in the storage state both in the direction along its
longitudinal axis and in the directions perpendicular to this axis both along the plane of
symmetry and perpendicular to the plane of symmetry.
Fig. 1

I/ I I
          00
        C),
       LL        CU-
        x
             1-J

                                                 -1
                               FOLDABLE PERSONAL VEHICLE
TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
[0001]     The subject matter of the present application relates to foldable personal vehicles,
in particular in the field of children's toys and vehicle products.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Foldable personal vehicles such as scooters, vehicles and bicycles are well known
for both adults and children. For children, it may sometimes be beneficial that the vehicle can
be folded for compact storing and carrying.
[0004]     There are known a great variety of such foldable vehicles, centered around two
basic principles: disassembly and folding. Under the first group, the vehicle is disassembled
to basic parts, which can be fitted compactly together. Under the second group, most parts of
the vehicle maintain their inter-connections but can assume an operational state, in which
they function as a vehicle and a storage, folded state, in which the orientation and/or position
of the parts changes with respect to one another.
[0005]     Vehicles of the above second group are described, for example in US 6152473,
US 6530589, and http://www.iimo-life.com/vehicle2 01.htm, the latter being a product sold
as IMO Folding Tricycle.
[0006]     The presently disclosed subject matter refers to vehicles of the second group
described above.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
[0007]     The subject matter of the present application refers to a foldable personal vehicle
having an operational state and a storage state, in which it can take an extremely compact
form. The vehicle has a longitudinal axis lying in its vertical plane of symmetry and having a
horizontal reference plane perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, and it takes its compact
form in the storage state both in the direction along its longitudinal axis and in the directions

                                                 -2
perpendicular to this axis both along the plane of symmetry and a vertical plane
perpendicular to the plane of symmetry.
[0008]     In accordance with a first aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter, the
above vehicle can comprise:
           a body member having an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
           a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, the front bar being at least indirectly
pivotally articulated to the body member adjacent the front end thereof to take an operational
and a storage orientation;
           a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg distal end with a rear wheel
and a leg proximal end, at which the leg is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side
surface of the body member to take an operational and a storage orientation, at least one of
the legs having a connection area between the leg proximal end and the leg distal end; and
           at least one connection member connecting at least indirectly the front bar with the
           connection area of at least one of the legs so that pivoting the front bar between its
operational and storage orientations causes the at least one connection member to pivot the
rear legs along the respective rear side surface of the body member, between their
respective operational and storage orientations.
[0009]     Due to the pivotal articulation of the rear legs' proximal ends to the right and left
rear side surfaces of the body member and the use of the above connection area/s and
connection member/s for such articulation, the rear legs of the vehicle can be free of any
common elements extending therebetween at locations thereon spaced from the legs'
proximal ends, for pivotally connecting the legs to the body member. This allows the rear
legs' pivoting angle to be so large that, in the storage state of the vehicle, they can take a
position, in which at least a majority of the area of each leg overlaps with at least a majority
of the area of the body member, as seen in a side view of the vehicle, thereby allowing to
essentially reduce dimensions of the vehicle in this state both along the longitudinal axis of
the vehicle and perpendicular to this axis along its plane of symmetry. This means that in the
storage state of the vehicle each rear leg can be fully or almost fully coextensive with the
body member at least along a majority of their longitudinal dimensions, e.g. each rear leg can
have its distal end close to the front end of the body member to the extent that this end (not
including the associated rear wheel) does not essentially protrude frontward from the front
end of the body member. If in this case the front bar is of the kind that in its storage

                                                  -3
orientation the front wheel is disposed in front of the body member, at least a majority of
each rear leg with the associated rear wheel, as seen in the side view of the vehicle in its
storage state, can be accommodated between the body member's rear end and the front
wheel, allowing thereby to essentially reduce the length of the vehicle in this state along its
longitudinal axis.
[0010]     In view of the above, each leg can have such shape and width relative to those of
the body member that, in the storage state of the vehicle as seen in its side view, they can
overlap not only along a majority of their lengths as described above but also along a
majority of their heights, i.e. in the direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and along
the plane of symmetry, allowing to essentially reduce the overall height of the vehicle in this
direction in the storage state.
[0011]     The pivotal articulation of each of the right and left rear legs of the vehicle relative
to the corresponding rear side surface of the body member can be provided by means of a
corresponding articulation axle having an outer portion protruding from the associated rear
side surface of the body member and freely received in a through-channel formed at the
proximal end of the rear leg, which extends between inner and outer side surfaces of the rear
leg. The articulation axles can each be unitarily formed with the body member or fixedly
mounted thereto by means of an inner portion of the axle. In any case, the outer portion of
the each axle, i.e. its portion protruding from the associated rear side surface of the body
member, can be configured to enter the channel from the inner side surface of the leg at its
proximal end and fixedly engage, with its axle free end, a stopper disposed adjacent the
outer side surface of the leg, so as to allow pivoting of the leg about the axle while preventing
the leg from being dissembled from the axle. This can be done, for example, by the axle
engagement end being configured to be threaded into a corresponding nut, which constitutes
the stopper and is received within a pocket in the outer side surface of the leg at its proximal
end.
[0012]     Alternatively, each articulation axle can protrude from the inner side surface of the
corresponding rear leg at its proximal end, being unitarily formed or fixedly mounted thereto,
and can be pivotally received within the body member at the corresponding rear side surface
thereof.
[0013]     The right and left articulation axles can be spaced from the plane of symmetry of
the vehicle or meet thereat. In the latter case, the two articulation axles can be formed as a

                                                 -4
single axle body having a central inner portion disposed within the body member and two
lateral outer portions protruding from the rear side surfaces thereof as described above.
[0014]     The inner and outer portions of each of the articulation axles can be collinear and
extend along a single rear pivot axis or they can be angled with respect to each other.
[0015]     The articulation axles of the two rear legs, or at least their outer portions, can
extend along their respective rear pivot axes at a non-zero angle therebetween, each axis
intersecting the rear side surface of the body member at a respective right and left rear
articulation point.
[0016]     The rear pivot axes of the two legs can each form an acute angle with the
reference plane when seen in the rear view of the vehicle. This can allow obtaining an
increased spacing between the rear legs' distal ends in their operational orientation relative
to that, which these legs would have with the pivot axes lying in a plane parallel to the
reference plane.
[0017]      In addition or alternatively, each of the right and left rear pivot axes can be oriented
at an acute angle with respect to the plane of symmetry of the vehicle. In this case, the rear
legs' pivoting about the rear pivot axes from the operational to the storage orientation can
allow their distal ends to get closer to the plane of symmetry, e.g. to become spaced from
this plane to the same or about the same extent as their proximal ends, thereby improving
the 'storage state' compactness of the vehicle in the direction perpendicular to the plane of
symmetry.
[0018]      In case the pivot axes form the acute angles both with the plane of symmetry and
with the plane perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, the above mentioned 'storage state'
compactness is achieved in spite of the increased spacing between the rear legs' distal ends
in the operational state of the vehicle.
[0019]     The body member can have a front body portion with its right and left front side
surfaces and a rear body portion with its right and left rear side surfaces. The right and left
front side surfaces can be disposed closer to the plane of symmetry than the rear right and
left side surfaces, meaning that the rear body portion can be wider than the front body
portion in the direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry.

                                                  -5
[0020]      In addition, the rear portion of the body member can have a converging
configuration as seen in at least one of its plan and rear views, provided by the
corresponding orientation of the right and left rear side surfaces of the rear body portion. In
this case, the inner side surface of each rear leg adjacent its proximal end can be oriented in
the same way as, and be coextensive with, the corresponding rear side surface of the body
member, so that these surfaces can be in intimate contact with each other in both the
storage and the operational state of the vehicle. For example, the orientation of each of the
right and left couples of the contacting rear side surface of the body member and inner side
surface of the rear leg at its proximal end can be such as to provide one or both of the above
acute angles of the right and left pivot axes, in which case these axes can be perpendicular
to the corresponding contacting surfaces.
[0021]     The body member can be in the form of a unitary body or it can be assembled from
a number of elements. For example, these elements can include right and left body halves
assembled so that their rims meet at the plane of symmetry of the vehicle and so as to define
therebetween an at least partially hollow interior.
[0022]     The front bar can extend along a front bar axis between a front wheel end of the
front bar associated with the front wheel, and a handlebar end associated with handlebars.
The front bar axis can form an angle with the longitudinal axis of the vehicle in the
operational orientation of the bar taken by it in the operational state of the vehicle, which is
essentially greater than that in the storage orientation of the front bar taken by it in the
storage state of the vehicle. Specifically, the arrangement can be such that in the storage
orientation of the front bar, the front bar axis forms with the longitudinal axis an angle not
greater than 25 deg., more particularly, not greater than 20 deg., and still more particularly
not greater than 15 deg. Optionally, the front bar axis can be parallel or almost parallel to the
longitudinal axis in the storage state of the vehicle.
[0023]     The front bar can constitute a part of a front assembly, which further comprises an
articulation member, by virtue of which the front bar is pivotally articulated to the front end of
the body member about a front pivot axis, and which is connected to the connection
member/s. The front pivot axis can be spaced from the front bar axis so that in the
operational orientation of the front bar in the operational state of the vehicle, the front bar is
disposed in front of the body member, and in its storage orientation in the storage state of the
vehicle, the front bar is disposed above and extends along the upper surface of the body
member along at least a majority of the length of the front bar.

                                                -6
[0024]     By virtue of the above configuration, the front bar can be so oriented in the storage
state of the vehicle as to be upwardly spaced from the longitudinal axis to a distance shorter
than that of the highest point of the vehicle, other than any point of the front bar itself. This
highest point can be, for example, the highest point of the front wheel and/or the seat in the
storage state of the vehicle.
[0025]     The articulating member can have a front-bar associated portion, which embraces
the front bar in a manner allowing the front bar to revolve about the front bar axis, a rear-legs
associated portion, to which the at least one connection member is attached at its end
opposite the end, at which it is attached to the connection area/s of the rear leg/s, and a
body-member associated portion, at which the articulating member is pivotally articulated to
the front end of the body member.
[0026]     The at least one connection member can be made of a rigid material so that its
length is maintained constant during operation of the vehicle and when the state of the
vehicle is changed. More particularly, the connection member can be rigid enough to be able,
when pushed by the articulating member, to push accordingly the rear legs from their storage
orientation to their operational orientation. The vehicle can comprise two such connection
members, right and left, each connecting the articulating member with the connection area of
the respective right and left rear leg.
[0027]     The vehicle can further comprise pedals detachably mountable to the front wheel
or integrally assembled therewith.
[0028]     The vehicle can further be configured for adjusting the position of the seat along
the body member.
[0029]     The vehicle can be configured for allowing its user occupying the seat, to steer the
vehicle by his own or preventing the user from such steering, while allowing the vehicle to be
steered from its rear via a steering handle operated by another person. In this case, the
vehicle can have one or more of the following features:
           a non-integral design of the front bar, whose upper and lower portions can be
locked to each other to behave as a single integral unit steerable by operating the
handlebars, and unlocked from each other allowing the lower portion to be steered by a
separate steering mechanism not including the upper portion, and allowing a desired
functionality of the upper portion without having any influence on the steering of the lower
portion;

                                                 -7
            a front bar locking clamp for locking at least at least an upper portion the front bar
to an element of the vehicle, such as e.g. its securing frame, which is not movable when in
the operational state of the vehicle, to prevent the possibility of rotating the front bar or its
upper portion about the front bar axis by operating its handlebars;
            a foldable rear steering mechanism for use with a rotatable rear steering handle
when mounted to the rear end of the body member, the mechanism connecting the handle
with the front bar or at least its lower portion so that manipulation of the handle causes the
front bar or its lower portion to rotate about the front bar axis for steering the vehicle;
            a footrest fixedly mountable at least indirectly to the body member at a location
closer to the seat than the front wheel; this location can be at the articulating member, more
particularly at its body-member associated portion or its rear-legs associated portion or
between these two portions; the footrest can be constituted by the above pedals, when
detached from the front wheel.
[0030]     The vehicle can have a steering mechanism of any design allowing the front bar
lower portion to be pivoted between its operational and storage orientations. According to
one example of such design, the steering mechanism can comprise the following elements:
            a front rotation member fixedly mounted to the front bar;
            a rear rotatable port located at the rear end of the body member and configured for
fixedly receiving therein the rear steering handle so that rotation of the handle about the
handle axis causes the port to rotate accordingly; and
            at least one pair of cable sections including a right cable section and a left cable
section, each extending between the front rotation member and the port and being so
connected thereto that rotation of the port in different directions causes it to pull the left or
right section and such pulling yields the rotational movement of the front rotation member
and subsequently at least a lower portion of the front bar, wherein the right and left cable
sections are configured for bending at a location thereof disposed in the vicinity of the front
pivot axis.
[0031]     The right and left cable sections can extend along and within the body member of
the vehicle along a majority of their length. The right and left cable sections can be parts of
one cable fixedly attached to the front rotation member and to the rotation port.
[0032]      In accordance with another aspect of the subject matter of the present application,
the vehicle generally described in the first paragraph of the GENERAL DESCRIPTION
section, can comprise:

                                                  -8
            a body member having an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, the front bar being at least indirectly
pivotally articulated to the body member adjacent its front end, to take operational and
storage orientations;
            a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg proximal end and a leg distal
end to which a rear wheel is mounted;
            a right and a left rear pivot axis, about which the corresponding right or left rear leg
is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side surface of the body member to take an
operational and a storage orientation, each of the rear pivot axes being oriented at an acute
angle to the plane of symmetry of the vehicle in its plan view so that the rear legs' pivoting
about the rear pivot axes from their operational to their storage orientation allows their distal
ends to get closer to the plane of symmetry, e.g. to become spaced from this plane to a
lesser extent in their storage orientation than in their operational orientation, and, optionally,
become spaced from this plane to the same or about the same extent as their proximal ends.
[0033]      The vehicle in accordance with this aspect of the presently disclosed subject
matter can have any of the features specified above with respect to the previously described
aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter in any combination thereof.
[0034]      In accordance with a further aspect of the subject matter of the present application,
the vehicle generally described in the first paragraph of the GENERAL DESCRIPTION
section, can comprise:
            a body member comprising an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, the front bar being at least indirectly
pivotally articulated to the body member adjacent its front end to take operational and
storage orientations;
            a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg proximal end and a leg distal
end to which a rear wheel is mounted;
            a right and a left rear pivot axis, about which the corresponding right or left rear leg
is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side surface of the body member to take
operational and storage orientations, each of the rear pivot axes being oriented at an acute

                                                   -9
angle with respect to the reference plane in the vehicle's rear view, so as to obtain an
increased spacing between the rear legs' distal ends in their operational orientation relative
to that, which the legs would have with the pivot axes lying in a plane parallel to the
reference plane.
[0035]      The vehicle in accordance with this aspect of the presently disclosed subject
matter can have any of the features specified above with respect to the previously described
aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter, in any combination thereof.
[0036]      In accordance with yet another aspect of the subject matter of the present
application matter, the vehicle generally described in the first paragraph of the GENERAL
DESCRIPTION section, can comprise:
            a body member having a front portion and a rear portion;
            a front bar pivotally articulated at least indirectly to the front portion of the body via
a front pivot axis and holding a front wheel of the vehicle, so as to be pivoted between its
operational orientation and storage orientations;
            two rear legs each pivotally articulated to the rear portion of the body via a rear
pivot axis to take operational and storage orientations, and holding a rear wheel of the
vehicle;
            a rotatable rear steering port configured to fixedly receive therein a rear steering
handle for using said handle when the vehicle is in its operational state;
            a steering mechanism connecting said port with the front bar so that rotation of the
port by the handle causes at least a lower portion of the front bar to rotate for steering the
vehicle when in its operational state, the steering mechanism comprising at least one
steering element extending at least partially within the body member and configured to be
bent in the vicinity of the front pivot axis, when the front bar is pivoted from its operational
orientation to its storage orientation.
[0037]      The steering mechanism can further comprise a front rotation member fixedly
mounted to the front bar, and a pair of bendable right and left cable sections constituting the
steering elements, each extending between the front rotation member and the port and so
connected thereto that rotation of the port clockwise or counterclockwise causes the port to
pull the respective right or left section, and such pulling yields the rotational movement of the
front rotation member and subsequently of the front bar. The right and left cable sections can
extend along a majority of their length within the body member and are each configured to be
bent in the vicinity of the front pivot axis.

                                                 - 10
[0038]     The vehicle in accordance with this aspect of the presently disclosed subject
matter can have any of the features specified above with respect to the previously described
aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter, in any combination thereof.
[0039]     According to a still further aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter, the
vehicle generally described in the first paragraph of the GENERAL DESCRIPTION section,
can be convertible into a stroller configured for preventing the child, when desired, from
being able to steer the vehicle, the vehicle comprising
           a body member having a front portion and a rear portion;
           a front bar pivotally articulated at least indirectly to the front portion of the body via
a front pivot axis so as to be pivoted between its operational orientation and storage
orientations, and holding a front wheel of the vehicle to which a pair of pedals can be or are
mounted;
           two rear legs each pivotally articulated to the rear portion of the body via a rear
pivot axis to take operational and storage orientations, and holding a rear wheel of the
vehicle;
           the vehicle further having any one, any two, any three or all of the following
features:
           a non-integral design of the front bar, whose upper and lower portions can be
locked to each other to behave as a single integral unit steerable by operating the
handlebars, and unlocked from each other allowing the lower portion to be steered by a
separate steering mechanism not including the upper portion, and allowing a desired
functionality of the upper portion without having any influence on the steering of the lower
portion;
           a front bar locking clamp for locking at least an upper portion of the front bar to an
element of the vehicle, such as e.g. its securing frame, which is not movable when in the
operational state of the vehicle, to prevent the possibility of rotating the front bar or its upper
portion about the front bar axis by operating its handlebars;
           a foldable rear steering mechanism for use with a rotatable rear steering handle
when mounted to the rear end of the body member, the mechanism connecting the handle
with the front bar so that manipulation of the handle causes at least a lower portion of the
front bar to rotate about the front bar axis for steering the vehicle; and
           a footrest fixedly mountable at least indirectly to the body member at a location
closer to the seat than the front wheel; this location can be at the articulating member, more
particularly at its body-member associated portion or its rear-legs associated portion or
between these two portions; the footrest can be constituted by pedals, when detached from
the front wheel.

                                               - 11
[0040]     The vehicle in accordance with this aspect of the presently disclosed subject
matter can have any of the features specified above with respect to the previously described
aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter, in any combination thereof.
[0041]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0042]     In order to better understand the subject matter that is disclosed herein and to
exemplify how it may be carried out in practice, embodiments will now be described, by way
of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0043]     Fig. 1A is schematic perspective view of a foldable tricycle in accordance with one
embodiment of the subject matter of the present application, shown in an operational state
thereof;
[0044]     Fig. 1B is another schematic perspective view of the tricycle shown in Fig. 1A, with
its seat arrangement being removed;
[0045]     Figs. 1C and 1D are respective schematic side and front views of the tricycle
shown in Fig. 1A;
[0046]     Fig. 1E and 1F are respective schematic plan and rear views of the tricycle shown
in Figs. 1A to 1E;
[0047]     Fig. 1G is the same plan view of the tricycle as in Fig. 1E but without its seat and
securing frame;
[0048]     Fig. 1H is the same perspective view of the tricycle as in Fig. 1B, with its rear legs
being dissembled;
[0049]     Figs. 2A to 2E schematically illustrate the process of folding a tricycle as shown in
Figs. 1A to 1E for bringing it from the operational state shown in Fig. 2A into its storage state
shown in Fig. 2E; and

                                                 - 12
[0050]      Fig. 3A is a schematic plan view of the tricycle shown in Fig. 2E;
[0051]      Fig. 3B is a schematic plan view of the a body member and rear legs of the tricycle
shown in Fig. 3A;
[0052]      Fig. 3C is a schematic side view of the tricycle shown in Fig. 2E; and
[0053]      Fig. 3D is the same view of the tricycle as shown in Fig. 3C, but without its right
rear leg and wheel;
[0054]      Fig. 3E is the same view of the tricycle as shown in Fig. 3C, but without its front
assembly and its rear wheels;
[0055]      Figs. 4A and 4B are perspective and side views, respectively, of a foldable tricycle
according to another embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter;
[0056]      Figs. 5A and 5B are respective perspective and partially exploded schematic views
of a foldable tricycle according to a still further embodiment of the presently disclosed subject
matter; and
[0057]      Fig. 5C is a perspective view of the tricycle shown in Fig. 5A with its pedals
constituting a footrest.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0058]      The drawings listed above illustrate a number of tricycles for kids, each referred to
throughout the specification as a'vehicle', including a vehicle 1 illustrated in Figs. 1A to 3E, a
vehicle 100 illustrated in Figs. 4A and 4B and vehicle 200 illustrated in Figs. 5A to 5C. Each
of the vehicles 1, 100 and 200 has a longitudinal axis L lying in a symmetry plane SP of the
vehicle, and is foldable between its:
            operational state, in which the vehicle can be ridden along a plane perpendicular to the
plane of symmetry and referred to in the present specification as a reference plane RP, and
            storage state, in which the vehicle can be freely laid on the reference plane RP so
that its longitudinal axis L forms an angle LR with that plane, not exceeding or at least not
essentially exceeding that formed between them in the operational state of the vehicle.

                                                - 13
[0059]      The longitudinal axis, the plane of symmetry, the reference plane and the storage
state of the vehicle are shown in the drawings only with respect to the vehicle 1, the
description of the vehicle 1 being fully applicable to the vehicles 100 and 200.
[0060]      Referring to Fig. 1A, the vehicle 1 comprises a rigid body member 10, a seat
arrangement 30, a front assembly 50 with a front wheel        WF having pedals P, right and left
rear legs  7 0
               R and 70L with respective rear wheels WRR and WRL, and a connection
mechanism 90. Since the rear legs and their rear wheels have identical design, they are
designated in Figures other than Fig. 1A by a single reference numeral 70 and their wheels
are designated hereinafter as WR
[0061]      Referring to Figs. 1B and 1G, the body member 10 comprises a front body portion
11 Fincluding a front body end 12 Fand a rear body portion 11 R including a rear body end 12 R,
the front and rear portions having fixed mutual disposition in both operational and storage
state of the vehicle. The body member can be in the form of a unitary body or rather it can be
assembled of a number of elements.
[0062]      As seen in Fig. 1B, the body member 10 comprises an upper surface 13 facing
upwardly or away from the reference plane RP, a lower surface 14 facing downwardly or
                                                                       1 5
towards the reference plane RP, right and left front side surfaces         F extending between
front portions of the upper and lower surfaces of the body member and defining the front
body portion 11F, and right and left rear side surfaces   1 5
                                                              R extending between rear portions of
the upper and lower surfaces of the body member and defining the rear body portion 11R, to
which the rear legs 70 are pivotally articulated. As best seen in Fig. 1G, the right and left
                      15
front side surfaces      F of the body member 10 are closer to the plane of symmetry SP than
the rear right and left side surfaces 15 R, meaning that the rear body portion 11R is wider than
the front body portion 11F in the direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry SP.
[0063]      As best seen in Figs. 1A and 1C, the seat arrangement 30 comprises a seat 32,
which is mounted to the upper surface 13 of the body member 10 so as to be supported at
least partially by the rear body portion 11 R. The seat arrangement can be configured for
being mounted at one of at least two different positions along the body member, with
different extent, to which the upper surface of the rear body portion 11 R is covered by the
seat's area.
[0064]      The seat arrangement 30 further comprises a backrest 34 having a stationary
backrest portion 35 integrally assembled or unitarily formed with the seat 32, and a foldable

                                                  - 14
backrest portion 37. The backrest portion 37 is pivotable about an axis          XBR, which is parallel
to the reference plane RP and is spaced from the seat 32 by the stationary seat portion 35,
between a generally upright orientation of the backrest portion 37 in the operational state of
the vehicle 1 and generally horizontal orientation of the backrest portion 37 in the storage
state of the vehicle. In addition, the backrest portion can be configured to take at least two
different upright positions to allow choosing a more convenient support to the back of a
rider/user in the operational state of the vehicle.
[0065]     The seat arrangement 30 further comprises an optional securing frame 36, which
in the present example can be pivotal about the same axis          XBR as the pivotal backrest portion
37 between its generally horizontal operational orientation, in which it can prevent a child
seated in the seat 32 from falling off the vehicle 1 and a generally vertical non-operational
orientation used in the process of folding the vehicle. The securing frame can be configured
for being detachably attachable to the vehicle.
[0066]     The seat can be formed without the stationary portion and/or the securing frame,
and the foldable backrest portion can have different axes, about which they can be pivoted,
with the pivotal axis of the backrest being disposed closer to the seat than that of the
securing frame in the operational state of the vehicle. The backrest can be made of a rigid
material or it can be in the form of a fabric casing configured to be dressed on a backrest
frame (not shown), which can be permanently pivotally mounted to the seat, or can be
detachably attachable to the seat, when needed to bring the vehicle into its operational state.
[0067]     The shape of the rear body portion       11R and manner, in which the rear legs 70 are
pivotally articulated thereto, will now be described in more detail with reference to Figs. 1B,
1F, 1G and 1H.
[0068]     The rear body portion    11R  has a converging configuration as seen in its plan view
(Fig. 1G) and rear view (Fig. 1F), due to the corresponding orientation of the right and left
rear side surfaces   1 5
                         R. More particularly, these surfaces   15
                                                                   R are so inclined as to become
closer to each other in the direction away from the rear body end        1 2
                                                                             R (Fig. 1G) and in the
direction away from the reference plane RP (Fig. 1F).
[0069]     Referring to Fig. 1H, the rear side surfaces    15
                                                              R  of the body member 10 are each
provided with an articulation axle 16 fixedly mounted to the rear body portion         1 1R (only the
right axle being seen) so that its outer portion 18 with its free end 19 protrudes from the rear
side surface for holding thereon the corresponding rear leg 70. Each outer portion 18 of the

                                                   -15
articulation axle 16 extends along a corresponding pivot axis        XRP oriented perpendicularly to
the associated rear side surface      15
                                          R and intersecting this surface at a rear articulation point
PRA   (only one such point being seen). The rear articulation points      PRA  of the two, right and
left, rear side surfaces   15
                              R can be located so that an imaginary line connecting them
intersects the longitudinal axis L of the vehicle (not shown).
[0070]       The rear side surfaces   1 5
                                          R are oriented so that the rear axes   XRP, which are
perpendicular thereto, form desired angles with the reference plane RP. More particularly, as
seen in Fig.1 F, the rear pivot axes     XRp  each form an acute angle a with the reference plane
RP. This allows obtaining an increased spacing S between the rear legs' distal ends in their
operational orientation, relative to that which the same legs would have with their pivot axes
XRP   lying in the plane parallel to the reference plane RP. In addition, as seen in Fig. 1G,
each pivot axis    XRP is oriented at an acute angle    p with respect to the plane of symmetry SP
of the vehicle. This ensures that the rear legs' pivoting about the rear pivot axes       XRP  from the
operational to the storage orientation results in their distal ends to get closer to the plane of
symmetry so as to become spaced from this plane to the same or about the same extent as
their proximal ends, despite the above increased spacing. Moreover, in fact, due to the
above angle p the distal ends of the rear legs in the storage orientation of the legs can even
get closer to each other than their proximal ends, thereby improving the 'storage state'
compactness of the vehicle in the direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, as
explained in more detail below with reference to Figs. 3A and 3B.
[0071]       Referring to Figs. 1B, 1G and 1H, each of the rear legs 70 has an elongated body
72 with a proximal end 74, a distal end 76 carrying the rear wheel        WR,   and a connection area
78 (only one seen in Figs. 1B and 1H) between the leg proximal end and the leg distal end,
associated with the connection mechanism 90 (better seen in Fig. 1A). Each rear leg 70
further comprises a rear leg outer surface 75 facing away from the body member and a rear
leg inner surface 77 facing in the direction of the body member and comprising the
connection area 78.
[0072]       Each of the rear legs 70 is formed, adjacent its proximal end, with a through
channel 79, which extends between inner and outer side surfaces 77 and 75 of the rear leg
and is configured to receive therein from the inner side surface of the leg the outer portion 18
of the articulation axle 16 and from the outer side surface a stopper (not shown) configured
to fixedly engage the free end 19 of the axle 16 so as to allow pivoting of the leg about the
axle while preventing the leg from being dissembled from the axle.

                                                  -16
[0073]      Each rear leg inner surface 77 at the proximal end of the leg is oriented in the
same manner as, and is coextensive with, the corresponding rear side surface            15
                                                                                           Rof the
body member 10 so that these surfaces can be in intimate contact with each other in both
storage and operational states of the vehicle.
[0074]      In the operational state of the vehicle, the legs 70 have an operational orientation,
in which the rear wheels     WR   are disposed at a maximal distance from the front wheel      WF
along the plane RP. The rear wheels        WR  have their wheel axes  XWR that are collinear with
one another in the operational orientation of the rear legs 70, allowing the two rear wheels
WR  to travel functionally together being parallel to each other in the state of the vehicle 1.
[0075]      Referring to Fig. 1D, the front assembly 50 comprises a front bar 52 extending
along a front bar axis   XFB  lying in the plane of symmetry SP, and having a wheel end 52A
associated with the front wheel      WF  and a handlebar end 52B associated with handlebars 57.
The front bar 52 with its handlebars 57 can be configured for being revolved about the front
bar axis  XFB  for steering the vehicle 1. In the operational orientation of the front bar 52, its
handlebar end 52B is disposed at a maximal distance from the reference plane RP.
[0076]      Referring to Fig. 1E, the handlebars 57 in their operational orientation have handle
portions 58 extending generally transversely to the plane of symmetry SP of the vehicle so
that their ends are spaced from the front bar 52 and from the plane SP to a maximal extent,
and they are each rotatable about a handle bar axis       XHB, which extends generally parallel to
the plane SP so that in the storage orientation of the handle portions 58 their ends can be
spaced from the plane of symmetry SP to a minimal extent.
[0077]     The wheel end 52A of the front bar 52 is formed with a fork 54 rotatably holding the
front wheel   WF.   The pedals P are each held by a corresponding pedal axle 53 mounted to
the front wheel through an opening in the fork 54, via which it passes freely. Each pedal can
be configured to revolve between an operational orientation, in which it is oriented
transversely to its axle 53, and a storage orientation in which it is aligned with this axle. The
pedals with their axles can be detachable from the front wheel.
[0078]      Referring to Fig. 1C, the front assembly 50 further comprises an articulating
member 60 for pivotal articulation of the front bar 52 to the front end    1 2
                                                                               F of the body member
10 about a front pivot axis    XFP, which is perpendicular to the plane of symmetry SP (and
parallel to the reference plane RP) and which meets each side 15 of the front portion of the

                                                -17
body member 10 at a front articulation point PF. The front pivot axis   XFP crosses the
longitudinal axis L of the vehicle.
[0079]     The articulating member 60 comprises a body-member associated portion 62,
which is pivotally connected to the front portion of the body member about the front pivot axis
XFP, a front-bar associated portion 64 connected to the front bar 52 along a section thereof
disposed between the two ends of the front bar, and a rear-legs associated portion 66
constituting a part of the connection mechanism 90. The front-bar associated portion 64 and
the rear-legs associated portion 66 are formed so that, in an operational orientation of the
articulating member 60, the front-bar associated portion 64 is disposed in front of the body
member associated portion 62, and the rear-legs associated portion 66 is disposed closer to
the reference plane RP than the body-member associated portion 62. In the described
example, where the front bar 52 is configured for revolving about the front bar axis    XFB, the
front-bar associated portion 64 is in the form of a sleeve receiving therein the front bar 52 in
a manner allowing its revolution within the sleeve.
[0080]     The articulating member 60 can be provided with a locking arrangement
comprising a button 61, ensuring that the articulating member 60 is locked to the body
member 10 at least in the operational state of the vehicle and is unlocked therefrom by
pressing the button 61 only when it is desired to change the state of the vehicle and pivot the
articulating member 60 about the front pivot axis    XFP
[0081]      Referring to Figs. 1A, 1F and 1H, the articulating member 60 connects the front bar
52 with the connection areas 78 of the legs 70 by means of two longitudinal connection
elements or bars 92, each having a front connection end 92A attached to one side of the
rear-legs associated portion 66 of the articulating member 60 so as to enable pivoting of the
connection element 92 with respect to the rear-legs associated portion 66 about a front
connection axis   XFC, and a rear connection end 92B attached to the connection area 78 of
one of the legs 70 so as to enable pivoting the connection element 92 with respect to the rear
leg 70 about a rear connection axis     XRC. The connection elements 92 are made of a rigid
material so that their dimensions are maintained unchanged during their operation.
[0082]      Reference is now made to Figs. 2A to 2E, illustrating the process of folding the
vehicle 1 in order to bring it from its operational state shown in Figs. 1A to 1F and also in Fig.
2A, to its storage state shown in Figs. 2E, 3A and 3C. The vehicle is shown in Figs. 1A to 1F
and 2A in its operational state, in which it can be ridden along a plane, i.e. reference plane
RP (shown in Fig. 1F), and in Figs. 2E, 3A and 3B in its storage state, in which it can be

                                                  -18
freely laid on such plane so that its longitudinal axis forms an angle with that plane, which
does not exceed that formed between them in the operational state. This process is
described below with reference to the axes, about which elements of the vehicle 1 are to be
pivoted/revolved when bringing them from their operational into their storage orientation, and
with reference to Fig. 2A, these axes are as follows:
           the handlebars axes    XHB,   about which the handlebars 57 are rotated from their
operational orientation shown in Fig. 2A, in which the handle portions 58 of the handlebars
are disposed at their maximal distance from the front bar 52 and from the plane of symmetry
SP, into their storage orientation shown in Fig. 2B, in which the handle portions 58 of the
handlebars are disposed at their minimal distance from the front bar 52 and from the plane of
symmetry SP;
           the backrest axis  XBR,   about which
            (a)  the securing frame 36 is rotated between its operational orientation shown in
Fig. 2A, which also constitutes its storage orientation shown in Fig. 2E and in which it forms
with the reference plane RP a minimal angle, and its upright orientation shown in Fig. 2B, in
which it forms with the reference plane RP a maximal angle; and
            (b) the backrest portion 37 is rotated from its operational, generally vertical,
orientation shown in Fig. 2A, in which this portion forms with the reference plane a maximal
angle, into its storage, generally horizontal orientation shown in Fig. 2E, in which it forms with
the reference plane a minimal angle;
           the front pivot axis XFP,  about which the front bar 52 is pivoted by the articulating
member 60 clockwise (CW) between its operational orientation shown in Fig. 2A, in which it
forms a maximal angle with the longitudinal axis L and with the reference plane RP, into its
storage orientation shown in Fig. 2D, in which it forms a minimal angle with the longitudinal
axis L and with the reference plane RP; Fig. 2C shows an intermediate orientation of the
front bar 52 taken by it during the above pivoting movement prior to its reaching the storage
orientation;
           the rear pivot axes  XRP   (of which only one such axis is seen), about which the rear
legs 70 are pivoted, when pulled by the articulating member 60 via the corresponding
connection elements 92, from the operational orientation of the rear legs shown in Fig. 2A, in
which the rear wheels are spaced to a maximal extent from the front wheel          WF,  into the
storage orientation of the leg shown in Fig. 2E, in which the rear wheels      WR   are spaced to a
minimal extent from the front wheel      WF;  since the front bar 52 and the rear legs 70 are
connected to one another by the connection mechanism 90, the CW revolution of the front
bar about the front pivot axis  XFp   entails a similar CW revolution of each of the rear legs
about their respective axes    XRP;

                                                  - 19
            the front connection axis  XFC,  about which each connection element 92 is pivoted
relative to the articulating member 60; and
            the rear connection axis  XRC   (not seen in Figs. 2A to 2E), about which each
connection element 92 is pivoted relative to the rear leg 70, when the front bar and the rear
legs are pivoted as described above.
[0083]      Thus, when the vehicle 1 is folded from its operational state into its storage state,
first its handlebars are brought into their storage orientation and the securing frame is
brought into its upright orientation as shown in Fig. 2B, then the front bar and the rear legs
are pivoted into their storage orientation, as shown in Figs. 2C and 2D; then the backrest is
pivoted into its storage orientation and, simultaneously or subsequently, the securing frame
is pivoted into its horizontal orientation, as shown in Fig. 2E. In addition, the pedals P are
folded in order to conserve space in the folded state of the vehicle. The vehicle can then be
returned into its operational state by performing the above steps in the reversed order.
[0084]      Referring to Fig. 3B, owing to the angle 2p between the rear pivot axes       XRP,
revolution of the legs 70 about these axes brings their distal ends 76 closer to the plane of
symmetry SP than their proximal ends, allowing a compact configuration of the vehicle 1 in
the storage state thereof such that its lateral extension    TF at the area of the front end of the
body member can not exceed or at least not essentially exceed its lateral extension         TR at the
area of the rear end of the body member (Fig. 3A). It is also appreciated that in the storage
state of the vehicle 1, the rear wheel axes     XWR  become angled to one another as clearly
seen in Fig. 3A.
[0085]      Referring to Fig. 3A and 3E, owing to the fact that each of the rear legs is
individually articulated to the corresponding side of the rear portion of the body member, the
angle of pivoting of the legs from their operational to their storage orientation, is so large that
in its storage orientation each rear leg has its distal end close to the front end of the body
member and it does not protrude essentially frontward from this end. Consequently, as seen
in Fig. 3C, in the storage state of the vehicle as seen in its side view, each rear leg and the
associated rear wheel are accommodated mainly between the body member's rear end and
the front wheel, allowing thereby reducing the length of the vehicle in this state along the
reference plane.
[0086]      Furthermore, referring to Fig. 3E, each rear leg 70 has such shape and width
relative to those of the body member 10 that, in the storage state of the vehicle, they can
overlap in the side view of the vehicle not only along a majority of their lengths as described

                                                   -  20
above but also along a majority of their heights, allowing the legs 70 not to protrude
downwardly from the body member in the storage state of the vehicle.
[0087]     Referring to Fig. 3D, it is noted that, since the front bar axis   XFB does not coincide
with the front pivot axis  XFP,  i.e. the bar 52 is at an offset OS with respect to the front pivot
axis XFP owing to the articulating member 60, the rotational movement performed by the bar
52 allows positioning it, in the storage state of the vehicle, so that its axis   XFB forms an
extremely small angle y with the longitudinal axis L and so that its handlebar end 52B is
located above the seat 32 while being positioned so low as to be spaced from the reference
plane RP to a distance, which at least does not exceed that between the reference plane RP
and the highest point of the front wheel      WF.    In the present example, the above design allows
the foldable backrest portion 37 to close on the handlebar end 52B from above.
[0088]     Furthermore, as seen in Fig. 3D, in the storage state of the vehicle, the front wheel
WF  and the rear wheels    WR   (only the left one being shown) do not protrude downwardly from
the bottom surface 14 of the body member 10.
[0089]     Turning now to Figs. 4A and 4B, a vehicle is shown, generally designated 100,
which is configured for being used both as a vehicle which can be ridden by a child alone
and as a stroller with its entire front bar 52 being steerable by another person, e.g. an adult,
from the rear of the vehicle. The components of the vehicle 100 that are the same as those in
the previously described vehicle 1, are designated by the same reference numerals. In
addition, the vehicle 100 has a rear steering handle 80 and a rear steering mechanism for
converting the rotational movement of the handle 80 into that of the front bar 52.
[0090]     In particular, the steering mechanism comprises a front rotation member 86
(schematically shown in dotted lines in Fig. 4B) fixedly attached to the front bar 52 and
configured for revolving therewith, a rear port 87 disposed within the body member rear
portion and configured to be revolved by the steering handle 80, and a pair of right and left
steering cable sections 84 extending therebetween within the body member 10, as also
shown schematically in dotted lines in Fig. 4B, and fixedly attached with their one end to the
front member 86 at two diametrically opposite sides thereof and with their other end to the
rear port 87 at its respective diametrically opposite sides.
[0091]     The arrangement is such that, owing to the fixed attachment of the cable sections
84 to the front member 86 and the rear port 87, pulling on one of the cable sections 84 will

                                                   - 21
cause revolution of the front piece 86 about the longitudinal axis        XFB   of the front bar 52,
thereby causing the front bar 52 to revolve, allowing steering of the vehicle.
[0092]      The cables sections are made of a bendable material, which can be of the same
kind as used for bicycle break cables, allowing them to bend adjacent the front pivot axis XFP
when the vehicle 100 is folded from its operational state into its storage state.
[0093]      Fig. 5A illustrates a vehicle 200, which can also be used as a vehicle configured for
being ridden by a child on his own, or as a stroller to be steered via a rear steering handle
(not shown) operated by another person. The vehicle 200 generally has the same
components as those of the previously described vehicles 1 and 100, with the difference
being in that with respect to some of these components of the vehicle 200, more details are
provided in Fig. 5B regarding one specific manner, in which they can be implemented. It
should be understood however that these components can be generally implemented in
other manners. Moreover, Fig. 5B should not be considered as presenting all details of the
these components but rather only those described below and designated by reference
numerals corresponding to the reference numerals used in the description of the vehicles 1
and 100 with the addition of 200. It should also be noted that Fig. 5B does not show
standard or obvious structural elements. It should also be understood that most elements
that are shown in this figure in an exploded manner relate to the right side of the vehicle 200
(which is best seen in Figs. 5A and 5B), which is a mirror image of the left side of the vehicle
200 so, if not indicated otherwise, the same elements as shown for the right side of the
vehicle are also present in its left side.
[0094]      Thus, the vehicle 200 comprises a hollow housing having right and left housing
parts 210, each comprising front and rear outer surfaces 2 15 Fand           2 1 5 R(seen   only in the
right housing part 210), and front and rear inner surfaces 2 15 F'and         2 15
                                                                                    R' (both seen only in
the left housing part 210 in Fig. 5B). When the housing parts 210 are assembled along their
rims as shown in Fig. 5A, they constitute a body member 210, with the front side surfaces
2 15 F of the two housing parts defining therebetween a body member front portion 21 1 Fand
the rear side surfaces 2 15 R of the two housing parts defining therebetween a body member
rear portion   2 1 1 R. In the present example, the front and rear body portions are spaced from
each other by a body member intermediate portion           2 1 1 t, whose outer and inner surfaces
(not designated) are disposed between the respective front and rear side surfaces               2 15 Fand
2 15 R, and front and rear inner surface   2 1 5 F' and 2 15 R', respectively.

                                                    - 22
[0095]     With reference to the right housing part 210 and left rear leg 270 as seen in Fig.
5B, the rear outer surfaces      2 15R of the two housing parts each belong to a protrusion 217
constituting a part of the body member rear portion 211 R formed so that this surface is
oriented as described above with reference to the rear surfaces 15 R of the vehicle 1. Each
protrusion 217 fixedly holds an articulation axle 216 having an outer portion 218 oriented
perpendicularly to its rear outer surface      2 15 R and having a free end 219.
[0096]      Referring to the right and left legs 270 in Fig. 5B, each has a rear leg outer surface
275 and a rear leg inner surface 277 and has a through channel 279 extending therebetween
and configured to receive therein from the inner side surface 277 of the leg the outer portion
218 of the articulation axle 216 and from the outer side surface 275 of the leg a stopper 310
configured to be received in a pocket 312, at which the channel 279 terminates, and to
fixedly engage the free end 219 of the axle 216 so as to allow pivoting of the leg about the
axle while preventing the leg from being dissembled from the axle.
[0097]     With further reference to the left rear leg 270 in Fig. 5B, each rear leg comprises, at
its inner side surface 277, a connection area 278, which in the present example is in the form
of a pin protruding therefrom and configured for connecting thereto one of the two
longitudinal connection bars 292, with its rear connection end 292B so as to enable pivoting
of the connection bar 292 with respect to the rear leg 270. Each connection bar 292 further
has front connection end 292A attached to an articulating member 260, which constitutes a
part of the front assembly 250.
[0098]     As shown in Fig. 5B, the articulating member 260 comprises:
            a rear-legs associated portion 266 constituting a part of a connection mechanism
290 (not designated) and having two sides, to which the two connection bars 292 are
pivotally connected with their front connection end 292A;
            a body-member associated portion 262, which is pivotally connected to the front
body portion    2 1 1 F (seen in Fig. 5A); and
            a front-bar associated portion 264 rotatably receiving therein a lower portion 252A
of the front bar 252 so that an upper portion 252B of the front bar is free of direct connection
to the articulating member.
[0099]     The upper and lower portions 252A and 252B of the front bar 252 are assembled
with each other so that, when locked to each other by a locker 320 (seen in both Figs. 5A
and 5B), they are fixedly connected to each other to constitute a single integral front bar unit
and, when unlocked from each other, they become functionally disconnected, allowing the

                                                - 23
lower portion to be steered by a rear steering mechanism described in detail below, and
allowing the upper portion to either have a fixed orientation or to be rotatable independently
from the lower portion.
[00100]    As further shown in Fig. 5B, the vehicle 200 is provided with a right and a left
locking mechanism for locking the articulating member 260 in its operational orientation, both
locking mechanisms operating along the front pivot axis      XFP, each comprising:
            a spring-loaded locking element 265 having a pattern of protrusions along its
circumference (the spring being separately designated at 267);
            a locking cavity 268 formed at the front inner surface  2 15
                                                                         F'of the corresponding
housing part 210 (seen in the left housing part in Fig. 5B) and having a circumferential
pattern of recesses corresponding to the pattern of protrusions of the locking element so as
to enable the locking cavity to fittingly receive therein the spring loaded locking element 265
in its operational orientation;
            an articulation cavity 271 formed in the body-member associated portion 262 of the
articulation member 260 at its side facing the corresponding housing part, and having a
circumferential pattern of recesses corresponding to the pattern of protrusions of the locking
element 265; the articulation cavity 271 permanently receives therein the spring 267 and the
locking element 265 and is configured to allow the locking element to enter deeper into the
articulation cavity when an axial pressing force is exerted thereon and the spring is pressed
accordingly;
            a button 261 having prongs 281 and correspondingly shaped through passages
283 formed in the housing part 210 so as to extend between its inner and outer front
surfaces 2 15F' and 2 15F thereof, the through passages being configured to receive therein
the prongs 281 of the button both when the button is in its outermost position in the
operational and storage states of the vehicle 200, and when it is pressed into its innermost
position for exerting, by its prongs 281, the axial pressing force on the spring-loaded locking
element 265; and
            a cover 299 covering the body-member associated portion 262 and the front-bar
associated portion 264 of the articulating member 260 and having an opening 285 for
accommodating therein the button 261 so as to allow access thereto by the user for pressing
the button, when needed.
[00101]    Thus, in the operational state of the vehicle 200, the spring-loaded locking
elements 265 are in their locking position, each being accommodated in the locking cavity
268 and protruding into the articulation cavity 271 to a minimal extent. When the state of the
vehicle 200 is to be changed from its operational state to its storage state, the right and left

                                                - 24
locking mechanisms are operated simultaneously to unlock the articulating member 260 and
to thereby allow its pivoting about the front pivot axis  XFP from its operational orientation to its
storage orientation as described above with reference to the vehicle 1.
[00102]    The unlocking is initiated by pressing the right and left buttons 261, and thereby
causing the prongs 282 to exert the axial pressing force on the locking elements 265 causing
them to move out of the locking cavity 268 into the articulation cavity 271 to a maximal
extent. In this unlocking position, the locking elements 265 can no longer prevent the
articulating member 260 from being pivoted with respect to the body member 210, and they
pivot together with the articulating member 260 and stay so engaged until the articulating
member 260 with the locking elements 265 is pivoted back into its operational orientation,
thereby bringing the locking elements into alignment with the locking cavities 268. When this
alignment is achieved, each locking element 265 is pushed by its corresponding spring 267
back into its locking position within the locking cavity 268.
[00103]    The vehicle 200 further comprises a rear steering mechanism for use with the
handle 80 (not shown in Figs. 5A and 5B) as described with respect to the vehicle 100 shown
in Figs. 4A and 4B, converting the pivotal movement of the handle into that of the front bar
252. The steering mechanism comprises:
           the front rotation member 286 disposed inside the front-bar associated portion 264
of the articulating member 260, which is fixedly attached to the front bar 252 and configured
for revolving therewith,
            a rear port 287 having a pair of right and left steering cable sections 284 fixedly
attached thereto at their one end and fixedly attached with their other end to the front rotation
member 286 so that pulling on one of the cable sections 284 will cause revolution of the front
rotation member 286 with the front bar 252, allowing steering of the vehicle;
            a rear port cup 289 whose interior merges with a cable passage (not designated),
the cup (shown assembled with the housing left part), being fixed within the body member
rear portion 211 R, so as to receive therein the rear port 287 in a manner allowing the port to
be rotated by the handle 80, with the cable sections 284 passing through the cable passage,
via the interior of the body member 210 towards the front piece 286.
[00104]    To ensure that the right and left cable sections 284 will be bent as desired when
the vehicle is folded from the operational state into the storage state by pivoting the
articulation member 260 together with the front bar 252 and the front member 286, the cable
sections extend within the body member 210 so that each of them passes between the

                                               - 25
prongs 281 of the respective right or left button 261 allowing the prongs to fix the locations of
the cable sections, at which they are to be bent.
[00105]    The vehicle 200 further comprises a front bar locking clamp 300 attached to its
securing frame 236 for locking the upper portion 252B of the front bar 252 to the securing
frame 236, when in its operational orientation (as seen in Fig. 5B), allowing this portion to
have a fixed orientation when the lower portion of the front is steered.
[00106]    Finally, the pedals P of the vehicle are mountable both to the front wheel WF as
described above and shown in Fig. 5A, allowing the vehicle to be ridden by a child
accommodated therein, and to the articulating member 260 at its rear-legs associated portion
266 as shown in Fig. 5C, to constitute a footrest disposed closer to the seat arrangement 30
than the front wheel WF and thus facilitate the use of the vehicle 200 as a stroller. The seat
arrangement 30 can be configured for mounting in at least two positions one - as shown in
Figs. 5A and 5C, and the other (not shown) - closer to the front bar 252.

                                                  - 26
CLAIMS
1.         A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle and a horizontal
reference plane perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, the vehicle comprising:
            a body member having an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front assembly comprising a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, and an
articulation member, by virtue of which the front bar is pivotally articulated about a front pivot
axis to the front end of the body member to take an operational and a storage orientation;
            a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg distal end with a rear wheel
and a leg proximal end, at which the leg is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side
surface of the body member to take an operational and a storage orientation of the leg, at
least one of the legs having a connection area between the leg proximal end and the leg
distal end; and
            a right and a left connection member, each connecting the articulating member
with the connection area of the respective right and left rear legs so that pivoting the front bar
between its operational and storage orientations causes the connection members to pivot the
rear legs along the respective rear side surface of the body member, between their
respective operational and storage orientations.
2.         A vehicle according to Claim 1, wherein the rear legs of the vehicle are free of any
common elements extending therebetween at locations thereon spaced from the legs'
proximal ends, for pivotally connecting the legs to the body member.
3.         A vehicle according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein in the storage state of the vehicle
each rear leg is coextensive with the body member at least along a majority of their
longitudinal dimensions.
4.         A vehicle according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the front bar is of the kind that in its
storage orientation the front wheel is disposed in front of the body member and at least a
majority of each rear leg with the associated rear wheel, as seen in the side view of the
vehicle in its storage state, is accommodated between the body member's rear end and the
front wheel.

                                                 - 27
5.         A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, further comprising right and left
articulation axles for pivotal articulation of the corresponding right and left rear legs of the
vehicle relative to the associated right and left rear side surfaces of the body member, about
a right and a left rear pivot axis, respectively.
6.         A vehicle according to Claim 5, wherein each of the rear pivot axes forms an acute
angle with the reference plane, in the rear view of the vehicle, so as to obtain an increased
spacing between the rear legs' distal ends in their operational orientation relative to that,
which these legs would have with the pivot axes lying in a plane parallel to the reference
plane.
7.         A vehicle according to Claim 5 or 6, wherein each of the right and left rear pivot
axes forms an acute angle with the plane of symmetry of the vehicle, in the plan view thereof,
so that distal ends of the rear legs in their storage orientation are closer to the plane of
symmetry than in their operational orientation.
8.         A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the rear portion of the
body member has a converging configuration as seen in at least one of its plan and rear
views, provided by the corresponding orientation of the right and left rear side surfaces of the
rear body portion.
9.         A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the front pivot axis is
spaced from the front bar axis so that in the operational orientation of the front bar in the
operational state of the vehicle, the front bar is disposed in front of the body member, and in
its storage orientation in the storage state of the vehicle, the front bar is disposed above and
extends along the upper surface of the body member along at least a majority of the length of
the front bar.
10.        A vehicle according to Claim 9, wherein the front bar is so oriented in the storage
state of the vehicle as to be upwardly spaced from the longitudinal axis to a distance shorter
than that of the highest point of the vehicle, other than any point of the front bar itself.
11.        A vehicle according to Claim 10, wherein the articulating member has the following
portions: a first, front-bar associated portion, which embraces the front bar in a manner
allowing at least a portion of the front bar to revolve about the front bar axis; a second, rear
legs associated portion, to which the at least one connection member is attached at its end
opposite the end, at which it is attached to the connection area of the corresponding rear leg;

                                               - 28
and a third, body-member associated portion, at which the articulating member is pivotally
articulated to the front end of the body member; wherein in the side view of the vehicle, the
second portion is disposed closer to the seat than the first and the third portions, whilst the
third portion is disposed closer to the reference plane than the first and second portions.
12.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein the at least one
connection member is configured to be able, when pushed by the articulating member, to
push accordingly the rear legs from their storage orientation to their operational orientation.
13.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein the at least one
connection member comprises a right and a left connection member, each connecting the
articulating member with the connection area of the respective right and left rear legs.
14.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 13, further comprising pedals
detachably mountable to the front wheel and to another element of the vehicle disposed
closer to the seat than the front wheel along the longitudinal axis of the vehicle.
15.        A vehicle according to Claim 14, wherein said other element is the articulating
member.
16.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein the vehicle is a tricycle
convertible into a stroller configured for accommodating a child therein and for preventing,
when desired, the child from being able to steer the vehicle.
17.        A vehicle according to Claim 16, wherein the front bar has an upper and a lower
portion and a locking arrangement, assembled so as to allow the two portions to be locked
to each other to behave as a single integral unit steerable by operating the handlebars, and
to be unlocked from each other allowing the lower portion to be steered by a separate
steering mechanism other than the upper portion with the handlebars.
18.        A vehicle according to Claim 17, further including a front bar locking clamp for
locking at least the upper portion of the front bar to an element of the vehicle, which is not
movable when in the operational state of the vehicle, to prevent the possibility of rotating the
front bar or its upper portion by operating its handlebars.
19.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 16 to 18, further comprising a foldable
rear steering mechanism for use with a rotatable rear steering handle when mounted to the

                                                  - 29
rear end of the body member, the mechanism connecting the handle with the front bar so
that manipulation of the handle causes at least the front bar's lower portion to rotate about
the front bar axis for steering the vehicle.
20.         A vehicle according to Claim 19, wherein the steering mechanism comprises:
            a front rotation member fixedly mounted to the front bar;
            a rear rotatable port located at the rear end of the body member and configured for
fixedly receiving therein the rear steering handle so that rotation of the handle about the
handle axis causes the port to rotate accordingly; and
            at least one pair of cable sections including a right cable section and a left cable
section, each extending between the front rotation member and the port and being so
connected thereto that rotation of the port in different directions causes it to pull the left or
right section and such pulling yields the rotational movement of the front rotation member
and subsequently at least a lower portion of the front bar, wherein the right and left cable
sections are configured for bending at a location thereof disposed in the vicinity of the front
pivot axis.
21.         A vehicle according to Claim 20, wherein the right and left cable sections extend
along and within the body member of the vehicle along a majority of their length.
22.         A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle and a horizontal
reference plane perpendicular to the plane of symmetry, the vehicle comprising:
            a body member having an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, the front bar being at least indirectly
pivotally articulated to the body member adjacent its front end, to take operational and
storage orientations of the front bar;
            a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg proximal end and a leg distal
end to which a rear wheel is mounted;
            a right and a left rear pivot axis, about which the corresponding right or left rear leg
is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side surface of the body member to take an
operational and a storage orientation of the leg, each of the rear pivot axes being oriented at
an acute angle to the plane of symmetry of the vehicle in its plan view so that the rear legs'
pivoting about the rear pivot axes from their operational to their storage orientation allows

                                                  - 30
their distal ends to get closer to the plane of symmetry, e.g. to become spaced from this
plane to a lesser extent in their storage orientation than in their operational orientation, and,
optionally, become spaced from this plane to the same or about the same extent as their
proximal ends.
23.         A vehicle according to Claim 22, wherein each of the rear pivot axes is oriented at
an acute angle with respect to the reference plane in the vehicle's rear view, so as to obtain
an increased spacing between the rear legs' distal ends in their operational orientation
relative to that, which the legs would have with the pivot axes lying in a plane parallel to the
reference plane.
24.         A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle, the vehicle
comprising:
            a body member comprising this axis, an upper surface holding a seat, front and
rear ends spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a
left rear side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced
from each other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front bar and a front wheel mounted thereto, the front bar being at least indirectly
pivotally articulated to the body member adjacent its front end to take operational and
storage orientations;
            a right rear leg and a left rear leg each having a leg proximal end and a leg distal
end to which a rear wheel is mounted;
            a right and a left rear pivot axis, about which the corresponding right or left rear leg
is pivotally articulated to the respective rear side surface of the body member to take
operational and storage orientations, each of the rear pivot axes being oriented at an acute
angle with respect to the reference plane in the vehicle's rear view, so as to obtain an
increased spacing between the rear legs' distal ends in their operational orientation relative
to that, which the legs would have with the pivot axes lying in a plane parallel to the
reference plane.
25.         A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle, the vehicle
comprising:
            a body member having an upper surface holding a seat, front and rear ends
spaced from each other along the longitudinal axis, a right rear side surface and a left rear

                                                  - 31
side surface both disposed adjacent the rear end of the body member and spaced from each
other in a direction perpendicular to the plane of symmetry;
            a front bar pivotally articulated at least indirectly to the front portion of the body via
a front pivot axis and holding a front wheel of the vehicle, so as to be pivoted between its
operational orientation and storage orientations;
            two rear legs each pivotally articulated to the rear portion of the body via a rear
pivot axis to take operational and storage orientations, and holding a rear wheel of the
vehicle;
            a rotatable rear steering port configured to fixedly receive therein a rear steering
handle for using said handle when the vehicle is in its operational state;
            a steering mechanism connecting said port with the front bar so that rotation of the
port by the handle causes at least a lower portion of the front bar to rotate for steering the
vehicle when in its operational state, the steering mechanism comprising at least one
steering element extending at least partially within the body member and configured to be
bent in the vicinity of the front pivot axis, when the front bar is pivoted from its operational
orientation to its storage orientation.
26.         A vehicle according to Claim 25, wherein the steering mechanism further
comprises a front rotation member fixedly mounted to the front bar, and a pair of bendable
right and left cable sections constituting the steering elements, each extending between the
front rotation member and the port and so connected thereto that rotation of the port
clockwise or counterclockwise causes the port to pull the respective right or left section, and
such pulling yields the rotational movement of the front rotation member and subsequently of
the front bar.
27.         A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle, the vehicle
comprising:
            a body member having a front portion and a rear portion;
            a front bar pivotally articulated at least indirectly to the front portion of the body via
a front pivot axis so as to be pivoted between its operational orientation and storage
orientations, and holding handlebars and a front wheel of the vehicle to which a pair of
pedals can be or are mounted; the front bar having upper and lower portions configured to be
locked to each other to behave as a single integral unit steerable by operating the
handlebars, and unlocked from each other allowing the lower portion to be steered by a
separate steering independently of the upper portion;

                                                 - 32
           a front bar locking clamp for locking the upper portion to an element of the vehicle,
which is not movable when in the operational state of the vehicle, to prevent the possibility of
rotating the upper portion about the front bar axis by operating its handlebars;
           two rear legs each pivotally articulated to the rear portion of the body via a rear
pivot axis to take operational and storage orientations, and holding a rear wheel of the
vehicle;
           a foldable rear steering mechanism for use with a rotatable rear steering handle
when mounted to the rear end of the body member, the mechanism connecting the handle
with the front bar so that manipulation of the handle causes at least a lower portion of the
front bar to rotate about the front bar axis for steering the vehicle.
28.        A foldable personal vehicle having an operational state and a storage state and
having a longitudinal axis lying in a vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle, the vehicle
comprising:
           a body member having a front portion and a rear portion;
           a front bar pivotally articulated at least indirectly to the front portion of the body via
a front pivot axis so as to be pivoted between its operational orientation and storage
orientations, and holding handlebars and a front wheel of the vehicle;
           two rear legs each pivotally articulated to the rear portion of the body via a rear
pivot axis to take operational and storage orientations, and holding a rear wheel of the
vehicle;
           a foldable rear steering mechanism for use with a rotatable rear steering handle
when mounted to the rear end of the body member, the mechanism connecting the handle
with the front bar so that manipulation of the handle causes at least a lower portion of the
front bar to rotate about the front bar axis for steering the vehicle; and
           a pair of pedals mountable to said front wheel and at least indirectly to the body
member at a location closer to the seat than the front wheel.
29.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 22 to 28, wherein the rear legs of the
vehicle are free of any common elements extending therebetween at locations thereon
spaced from the legs' proximal ends, for pivotally connecting the legs to the body member.
30.        A vehicle according to any one of Claims 22 to 29, wherein in the storage state of
the vehicle each rear leg is coextensive with the body member at least along a majority of
their longitudinal dimensions.

                                                - 33
31.         A vehicle according to any one of Claims 22 to 30, wherein the front bar is of the
kind that in its storage orientation the front wheel is disposed in front of the body member
and at least a majority of each rear leg with the associated rear wheel, as seen in the side
view of the vehicle in its storage state, is accommodated between the body member's rear
end and the front wheel.
32.         A vehicle according to any one of Claims 22 to 31, wherein the rear portion of the
body member has a converging configuration as seen in at least one of its plan and rear
views, provided by the corresponding orientation of the right and left rear side surfaces of the
rear body portion.
33.         A vehicle according to anyone of Claims 22 to 32, further comprising a front
assembly comprising the front bar and an articulation member, by virtue of which the front
bar is pivotally articulated to the front end of the body member about a front pivot axis.
34.         A vehicle according to Claims 33, wherein the front pivot axis is spaced from the
front bar axis so that in the operational orientation of the front bar in the operational state of
the vehicle, the front bar is disposed in front of the body member, and in its storage
orientation in the storage state of the vehicle, the front bar is disposed above and extends
along the upper surface of the body member along at least a majority of the length of the
front bar.
35.         A vehicle according to Claim 34, wherein the front bar is so oriented in the storage
state of the vehicle as to be upwardly spaced from the longitudinal axis to a distance shorter
than that of the highest point of the vehicle, other than any point of the front bar itself.
36.         A vehicle according to Claim 33, 34 or 35, wherein the articulating member has the
following portions: a first, front-bar associated portion, which embraces the front bar in a
manner allowing at least a portion of the front bar to revolve about the front bar axis; a
second, rear-legs associated portion, to which the at least one connection member is
attached at its end opposite the end, at which it is attached to the connection area of the
corresponding rear leg; and a third, body-member associated portion, at which the
articulating member is pivotally articulated to the front end of the body member; wherein in
the side view of the vehicle, the second portion is disposed closer to the seat than the first
and the third portions, whilst the third portion is disposed closer to the reference plane than
the first and second portions.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/11

