                               ELECTRONIC WAGERING
                           ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        The present system incorporates mobile computing devices to play games, such
as electronic pull-tabs, in a plurality of venues, each having a local wireless network.
Each network communicates with a central system that generates decks of game
outcomes and associated awards. All wagers and awards for each game are tracked on
the central system, which also provides each game award and associated outcome from
a deck stored on the central system.

             11/42
co
          0a       U
  000 III@

 5                                ELECTRONIC WAGERING
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise" and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be
   understood to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
10 exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "include" and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be
   understood to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
   exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
15
            Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates generally to implementing wagering games via an
   electronic network and more particularly to implementing such games via computing
   devices used by a player.
20
            Background Art
           Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any
   reference to information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is
   provided only for the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to
25 the present invention, and is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that
   material forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia or any other country
   as at the priority date of the application in relation to which this specification has been
   filed.
   Some types of wagering games are known as reveal games because the outcome of the
30 game is known when the wager is placed. As a result, the point of the game is to
   disclose the outcome to the player in a manner that creates interest. One such type of
   game uses a pull-tab ticket, sometimes referred to a break-open card. Some states
                                                   1

   authorize gaming to be conducted by and for the benefit of charitable organizations, and
   sales of pull-tab tickets are a popular type of charitable gaming.
            A pull-tab ticket is typically a multi-layered paper ticket containing symbols
   hidden behind perforated tabs on the top layer on one side of the ticket. The other side
 5 of the ticket lists winning combinations of symbols, the number of tickets that contain
   each winning combination, and the cash payout for each combination. Sometimes the
   total number of tickets in the game is also disclosed.
            Tickets may be sold for any amount, but typical costs vary from $.25 to $5.00.
   Prizes may also be any amount but usually range up to $1,000. After a player purchases
10 a pull-tab ticket, he or she pulls the perforated tab to reveal the symbols. If there is a
   combination of symbols that matches one of the listed winning combinations, the player
   may redeem the ticket with the seller to collect the prize.
            A game manager is responsible for selling pull-tab tickets. The manager must
   account for money received and paid to a variety of people and entities. These include
15 revenues for tickets sold and prizes redeemed when a winning ticket is presented, and
   often also includes money paid to taxing authorities, to the venue hosting the game, and
   to the manager. These games are usually operated in small venues such as restaurants
   and bars according to state charitable-gaming regulations.
            One of the costs of operating a pull-tab game is purchasing boxes of tickets.
20 Each box includes a predefined number of winning combinations, an award amount
   associated with each winning combination, a total number of tickets, and a sales price
   for each ticket. As a practical matter, the total number of tickets for each box is limited
   due to the difficulty of managing and accounting for a large number of tickets.
            Turning now to Fig. 1, indicated generally at 10 is a prior art paper pull-tab
25 ticket. The ticket includes at least two layers of paper, an upper layer 12 and a lower
   layer 14, which is visible beneath an opened tab 16. The tab is formed via perforations
   or cuts in layer 12 that define a border 18 of the tab, like a border 20 of a second
   unopened tab 22. Three additional unopened tabs appear beneath tab 22. Each of the
   tabs is marked OPEN HERE.
                                                   2

            A pay table printed on the backside of ticket 10 is shown in Fig. 2. This pay
   table is printed on the other side of lower layer 14 from that visible in Fig. 1. The
   number of each of the 6 winning combinations in the box from which ticket 10 was sold
   is typically printed along side each winning combination, although not visible in Fig. 2.
 5 In addition, the ticket may include the total number of tickets in the box from which the
   ticket was sold, or this information may be provided separately from the ticket. And in
   some instances, players are informed of the total number of tickets sold from the box
   and/or the number of tickets from the box remaining to be sold.
            In operation, a game manager sells ticket 10 to a player for a predetermined
10 amount. When received by the player, each of the tabs remains unopened, i.e., the
   portion of layer 12 that is perforated or cut to define each tab border remains intact. As
   a result, each of the tabs is in the position shown for tab 22 in Fig. 1. After the player
   purchases the ticket, he or she bends it slightly or pulls at the border of one of the tabs
   to tear it from its connection to layer 12 about three sides of the tab perimeter to open it
15 to the position shown for tab 16.
            So doing reveals three symbols that are printed on layer 14 beneath each of the
   unopened tabs. When these symbols match one of the winning combinations shown in
   Fig. 2, typically three-of-a-kind, the player returns the opened ticket to the seller and
   redeems it for the award associated with the symbol combination beneath the tab. On
20 the other hand, when none of the symbols beneath the tab correspond to a winning
   combination, the tab is not redeemable and may be discarded.
            It would be desirable to implement pull-tab and other types of gaming using an
   electronic network of computing devices via which games are played.
25          Brief Description of the Drawings
            The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
            Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the front of a prior art pull-tab ticket having one of
   its tabs pulled.
                                                   3

           Fig. 2 is a plan view of the ticket of Fig. 1 showing the symbol combinations that
   provide an award, the amount of each award, and the number of such awards.
           Fig. 3 is a plan view of a player playing an electronic pull-tab game on a mobile
   computing device having a touch screen for providing input commands.
 5         Fig. 4 is an enlarged view of the screen display in Fig. 2.
           Figs. 5-7 are views similar to Fig. 3 showing sequential views of game play
   responsive to touch screen commands.
           Figs. 8-9 are views similar to Fig. 3 showing the player using the touch screen to
   view the results of the game played in Figs. 4-6.
10         Figs. 10-11 illustrate using a touch screen command to change from the game of
   Figs. 3-9 to another game.
           Fig. 12 is a plan view of a player using one hand to play the game of Figs. 3-9.
           Fig. 13 is a plan view of a mobile computing device showing a screen display
   implemented according to the present embodiment.
15         Figs. 14-18 show sequential screen displays for selecting a game.
           Fig. 19 is a screen display for the game Big Money Heist.
           Figs. 20-23 are screen displays for the game Mystic Sevens.
           Figs. 24-27 are screen displays for the game Old Glory: Stars and Bars.
           Figs. 28-30 are screen displays for the game Treasuresof the Jungle.
20         Figs. 31-33 are screen displays for the game Slideways.
           Figs. 34 and 35 are schematic diagrams depicting portions of the present
   embodiment.
           Fig. 36 is a top plan view of a session voucher.
           Fig. 37 is a perspective view of the session voucher of Fig. 36 being scanned on a
25 player terminal.
           Figs. 38-44 are views of different screen displays on the cashier terminal.
                                                  4

           Detailed Description
           Turning now to Fig. 3, indicated generally at 24 is a mobile computing device 24
   upon which a game is implemented-in this case a game called Ladies Choice. Before
   considering the technical aspects of how this invention may be implemented,
 5 consideration will first be given to the game itself, how it appears to the player, and how
   the player interacts with the game and with a manager of the game.
           In the present embodiment of the invention, device 24 comprises an iPodTM,
   which is made by Apple Inc. Any suitable computing device may be so used. In Fig. 3
   device 24 is being held in a player's left hand 26. A forefinger 28 on the player's right
10 hand 30 is shown in motion in the direction of an arrow 29 on a touch screen 31, which
   has a display 32 thereon, on device 24. As is known in the art, touch screens can be
   implemented in a variety of ways, each of which changes a state that the device is
   monitoring. Some screens rely on sound or light, and others use capacitive material,
   which holds a charge that changes when touched. Some touch screens are comprised of
15 capacitors arranged according to a coordinate system, which is used in a known manner
   to determine location and direction of movement of a finger touching the screen. This is
   accomplished by sending signals that result from changing capacitance to a processor in
   device 24, which interprets the input from a touch and/or finger movement. A finger
   touch combined with movement along an axis on the screen is referred to as a screen
20 swipe. Any technique that facilitates touching and swiping as described herein may be
   used.
           Fig. 4 is an enlarged view of screen 31 with finger 28 off the screen to reveal all
   of a display 32 on screen 31. A woman's portrait 33 appears at the top of display 32.
   Because the present implementation happens to be in conjunction with charitable
25 gaming, the name of the charity receiving the benefit appears adjacent portrait 33. The
   display includes a pay table 34, which indicates the symbol combinations that comprise
   a win and the number of such combinations in a deck, which is the total number of
   possible outcomes and awards associated with a predetermined number of game plays.
   The pay table also includes an award amount for each symbol combination. In the
                                                 5

   present embodiment of the invention, the deck comprises a total of 7,500 cumulative
   game plays by all of the players at a single location. In the present embodiment of the
   system, once a deck is opened, i.e., the first outcome and associated award is
   transmitted to the game being played, it must remain associated with the venue where
 5 the first card was purchased via the player's wager until the deck is either closed or the
   cards are all used. The deck, its construction, and how it is used is described in more
   detail in a later section.
            A first row 36 of pay table 34 indicates that the combination of four symbols of
   a woman's head appear four times in the deck, and each time the combination appears,
10 the player wins $500. (This top-paying symbol corresponds to the portrait 33 featured at
   the top of the display.) Similarly, in the next row down, the combination of four rings
   appear four times with each win receiving a $200 award. In the last row, the
   combination of four hearts appears 500 times, with each occurrence resulting in an
   award of $1.
15          At the bottom of display 32, there is a touch-sensitive menu button 38. A
   denomination panel 40, also at the bottom of the display, is not touch sensitive. Rather,
   it indicates the denomination of the game, i.e., how much is wagered for each play of
   the game. In this case, each play costs $1. In the present embodiment, this indication
   does not change during game play, but other embodiments could permit selecting
20 different denominations. An adjacent credit meter 42 indicates the number of remaining
   credits that the player has on the game. In the present embodiment, this equates to the
   number of dollars because it is a $1 wager. But this meter could indicate the remaining
   dollars, which would be different from the number of credits for other wager
   denominations. These credits are initially applied to the game as a result of the player
25 depositing an initial amount to begin game play. Any wins during play are applied to
   the credit meter. And the total amount on the meter is returned to the player at the
   conclusion of game play-more about how credits are applied and redeemed shortly.
                                                 6

            Finishing the description of display 32 on screen 31, a downwardly directed
   arrow 44 appears on the right side of the display. As can be seen, the words SWIPE TO
   PLAY appear on arrow 44.
            Figs. 5-7 depict a single play of the game, which begins when the player uses a
 5 finger to touch arrow 44 anywhere in roughly the upper half of the arrow. As instructed
   by the arrow itself, a downward swipe of the finger results in game play. In Fig. 5,
   finger 28 was initially placed near the uppermost portion of arrow 44. In Fig. 5, the
   swipe has begun with the finger moving from the top of the arrow to the position
   shown. Such movement has revealed a first row 46 of symbols. Downward finger
10 movement on the arrow and revelation of row 46 coincide with downward movement of
   pay table 34. As can be seen in Fig. 5, the bottom two rows of the pay table are no
   longer visible and each of the other rows has moved down two rows. As all this
   movement occurs, the impression that the player has is one of lowering the pay table to
   reveal row 46, all of this being accomplished by gradually changing screen display
15 responsive to touch-screen input.
            In Fig. 6, further downward movement of finger 28 on arrow 44 reveals a
   second row 48 of symbols. In the present embodiment, after the first row is revealed, it
   moves downwardly as the second row appears. This can be appreciated by observing
   the movement of row 46 in Figs. 5-7, the movement of row 48 in Figs. 6-7, and the
20 appearance of row 50 in Fig. 7. Alternatively, each symbol row 46, 48, 50 can maintain
   its place where initially revealed. In this alternative, the row order in Fig. 7 would be
   from top to bottom: row 46, row 48, row 50.
           Another noteworthy feature is that finger 28 can rapidly swipe downwardly on
   arrow 44 thus moving from the display of Fig. 4 to that of Fig. 7 in a fraction of a
25 second. In this mode, each symbol row is quickly revealed, one after the other as
   described above.
            The player may alternatively slowly move his or her finger down the arrow
   while maintaining contact with the screen. In this mode of play, the player may stop and
   hold his or her finger as shown, e.g., in Fig. 5. So long as this position is held, i.e.,
                                                  7

   finger on the screen in the location immediately after row 46 is revealed, the display on
   screen 31 will be held as shown in Fig. 5. What is more, if the finger is lifted from the
   screen the display, e.g., from the position shown in Fig. 5, row 46 remains revealed and
   no further game activity takes place until the finger again touches the screen on the
 5 arrow and swipes further downwardly. This mode of operation gives the player the
   opportunity to more slowly reveal-and to hold and inspect-each of the symbol rows
   46, 48, 50 as it is revealed.
            This slow motion reveal can be repeated for each of the rows, i.e., stopping
   finger movement on the screen or lifting the finger from the screen after each row is
10 revealed holds the display as shown in Fig. 5 or Fig. 6 or Fig. 7. Once the finger is at the
   bottom of arrow 44, all rows are revealed, whether this has been done quickly or slowly.
   For so long as finger 28 remains on screen at the bottom of arrow 44, as shown in Fig.
   7, all three rows remain displayed.
            Once, however, the finger is lifted from the screen after all rows are displayed,
15 one of two things happen depending on whether any of the revealed rows comprise a
   winning combination of symbols, i.e., four-of-a-kind. In the view of Fig. 7, row 50
   comprises a winning combination. As can be seen from pay table 34 in Fig. 4, this
   combination pays $5. In Fig. 7, immediately after finger 28 lifts from the screen, the
   winning combination is highlighted with an enhanced border 52, and a balloon 54
20 appears adjacent portrait 33. The balloon includes the words YOU'RE A WINNER! This
   $5 win is applied to credit meter 42 in Fig. 4 thus incrementing it by $5. After a brief
   pause to permit the player a moment of celebration, the display depicted in Fig. 4,
   except for menu button 38, denomination panel 40, and credit meter 42, moves
   downwardly from the top of the screen thereby covering two rows of losing
25 combinations and the row of winning combinations and presents the player with an
   opportunity to play the next round. In short, the screen again appears as depicted in Fig.
   4 and the player is ready for another round as described above.
            If, however, there is no winning combination in the three rows, once all three are
   revealed and finger 28 lifts from the screen, the display depicted in Fig. 2, except for
                                                  8

   menu button 38, denomination panel 40, and credit meter 42, moves downwardly from
   the top of the screen thereby covering the three rows of losing combinations and
   presents the player with an opportunity to play the next round. Because this is a $1
   game, the credit meter is decremented by the wager, i.e., by $1.
 5          In an alternative embodiment, whether or not any of the revealed rows comprise
   a winning combination of symbols, either or both of the game responses described
   above may occur at the end of the swipe, even before the finger is lifted from the screen.
            Still another noteworthy feature is sound effects. One such effect accompanies
   the appearance of each row. In the present embodiment, an audio effect generated by
10 device 24 comprises a drip sound, each drip sound varying slightly in pitch and tone
   quality from the preceding one. Downward swiping slowly reveals the portion of the
   display where the symbols appear. The sound occurs simultaneously with the
   appearance of the symbols. This provides the user with some satisfying audio feedback
   to indicate the appearance of the current row.
15         Another sound effect occurs substantially simultaneously with the appearance of
   border 52 and balloon 54, namely a brief audio fanfare. This combination of display and
   sound effects highlight the winning game play and gives the player a brief opportunity
   to celebrate.
            In still another game feature, the player may review the results of the previous
20 game with an upward finger swipe in the direction of arrow 56 from the bottom of
   screen 31 as shown in Figs. 8-9. Pay table 34 moves upwardly as shown, to reveal each
   of the rows that appeared in the game just played. In balloon 54, the words PREVIOUS
   GAME! appear. Thus, a player who is rapidly swiping down arrow 44 to present
   outcomes and move to the next game as quickly as possible can, with an upward swipe
25 of the finger, review the outcomes presented in the last game after the pay table drops to
   present the player with an opportunity for further play.
            Finally, the player may select a different game theme with a lateral swipe of the
   finger, in the direction of an arrow 58 as shown in Fig. 10, to the game display on
   screen 31 in Fig. 11. As can be seen, the Ladies Choice game screen moves to the left as
                                                  9

   the finger swipes, and the new game Bar Tab moves in from the right, also as the finger
   swipes. This provides the illusion of a window in which many games, beyond the two
   depicted here, may be shifted laterally into position for play and also shifted laterally
   out of position as the next game in sequence shifts onto screen 31.
 5          Here each of the games has the same pay table with the result of the move to the
   new game of Fig. 11 being simply a change in theme. It should be appreciated that the
   shift from one game to another might be to a game with a different pay table or even a
   different structure altogether, such as incorporating a bonus feature or a game of skill
   mixed with wagering.
10          Depicted in Fig. 12 is another way to play the Ladies Choice game or other
   games on device 24. Device 12 may be held in one hand, e.g., right hand 30. Rather
   than using forefinger 28 to swipe arrow 44 the player's thumb 60 is used. This
   facilitates one-handed playing of the device, which may be helpful in a crowded
   location where a player is standing and perhaps holding a glass in the other hand.
15          Turning now to Fig. 13, indicated generally at 62 is another embodiment of the
   invention, which, like the previously described embodiment, is also implemented in a
   mobile computing device. Also like device 24, Apple Inc. manufactures device 62,
   which is sold under the iPadTM brand. Device 62, however, is larger in size than the
   approximately 4.4 x 2.3 x .3 inches of device 24. Device 62 is approximately 9.5 x 7.3 x
20 .4 inches in size. Although implemented on mobile devices in the present embodiment,
   the present invention may also be implemented in devices in which only some or even
   none are mobile.
            Device 62 includes a screen 64 upon which a game-display home screen 65 is
   shown, namely the Mystic Sevens game. Device 64 also includes a built-in camera
25 having a lens 66 and a home button 68 for controlling various aspects of the device.
   Additional controls, not visible, control volume, screen rotation, power, etc.
            The displays in Figs 14-18 depict sequential views of a game selection
   operation, which permits the player to see a home screen for each of five games, and
   quickly select one of the games to play. As can be seen in Fig. 14, the home screen 65
                                                 10

   for the Mystic SevensTM game is front and center on screen 64. In addition to the home
   screen, a title 70 appears above screen 65 and a brief description of the game 72 appears
   below. Home screen displays are visible for each of four additional games, Treasures of
   the JungleTM 74, Old Glory: Stars and BarsTM 76, SlidewaysTM 78, and Big Money
 5 HeistTm 80.
           As can be seen in Figs. 14-18, it is possible to move each of the game home
   screens into a front and center position, as shown in Figs. 14-18, by moving each home
   screen in sequence from the right side of screen 64, to the front and center position, and
   then to the left side of screen 64. This is accomplished using the Cover Flow® software
10 component for browsing the contents of a library of video files provided by Apple Inc.
   with the operating system of device 62. As is known, home screen movement and
   display as described above is accomplished by lateral swipes of a user's finger across
   screen 64 in the direction of desired movement.
           When a user wishes to play one of these games, the home screen display for that
15 game is positioned front and center as shown for each game in Figs. 14-18. When so
   positioned, the user touches the display with his or her finger and the game begins. For
   example, a user wishing to play Big Money Heist laterally swipes screen 64 until the Big
   Money Heist home screen is in the position of Fig. 18. When so positioned, the user
   touches home screen display 80 in Fig. 18, and the game software is loaded for play.
20 When ready to play, home screen display 80 fills screen 64 similar to the view of Fig.
   19.
           Big Money Heist is a multiple pull-tab game that incorporates pull-tabs 82, 84,
   86. In Fig. 19, pull-tabs 82, 84 are opened, with the outcome of the symbol combination
   associated with pull-tab 86 still unknown. In addition to the pull-tabs, display 80
25 includes a pay table 88, which indicates combinations of winning symbols in pull-tab
   outcomes that produce game awards and the amount for each combination.
           The lower portion of display 80 includes both touch-sensitive buttons and
   display panels. Starting at the left, a menu button 90 when pressed exits the Big Money
   Heist game and returns the screen to Cover Flow® mode as shown in each of Figs. 14
                                                  11

   18. This permits the user to laterally swipe thereby scrolling through the home screens
   to select a different game for play.
           A game info button 92 when pressed presents information (not shown in the
   drawings) about the current game, in this case Big Money Heist. Such information may
 5 includes game rules, total number of outcomes in the current deck of outcomes (about
   which, more later), total outcomes remaining, and any other information about the game
   it might be desirable to communicate to the player.
           A denomination button 94 serves both to indicate the amount of each wager and,
   in some games, to permit the player to change the amount wagered. In games with a
10 changeable wager, each time button 94 is touched, it cycles through the possible
   denominations, e.g., $1, $5, $10, in sequence. This changes the amount that appears on
   button 94, and the amount that is wagered on each game. In other embodiments, the
   wager amount is fixed, and button 94 functions only as a display panel, i.e., it is not
   touch sensitive. In such embodiments, it serves merely to inform that player of the
15 amount of the wager for all games played.
           Credit meter 96 indicates to the player the amount of credit available for game
   play. This includes an initial amount applied to the game when the player first begins
   play using device 62. The way in which initial credits are applied is described in more
   detail after this initial description of game play. Credit meter 96 also includes credits
20 that result from game awards. As a result, the credit meter decrements in the amount of
   the wager each time a game is played. And it increases by the amount of an award when
   a winning outcome is produced.
           A win meter 98 indicates the total win for each game played. In other words, it
   indicates the amount that is applied to credit meter 96.
25         Finally, a touch-sensitive button 100 is used to play a game. At the outset, after
   Big Money Heist is loaded and before any games are played, the message on button 100
   reads: "Buy Tab." Regardless of how tabs 82, 84, 86 appear when the game is first
   loaded, pressing button 100 decrements credit meter 96 by the amount of the
   denomination button 94. It also results in each of tabs 82, 84, 86, appearing as tab 86 in
                                                  12

   Fig. 19. In other words, the combination of symbols that comprises the outcome for
   each tab is not yet revealed, and each of the tabs bears the "Touch to Open" message. In
   addition, the message on button 100 changes from "Buy Tab" to "Open," as shown in
   Fig. 19.
 5          Tabs 82, 84, 86 may be opened in at least two ways as a result of the touch
   sensitivity of screen 64. First, as instructed by the message on each tab, the player can
   touch the screen over the image of each tab, one at a time. Each time a tab is so touched,
   an image of the outcome associated with that tab appears. This image will be a
   combination of symbols that appear in pay table 88, although it is possible for additional
10 symbols not shown in the pay table to appear. Those symbols, however, will always be
   part of a losing outcome for the tab in question.
            Second, the tabs may be opened much more rapidly with a single vertical swipe
   of the player's finger. The finger may be placed on the screen on the top tab 82 or the
   bottom tab 86 and swiped vertically down or up, respectively, across both of the other
15 two tabs. As the finger crosses the tab the outcome is revealed, thus providing for rapid
   game play.
            In this variation, the swipe can start either above or below the top or bottom tab,
   respectively and swipe across that tab, through the middle tab, and onto the remaining
   tab. The swipe need not entirely cross the tab to open it; it need only come onto the
20 screen above the image of the tab for the tab to open.
            In addition, swiping can start on middle tab 84 and go either up or down across
   the other tab thereby opening only two tabs with a single swipe.
            Once the results associated with each tab are displayed, i.e., tab 86 also includes
   four symbols, like tabs 82, 84 in Fig. 19, the outcome for the game is known. Any tabs
25 that show one of the combinations on pay table 88 is a winner, and the amount in the
   pay table associated with that combination is added to credit meter 96. As the credit
   meter increments, a win fanfare and associated audio celebration accompanies the view
   of the incrementing credit meter.
                                                   13

           Once all the tabs are revealed, and any credits resulting from a win are added to
   credit meter 96 as described above, the display on screen 64 can be a rotating view of
   symbols in each of the symbol position, which functions as an attract screen. Or it can
   simply display the outcome of the preceding game. Either way, button 100 now displays
 5 the "Buy Tab" message, and when pressed, a new game is initiated and played as
   described above.
           When the player wishes to play a different game, e.g., Mystic Sevens, he or she
   pushes menu button 90, and the screen returns to the Cover Flow® mode as shown in
   each of Figs. 14-18. This permits the user to laterally swipe thereby scrolling through
10 the home screens until Mystic Sevens is front and center as shown in Fig. 14. When
   screen 64 is touched over the home screen image of Mystic Sevens, that game is loaded.
   With reference to Fig. 20, the touch-sensitive buttons and meters that correspond
   generally to those described and explained in Fig. 19 bear the same numeral in Fig. 20.
   When Mystic Sevens is first loaded it appears generally as shown in Fig. 20, except that
15 button 100 says "Buy Tab" rather than "Open," and a combination of four symbols from
   those shown in pay table 104 appear. This may be a predefined combination, the results
   from the previous play of Mystic Sevens, or an attract screen that may or may not
   incorporate symbols.
           Mystic Sevens is a single pull-tab game that includes a pull-tab 102, the outcome
20 of which is obscured (i.e., the pull-tab is closed) in Fig. 20, but shown (i.e., the pull-tab
   is open) in Figs. 21-23. In addition to pull-tab 102, display 65 includes a pay table 104,
   which indicates combinations of winning symbols in pull-tab outcomes that produce
   game awards and the amount for each combination.
           It also includes a bonus feature 106, which is triggered from time to time during
25 game play. Game play is initiated by pushing button 100 when it displays the "Buy
   Tab" message (not shown).
           Doing so, as in Big Money Heist, decrements credit meter 96 by $1, the amount
   of the wager displayed on button 94. In addition, the screen image at pull-tab 102 is as
   shown in Fig. 20 with the words "Touch to Open or Push Open Button." At this stage,
                                                  14

   the player may either push button 100 or touch the screen image at pull-tab 102. Doing
   either one reveals the symbol combination purchased by the current wager, which is
   shown in Fig. 21. In Fig. 21, the symbol combination matches the top award of $150,
   which is applied to the credit meter.
 5         Fig. 22 depicts the game after a number of further plays, the most recent of
   which triggered bonus feature 106 as a result of a symbol 108 appearing as one of the
   revealed symbols on pull-tab 102. When the bonus is triggered, a message "Push to
   Start" appears on bonus feature 106. Touching the screen over this message initiates a
   bonus sequence in which a plurality of different dollar amounts are displayed in
10 sequence as shown for the $50 depicted on the bonus feature in Fig. 23. The sequence is
   accompanied by an audio sound with the appearance of each number. It begins rapidly
   and then gradually slows to a final number, thus creating suspense about which number
   will remain. After the last and therefore winning number appears, the word "Win"
   appears above the number as shown in Fig. 23, and a brief fanfare accompanied by
15 some visual brightening of the display provides a brief moment of celebration for the
   win.
           Alternatively, the bonus can be provided as a multiplier of the wagered amount.
   Whichever way the bonus is presented, after the win presentation, the "Buy Tab"
   message again appears on button 100, and the game is ready for further play as
20 described above.
           As a further alternative, the bonus feature may start automatically after
   conclusion of the game in which the bonus symbol appears as one of the revealed
   symbols.
           Figs. 24-27 display screens during play of Old Glory: Stars and Bars. It can be
25 selected for play in the same manner as described above for selecting another game to
   play. The Old Glory game is essentially the same game as Mystic Sevens but with a
   different theme. As a result, the screen images depicted in Figs. 24-27 correspond
   generally to the screen images shown in Figs. 20-23, respectively. Corresponding
                                                15

   numerals are used to identify corresponding portions of the depicted screen images.
   Play of Old Glory is substantially the same as play of Mystic Sevens.
            Turning now to Figs. 28-30, screen images from the game Treasures of the
   Jungle are shown. This is a multiple pull-tab game with a bonus feature. It is selected
 5 using the Cover Flow® mode as described above. Once selected, an initial screen 74
   similar to that shown in Fig. 28 appears. The symbols that appear on each of pull-tabs
   are predefined or, as with the other games, may comprise the symbols produced in the
   last play of the last game, or may be an attract screen. In any event, button 100 as with
   the other games, first appears with the "Buy Tab" instruction. After that button is
10 depressed, thereby initiating a multiple tab game, pull-tabs 108, 110, 112 each appear
   like pull-tab 112, i.e., with a "Touch to Open" instruction prior to revelation of the
   symbol combinations that comprise the outcome for each pull-tab.
            Then the player can touch each tab or swipe to open as described above in
   connection with playing Big Money Heist. In the screen image of Fig. 28, tabs 108, 110
15 are each opened thus revealing the symbol combinations for each pull-tab, with pull-tab
   108 being a $20 winner.
           After further continued play, not shown, the bonus feature is triggered when one
   or more tiki-head symbols 114 appear on each of pull-tabs 108, 110, 112 (also not
   shown). Immediately thereafter, a bonus-screen image 116 appears as shown in Fig. 29.
20 Once the player pushes a touch-sensitive button 118 marked "Push to Start," a bonus
   screen image 120 in Fig. 30 appears.
           As soon as screen image 120 appears the words "Choose a Treasure Chest" are
   superimposed over the image thus prompting the player to touch one of the treasure
   chests, like treasure chest 122, in Fig. 30. Doing so results in a quick animation of the
25 lid opening to reveal gold and other treasure within along with a dollar amount that
   appears over the treasure chest, indicating the amount awarded in response to touching
   that treasure chest.
            The dollar amount also appears in a bonus meter 124 in the upper left corner of
   Fig. 30. After chest 122 opens, the prize is indicated over the chest as shown, and the
                                                 16

    total added to bonus meter 124, treasure chest 122 closes, and the "Choose a Treasure
    Chest" instruction is again superimposed over the image again prompting the player to
    touch a treasure chest. This could be the same chest previously chosen or a different
    one. After doing so the bonus amount again appears over the chest and is added to
 5 bonus meter 124.
             In some bonus rounds, there might be the opportunity to choose only one
    treasure chest, after which the game reverts to regular play as described in connection
    with Fig. 28. The number of chests presented to the player and the cumulative amount
    of the bonus may vary for each bonus round, depending on the game design, which will
10 be discussed further hereinafter.
             Turning now to Figs. 31-33, somewhat schematic screen images from the game
   Slideways are shown. This is an entertainment game, which may have an element of
    skill, combined with a single pull-tab wagering game, which-in the present
    embodiment-produces only random outcomes. The Slideways game is selected using
15  the Cover Flow® mode as described above. Once selected, an initial screen 78, in Fig.
    31, appears. Previously numbered buttons and meters retain the same identifying
    numeral and a similar function in Fig. 31.
             The Slideways game includes a grid of differently cut and colored jewels on a
    game-board image 126. Image 126 is touch sensitive and produces an impression of
20  movement of one jewel in the grid to an adjacent spot in the grid in one of four
    directions: up, down, left, or right. Such movement is accomplished when a player
    touches the selected jewel and drags it to its new location. When so moved, the jewel
    stays at its new location, and the jewel previously there automatically moves to the
    location of the moved jewel. In short, the jewels trade places.
25           The object here is to align three or more identical jewels in a single straight row.
    For example, opals 128, 130, 132 are not aligned as shown in Fig. 31. Touching opal
    132 and moving it straight up to the adjacent location on board 126 results in three
   jewels in a row, as shown in Fig. 33. When a player makes this move, a pull-tab panel
    134, in Fig. 33, appears over a central portion of board 126. It bears the words "Touch
                                                   17

    to Open." When the player does so, a three-symbol combination is revealed, which
   pays, or not, according to the game's pay table. Any awards increment credit meter 98.
            Screen image 78 includes a game-score meter 136, which increments each time
   jewels are aligned as described above. In addition, a horizontal bar graph 138
 5  increments proportional to the score displayed in the game-score meter. As game play
    continues, each time an alignment of three or more jewels is made, score meter 136
    increments, as does bar graph 138, and the player is presented with a three-symbol pull
    tab, which he or she touches to open thereby revealing the symbols as shown in Fig. 33.
            A touch-sensitive hint button 140 may be used to receive a hint of where a jewel
10  may be moved to create an alignment of three or more jewels. In response to depressing
   button 140, red brackets (not shown) appear around a jewel that could be so moved.
            After the symbols are revealed, the credit meter reflects an award, if any, and the
    aligned jewels disappear. The jewels immediately above the empty positions drop to fill
    those spaces, and new jewels appear to fill the resulting empty spaces in the top line of
15 jewels, when the player-created alignment was horizontal, or in the top several lines,
    when the player-created alignment was horizontal.
            In addition, when the newly appearing jewels create additional alignments of
    three or more jewels, score meter increments accordingly, although in the present
    embodiment, additional opportunities to reveal the pull-tab are not presented until the
20 player makes a further alignment by touching and dragging a jewel, as described above.
            The Slideways game may incorporate the features of US Application No.
    12/718,792 filed on March 5, 2010, for Entertainment Game-Based Gaming Device
    which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
            Before turning attention to the details of operating pull-tab games according to
25  the present invention, consideration will first be given to the structure containing the
    system used to control, operate, and account for the games. This structure is
    implemented primarily in two locations, the first at a venue where the games are played
    and the second at a central location that provides data needed to play the games; that
    accounts for credits applied to the games, wagers made, and awards granted; and that
                                                  18

   maintains logs for virtually all transactions on the games. Of course, this structure could
   be implemented at a single location.
            In Fig. 34, a schematic diagram, indicated generally at 142, depicts a venue at
   which player terminals 144, 146, 148 may be used to play games, like those described
 5 above. Fig. 34 is illustrative of one venue; the present invention may incorporate many
   hundreds, or even thousands of such venues. And although the present embodiment is
   implemented at venues that contain relatively few player terminals, e.g., 6-12, it is
   equally well suited for venues, such as casinos, that contain thousands of gaming
   devices or terminals.
10           In the present embodiment, the terminals are substantially identical to device 62
   described above. A person affiliated with venue 142 or with a charity that benefits from
   the gaming conducted there operates a cashier terminal 150. Of course, any person,
   regardless of affiliation, could operate the cashier terminal. A ticket printer 152, which
   communicates in a known manner with cashier terminal 150, may be used in some
15 embodiments to purchase credits and redeem credits and awards as will be shortly
   described. A computer 154 can access data generated by the system to review status
   and/or to print reports based on data collected by the system. Finally, terminals 146-150
   and computer 154 each communicate via the Wi-Fi standard with a wireless router 156,
   which in turn communicates with the Internet via a secure connection in the present
20 case SSL.
            Another computer 159 also communicates with the Internet to obtain reports and
   logs. Computer 159 may be used by regulators, a charity that benefits from the gaming
   at venue 142, by a manager or operator of the system, or different computers so
   connected may be used by all or any of them.
25          A central system, indicated generally at 160 in Fig. 35, is connected to venue
   142 by a secure Internet connection 162. Central system 160 may be anywhere but an
   ideal place is a colocation center, which provides equipment space, high-speed Internet
   connections, power, cooling, and physical security for the central system. Regardless of
   its location, the central system includes a firewall server 164. Among other things the
                                                 19

   firewall server receives Internet communications from gaming venues, like venue 142,
   and appropriately routes those communications when received.
           The firewall server is connected to each of a plurality of real-time servers 166,
   168, 170, 172. As can be seen by the dots between servers 170, 172, there may be any
 5 number of such servers, which reflects the load on central system 160. Put differently
   the more venues, like venue 142, are associated with system 160, the more real-time
   servers are required. It is possible, but not necessary, for each venue to be associated
   with a different one of the real-time servers, i.e., there is one-to-one correspondence of
   each venue with an associated real-time server. In addition to collecting data from each
10 venue, there is a real-time server dedicated to each of the following tasks:
       *   receiving initial traffic (in some embodiments) from all of the venues and
           routing it to the real-time server associated with the venue from which the data
           in TCP/IP data packets was received (referred to as Usher thus suggesting the
15         function served);
       *   manufacturing of decks from which game outcomes are selected in response to a
           wager placed at a venue with which the deck is associated, consolidation of data
           from selected venues, as stored on different ones of the real-time servers, and
20         web interface;
       e   processing client download requests;
       *   a logger for logging all transactions; and
25
       e   utility operation.
                                                 20

           As a result of the possibilities associated with distributed computing using
   virtual servers, these tasks may be divided in many ways among virtual or real servers
   and may be provided from different locations.
           Each real-time server is associated with a SQL database 174, 176, 178, 180.
 5 Finally, each of the real-time servers communicates with a central server 182 that
   collects accounting data and other information that can be used to generate reports. All
   of the servers can be implemented in a virtual environment using commercially
   available software. This provides a scalable and extensible platform that is backed up on
   a separate physical machine that can accommodate the software components in the
10 event of a hardware failure. Central system 160 also includes a storage area network
   (not shown) in which data can be stored and from which it is accessed.
           Before describing a typical gaming session and the functions performed by a
   game operator at a gaming venue such as a bar or restaurant, consideration will first be
   given to how a venue, such as venue 142, is initially configured and installed and the
15 manner in which information flows between the venue and central system 160.
           After a venue agrees to install the components shown in Fig. 34 to enable it to
   offer gaming along the lines described above, a distributor (or other installer, which
   may of course include the manufacturer) of the gaming system configures the
   equipment in Fig. 34. The distributor thereafter installs it at venue 142 as shown in Fig.
20 34.
           Before transporting the equipment to the venue, the distributor associates a serial
   number with each terminal, like terminals 144, 146, 148, 150 in Fig. 34. These serial
   numbers are entered into memory associated with and accessible by central system 160.
   The MAC address for each device is also entered. In addition, the charity associated
25 with venue 142, the venue name, and a state gambling license for each are entered.
   Finally, a port on one of the real-time servers is associated with the venue by its port
   number and entered. As will be seen, each venue is associated with a different port
   number. This facilitates routing of messages.
                                                 21

           In addition to the iPads, additional hardware, such as printer 152, when required,
   and router 156 are pulled from the distributor's inventory. The router is set with an
   SSID, which identifies the local area network at the venue. In addition password
   protection is also set up, and the iPads are configured to communicate with router 156.
 5         Next the software that implements the games described above is installed, and
   the terminals are locked down. This limits the ability of the iPad to run programs other
   than the games described above.
           The hardware so configured is delivered to the venue and installed. First, router
   156 is connected to the Internet via and Internet Service Provider, which is typically
10 contracted for by the hosting venue. The ISP assigns an IP address, which may be a
   CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) block address. After the address is assigned,
   the installer determines the address by, e.g., using web service such as
   www.whatismyip.com. After the address is determined, it is entered into central system
   160. Security can be increased by placing a phone call to a work place maintained by
15 the distributor, verbally communicating the IP address, and having that person manually
   enter the address into system 160 thereby associating it with the venue, which has
   already been identified in system 160, and with the other information that was entered
   by the distributor, which is described above.
           In addition, system 160 associates one of real-time servers 166-172 with the site.
20 This designates the server upon which data received from the site is first stored as it
   arrives at system 160. This is accomplished by assigning a different virtual port number
   for each site, which will be soon described. Finally, the venue is enabled and ready for
   play.
           Before describing the procedure for initiating game play and the interaction of
25 the hardware, further consideration needs to be given to the data packets that are
   generated at venue 142, the manner in which they are communicated to system 160, and
   how they are processed there. Venue 142 and system 160 are implemented with client
   server architecture. The clients at venue 142 connect to central system 160 over Internet
   158 using HTTPS over TCP/IP. None of the terminals can communicate with central
                                                22

   system 160 unless their MAC addresses have been entered as described above. The Wi
   Fi service enabled by router 156 uses WPA encryption.
            The central system provides various web services that may be accessed in
   remote sites as well as a suite of functions that supply or support supply of games to
 5 players as described above. Data generated as a result is stored at central system 160
   and may include financial data, player credit balances, game play history, and electronic
   pull-tab decks from which game outcomes are selected and delivered to a player
   terminal at venue 142 in response to game play there.
            Here is an example to illustrate how data flows as described above. Assume the
10 CIDR block address assigned to the venue is 8.2.4.2/3 1, and the IP address for firewall
   164 is 66.172.18.11. In addition to each of these addresses, each real-time server 166
   172 has an associated private-network address. Here assume real-time server 166 has
   the private-network address 10.1.8.2, real-time server 168 has 10.1.8.3, with each
   successive server continuing with additional private-network addresses.
15          It will be recalled that when venue 142 was configured, it was associated with a
   port number different from the virtual port number for any other venue. Every data
   packet coming from venue 142 includes that virtual port number, as part of the data
   carried by the packet but not as a socket address on firewall 166. Firewall 166 listens for
   packets from all of the venues on a single dedicated port, e.g., port 8080. As a result, the
20 real socket to which all data from all of the venues is addressed is 66.172.18.11: 8080.
   What might be thought of as a virtual socket comprises the real IP address,
   66.172.18.11, combined with the virtual port address, e.g., 66.172.18.11: 10,000.
            When a data packet comes from venue 142 to system 160, firewall 160 checks
   its memory to determine whether the source address for the data packet is in the table
25 that is created by adding each venue CIDR block address as the venue is configured and
   enabled for play. If the source address for the packet is not in this table, the packet is
   rejected. If it is in the table, the usual TCP handshake is performed to establish a
   connection.
                                                  23

           Once the connection is established, the data packet is passed to the Usher real
   time server, which controls packet distribution to the real-time server that is associated
   with the venue from which the packet originated. The Usher server receives all packets
   passed by the firewall. It maintains a table that associates the virtual port number in
 5 each data packet with the real-time server associated with the venue from which the
   data packet originated.
           Considering the sequence described above, the data packet bearing socket
   destination address 66.172.18.11: 8080 is received at the firewall. Its origination address
   is the CIDR block number assigned to the venue, e.g., 8.2.4.2/31. The data packet also
10 includes a port from which the packet originated, which is not relevant for our purposes.
   Once the packet is confirmed to be from a venue that is registered with system 160 it
   immediately routes to the Usher real-time server, which includes a table that associates
   each packet with a real-time server that is in turn associated with the venue from which
   the packet originated.
15         For example, two consecutive incoming data packets each have a real socket
   address of 66.172.18.11: 808. But the virtual socket addresses are 66.172.18.11: 10,000
   and 66.172.18.11: 10,001. The port number 10,000 is associated with a first venue, e.g.,
   Joe's Bar & Grill, from which that data packet originated; and the port number 10,001 is
   associated with a second venue, e.g., Katy's Fine Dining, from which that data packet
20 originated.
           Each of the virtual sockets is mapped to real socket on a different one of the
   real-time servers. Here, for example, are mappings on each of the two consecutive
   addresses:
25                 66.172.18.11: 10,000 4        10.1.8.2: 8080
                   66.172.18.11: 10,001    +     10.1.8.3: 8080
           As a result, data from each venue is routed to an associated real-time server. As
   an alternative to associating a virtual port number to a venue when the venue is
                                                 24

   configured, as described above, the system 160 can assign a virtual port number to the
   first packet received at firewall 164 from the site. The virtual port number can then be
   returned to the venue via the Internet, and all future communications from the venue can
   include the virtual port number. It should be noted that different types of services
 5 beyond providing pull-tab games could be provided to each or some of the venues. If so,
   other servers besides the pull-tab server, or in addition thereto, could be made available
   to the incoming data packets via appropriate entries in the Usher tables.
            Some of the data collected from the venues and routed to the respective real
   time servers is moved from there to central server 182. This permits the central server to
10 be used to generate reports without slowing the real-time servers, which must be
   available to transact wagering and game play at each server's associated venue. All of
   the data is routed from each real-time server to the central server in a guaranteed
   delivery queue. This queue backs up if central server 182 is busy, and therefore slow to
   receive new data, or slow for a technical reason, or down, i.e., not receiving any data.
15 When the central server is down, the queue for delivery of data from one of the real
   time servers to the central server can back up and be quite long. It can take many
   minutes to clear the queue if the central server has been down.
            Some data, e.g., all financial and wagering transactions, must be delivered and
   stored at the central server. As a result, this data goes only in the guaranteed-delivery
20 queue. There is a second queue from each real-time server to the central server known
   as the priority delivery queue. Certain types of data that are not critical, e.g., are sent in
   a priority queue. Critical data, such as financial and wagering transactions must be
   delivered ultimately even if the central server is down. If down, the guaranteed delivery
   queue backs up and can take as much as three hours, or even longer to deliver once the
25 central server is again operational. But this data is critical and must be preserved and
   stored regardless of the time when it arrives.
            Data in the priority queue, however, is desirable to deliver quickly but would not
   prove disastrous if lost. One example of such data is related to employees who operate
   the cashier terminal. Because some venues operate multiple locations, e.g., a chain of
                                                  25

   restaurants, and have employees move from one location to another, records for each
   employee are stored on central server, including records relating to logging in and out as
   an operator of cashier terminal 150, which must occur before he or she can process
   transactions there. Each log-in command is sent via router 156, the Internet, and firewall
 5 164 as described above to one of the real-time servers 166-172 associated with the
   venue at which the employee is attempting to log-in, and from there to central server
   160, which stores employee records and responds to log-in commands.
            If data in the guaranteed delivery queue is backed up, and the log-in commands
   were in that queue, the employee could not log-in as a result of the backed up queue that
10 delays delivery to central server 160, which tracks and controls logging in and out. But
   log-in commands are in the priority queue. As a result, when the guaranteed delivery
   queue is backed up, e.g., after the central server has been down for a while, the priority
   queue delivers the log-in command much more quickly, thus allowing the employee to
   log-in.
15          On the other hand, if the central server is down, when the log-in attempt is
   made, the log-in command is lost as is any other data in the priority queue. That queue
   does not store and back up waiting commands; it just rapidly delivers whatever is in the
   queue, and if the server on the receiving end is down, that data is lost. But if the
   command were in the guaranteed-delivery queue, the log-in command could not happen
20 either, so no harm is done, and logging in occurs quickly once the central server is up
   again, and a log-in command is sent.
            But loss of financial data is unacceptable, and it must go in the guaranteed
   delivery queue. In some embodiments, certain types of data can go in both queues. In
   addition, some embodiments enable communications in both directions for both the
25 priority and guaranteed queues.
            Following are exemplary reports that can be compiled from data contained on
   the system and especially in the database associated with central server 160.
                                                 26

                          Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                   Active Deck Report
                                     september 9, 2012 12:34 AM
Active Decks
Site ID Game ID Deck ID Game   Game Name Wager
 20012        1    1001      6 Slideways 3   $1.00
 20012        1    1002    450 Slideways 3   $100
 20012        2    1003    564 Slideways 4   $1.00
 20012        2    1004    123 Slideways 4   $100
 20012        2    1005   1234 Slideways 4   $1.00
 20012        3    1006   6543 Slideways 5   $1.00
 20012        3    1007   7412 Slideways 5   $100
 20012        4    1008   4563 Slideways 3   $025
 20012        4    1009   5412 Slideways 3   $025
 20012        4    1010    256 Slideways 3   $0.25
 20012        5    1011   1456 Slideways 4   $025
 20012        5    1012   1756 Slideways 4   $025
 20012        6    1013    368 Slideways 5   $025
 20012        6    1014    356 Slideways 5   $0.25
 21024        1    1101      6 Slideways 3   $100
 21024        1    1102    450 Slideways 3   $1.00
 21024        2    1103    564 Slideways 4   51.00
 21024        2    1104    123 Slideways 4   $1.00
 21024        2    1105   1234 Slideways 4   $100
 21024        3    1106   6543 Slideways 5   $1.00
 21024        3    1107   7412 Slideways 5     1.00
 21024        4    1108   4563 Slideways 3   $0.25
 21024        4    1109   5412 Slideways 3   $0.25
 21024        4    1111    256 Slideways 3   $.25
 21024        5    1111   7456 Slideways 4   $0.25
 21024        5    1112   1756 Slideways 4   $0.25
                                           Report 1
                                                       27

                                                       Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab
                                                                 Closed Deck Report
                                                                  09/04/2012    ttim     090412012
  Site ID   Name                Game ID   Name                                               Deck ID Wager Sold Unsold Payout                 Open        Close
  141       Rosevile  Bingo Hal 3         Sdeways 3 $100                                     121      5100          0      7500  0.00%   G0830/2012   09/0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  3         Sideways 3 5100                                    122      5 1.00        D      7500  0.00%   0813&12012   09104/2012
  142       Meolis              3         SIdeways 3 51.00                                   123      5 100         0      7500  000%    GW302012     0810412012
  142       Memphlis            3         Skdeways 3 51.00                                   124      5 100         0      7500  000%    0W8302012    09D412012
  141       Rosevie Bingo Hal   4         Sideway 3 50.50                                    126      50.50         0      7500  000%    08130/2012   09104/2012
  141       Roseile Bingo Hal   4         Skdeways   3 5050                                  12T      50.50         0      7500  000%    GW30/2012    09/0412012
  142       Memnpilis           4         Slideways  3 50.50                                 128      50.50         0      7500  000%    08/3012012   D91D412012
  142       Mempilis            4         Sideways   3 50.50                                 129      50.50         0      7500  0.00%   08/302012 0910412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  30        Sdeways    3 52.0                                  131      5200          0      7500  000%    08/3012012 09/0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  30        Sideways   3 52.00                                 132      52.00         0      7500  000%    08/3012012   09D4212
  142       Menilis             30        SIdeways   3 52 00                                 133      5200          0      7500  000%    08/3012012   D910412012
  142       Mempilis            30        Sdeways    3 52.0                                  134      5200          0      7500  000%    08/3012012   09/0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  12        Treasres   of the Jungle S1.0                      136      51.00         0      7500  000%    08/30/2012   09)0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  12        Trea-aesoflhe Jungle $1.0-                         137      51.00         D      7500  000%    08/30/2012   09)0412012
  142       Memplis             12        Tresres of the Jungle $1.00                        138      5100          0      7500  000%    08/30/2012   09/0412012
  142       Mempiis             12        Treasres of the Jungle $1.0-                       139      51.00         0      7500  000%    08/30/2012   09)0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  34        Treasres of ihe Jungle S2.00                       141      52.00         0      7500  000%    08/3012012   09D412012
  141       Rosevile Bwngo Hal  34        Treasaes of the Jungle $2.00                       142      52.00         0      7500  0.00%   08/3012012   DaD412012
  142       Mempilis            34        Treasures of the Jungle $2-.00                     143      52.00         0      7500  0.00%   08/30r2012   D9D412012
  142       Mempilis            34        Treasres of the Jungle $2.00                       144      52.00         0      7500  0.00%   G830/2012    09)0412012
  141       Rosevile Bingo Hal  15        Old Glory 51.00                                    146      51.00         0      7500  0.00%   08130r2012   D9D412012
  141       Rosevile Biugo Ha   15        Old Glory $101                                     147      5100          0      7500  0.00%   083012012    09)0412012
  142       Mempilis            15        Old Glory 31.00                                    148      5 100         0      7500  0.00%   G8302012     09)0412012
                                                                             Page 1 of 2                                                     09105/2012
                                                                       Report 2
                                                 Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                                              Charity List With Sites
                                                                   September   9,   2012 12:34 AM
      Charity Name                     License Number                         Address                   City/Statejzip                       Phane
                                       Wehsite                                Charity Manager           Email                                Phone
                                       Site ID Site Name                      Address                   CityjStatef2ip                       Phone
      Anerican Legion                  123ABC                                 1234 Legion Drive        Somewhere. MN 98765-4321              19H7)555-1212
                                       wwarncan legion.org                    Charles Smith            c2ith3aericanlegion             org   (234)567-8900
                                       21010 joe-s Bar                        123    Second  Street     Somewhere. MN 98765                  (897)321-9H75
                                       21013 Clay. Club                       223    Second  Sreet      Somewhere, MN 98765                  (897)321-9H55
                                       21014 Vacation Bar                     128    Second  Street     Somewhere, MN 98765                  (897)321-4565
                                       21017      Mary's Lounge               143    Second  Street     somewhere. MN 99755                  (897)321-345(
      Minnesota School for the Deaf 455XYZ                                    5678 Minnesota Street     Elsewhere. MN 90745-4321             (456)555-1212
                                       wwwrendeafandblindschoolorg Andrea               Longeens       andreal@gnail com                     (654)59-1123
                                       21011      Frank's Bar and Grill       376 Third Street          Elsewhere. MN 99745                  (827)221-9226
                                       21023      Piano Lounge                223 Third Street          Elsewhere.       MN   98745          (827)322-9225
                                       21034     Golf    2ar                  6548 Country Club Drive Elsewhere. MN 99745                    (896)326-665
      Veterans  9oForeign Wars         7890LMNOP                              9876 Veterans Read       Someplace, MN 98654-4321              1447)544--1442
                                       wwwvfw.org                             Captain John Johnson     ejj@fw.org                            (254)565-8955
                                       21035 Blarney Club                     113 Broadway              Someplace, MN 98654                  (867)361-9575
                                       21038 Viling's Den                     223 Underbelly Drive     Someplace. MN 98654                   (797)371-7755
                                       21047     The Brass Bar                7762 Second Street        Someplace. MN 98654                  (887)621-458H
5
                                                                       Report 3
                                                                            28

                            -    Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                             Deck Inventory Report
                                               Septem ber 9, 2012 12:34 AM
  Deck Inventory
  Game Name Wager          Game ID       Inventory
  Slideways   3    $1.00            1           30
  Slideways   4    $1.00            2           30
  Slideways   5    $1.00            3           30
  Slideways   3    $0.25            4           30
  Slideways   4    $0.25            5           30
  Slideways   5    $0.25            6           30
                                               Report 4
                                 Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                              View Game Details
                                               September 9. 2012 12:34 AM
  Game Name:                  Slideways 3
  Wager:                              $1.00
  Game ID:                                 1
  Manifest File:          games/slide3.txt
  Status:                Approval Pending
  Games Per Deck:                     7500
  Total Cost Of Games:           $7500.00
  Total Prize Value:             $6375.00
  Prize %:                         85.00%
  Prize Frequency:                  4.43%
  Prize Table
  Number         Prize
           1   $599.00
           5   $500.00
         20    $100.00
         40     $20.00
         15      $5.00
        150      $2.00
        101      $1.00
5
                                               Report 5
                                                   29

                          Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                Game Performance Report
                                       Period: 1/1/2013 - 1131/2013
  Active Games
  Game Name Wager     Game ID   Average         sales       Sales $      P    s # Prizes $ Prize %
                                Win Per DaySaeit            Sls$PieitPie$Prz%
  Slideways   3 $1.00        1       $765.43         543    $543.00            23  $460.00  84.71%
  Slideways   4 $1.00        2       $654.32       1678    $1678.00           265 $1460.00  87.00%
  Slideways   5 $1.00        3       $543.21       2103    $2103.00           245 $1765.00  83.93%
  Slideways   3 $0.25        4       $432.10       1543     $385.75            29  $320.25  83.02%
  Slideways   4 $0.25        5       $321.98       2285     $571.25           123  $485.50  84.99%
  Slideways   5 $0.25        6       $219.87      11026    $2756.50          1012 $2333.25  84.65%
  Disabled Games
  GameNameWager       GareID    W   er          Sales #     Sales $      Prizes # Prizes $ Prize %
  Tic-tac-tie   $0.25        7         $12.34      6543    $1635.75           578 $1382.00  84.49%
  Chess         $0.25        8         $10.98     10567    $2641.75          1011 $2235.75  84.63%
                                      Report 6
                      A    Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                         Pull Tab Games
                                        September 9. 2012 12:34 AM
  Games
  Game Name Wager     Garme ID  Manifest File     Status              Action
  Slideways 3   $1.00         1 games/slide3.txt Active
  Slideways 4   $1.00         2 games/sl ide4.txt Active
  Slideways 5   $1.00         3 games/slide5.txtAcive
  Slideways 3   $0.25         4 games/slide3.txt Active
  Slideways 4   $0.25         5 games/slide4.txt Active
  Slideways 5   $0.25         6 games/slide5.txtActive
  Tic-tac-toe   $0.25         7 games/ttt.txt     Disabled
  Chess         $0.25         B games/chess.txt Disabled
  Tic-tac-toe   $1.00         9 games/tit.txt     Approval Pending
  Chess         $1.00       10  games/chess.txt Approval Pending
5
                                      Report 7
                                          30

                                                             Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab
                                                                           Financial Report
                                                                    -Period:     09/2012 -09/14/2012
   Charity Name         License
          Site ID         Site Name           License PTs      Tickets        Prizes        Net      Pay %      Sells 5 /       #   Redrms $ /      #      Exp $ /     #
   Jarod's Charity      CD023
          144             Jarrods Place       a00023       1    286.50        193.2D       93.30     67.43 %   1,1DD.DD/          2    919.10 1              87.60 fI1
          Charity Total                                    1     286.50       193.20       93.30     67.43 %   1,100.00 1         2    919.10  I      I      8760  /I
   Lions Club #10       1200-23
          142             Memphis             012-         0        O.          0.00        0.0       0.DD%         D.DD /        0       0.00 1      0       D.DD       0
          143             O&Malleys    hIish  012-         0        000         0.00        0.00      D.DD%         D.DD1         0       0.00 1      0       D.DD       0
          Charity Total                                    0        0-00        D-DD        0.00      0.00 %         0
                                                                                                                    D-0           D       0.00 1      0       D-DD/      D
   MN Cancer            012-548-RC
          141             Roseville Bingo     012-485-     0        0.0)        0.00        0.00      D.DD%         D.DD 1        0       0.00 j      0       D.D0 1     0
          Charity Total                                    0        D-00        D-00        0.00      D-DD%         D-D    /      D       0.00        0       D.D /      D
                                                                         Financial Report
                                                                  -Period:     0994/2012 - 09/04/2012
  Charity Name         License
         Site ID         Site Name           License PTs     Tickets       Prizes        Net       Pay %      Sells $ I      #    Redms $ /     #       Exp $ /    #
  Muscular Dystrophy   002
         137             EksLodge            102         4      94.00       128.DD     -34.00    136.17%      1DDD     /       1       0.00 1     0     134.DD /     1
         139             VFW Hall #121       1975-       0       0.00         D.D        0.00      0.DD%         D.DD /        0       0.00 f     0       D.DDI      D
         Charity Total                                   4      94.00       12.00      -34.00    136.17%      100.00 /         1       0.00 I     0     134.00 /     1
  Rotary Club #2 of    2100-105
         140             White Stag Bar & 012-546-       0       0.00         D.D        0.00      0.DD%         DDD /         0       0.00  1    0       D.DD/      D
         Charity Total                                   0        0.00        0.0D       0.00      D.DD%         D.00 /        0       0.00 1     0       D.DD/      D
  Sanitary Fund        10900
         136             Ouffs Taven         162990      2       0.00         D.DD       0.00      D.D %         DDD /         0       0.00 I     0       0.0D /     D
         Charity Total                                   2         .0D        D.DD       0.00      D.DD%         D.DD          0
                                                                                                                               D       0.00       0       D.DDI      D
  Trays                Travis
         135             Travis's Site       42424242    0       0.00         D.DD       0.00      D.DD%         D.DD /        D       0.00 I     0       0.0D /     0
         Charity Total                                   0        0.D0        0.00       (101      D.DD%         D.DD          0       0.00 1     0       D.DD/      D
   Total                                               7     380.50       321.20       59.3G      B4A2 %     1,2D.DD     /            919.10 f             221.60  /
                                                                                                                    3                       1                    2
   Total Nuber of Charities      7
   Total Nurber of Sites         9
5
                                                                             Report 8
                                                                                  31

                           Minnesota Electronic Pull Tab System
                                  Site Configuration Sheet
                                        September 9, 2012 12-34 AM
  Site Details for Acres 40 Bar and Grill
  Site Information
  Name:                   Acres 4.0 Bar and Grill
  Address:                1234 renaya Way
  Crty/State/Zip:         Las Vegas, NV 12345-6789
  Phone:                  (702)555-1212
  Email:                   nanagerta4barandgrillcorn
  Wabsite:                wwwaa4barndgrillcon
  Site 1D:                20001
  License Number-         G54POI
  Site Cashier Usernane:  Acres 4.0 Bar and Grill Cashier I
  Site Cashier Password:  9B76
  Site statis             Disabled
  Site Install Date-      September 1 2012
  Equipment Details
  Willi Router SSID:                    Acres20001
  Wii Router Usernarne:                 Acres 4.0
  Wil-i Router Password                 AcresRocks
  GLA MAC Address-                      1L22:33:44-55:66
  Number of Point Of Sale rermirals:    I
  Point Of Sale ~irminal Serial Number- CVX45LJ32Z
  Number of Player Terminals:           6
  Player Terminal Serial Number-        CVX45LJ33Z
  Player~erminal Serial Number-         CVX45LJ34Z
  Player~erminal Serial Number          CVX45Lj35Z
  Playerlerminal Serial Nurnber-        CVX45LJSGZ
  Player Terminal Serial Numnber-       CVX45LJ37Z
  Player terminal Serial Number-        CVX45LJ3HZ
                                                  Report 9
5
                                                     32

            Consideration will now be given to the manner in which game outcomes are
   generated and selected. The basic game play unit in a pull-tab game is referred to as a
   deck of pull-tab outcomes, i.e., symbol combinations and associated prize amounts, if
   any. In a deck every card, i.e., outcome and any associated prize amount, has the same
 5 purchase price. There are a predefined number of winning cards as well as a predefined
   cumulative prize amount in the deck. A plurality of decks may be generated using a single
   set of deck criteria, which may be referred to as a game ID. In some jurisdictions the
   criteria for generating a deck may be known as a Form Number or Game Set. Regardless
   of nomenclature, the game ID typically includes the following:
10               *  Number of tickets in the deck
                * Name of the game
                *   Description
                * Version
                *   Manufacturer
15              0   Price of a card/ticket
                *   Table of prize amounts, each with a total number of occurrences in the
                    deck
            Each deck generated with a game ID has the same predefined number of winning
20 cards and the same cumulative prize total. The game ID may be generated using known
   mathematical techniques for designing wagering games. Different game IDs can be used
   to create decks that provide different prize-amount volatility and different wager amounts.
            To create a deck, a copy of the prize table from a game ID is made. The prize
   table includes the number of occurrences for each different game prize amount, including
25 outcomes that are a loss. Put differently, the prize table is a list of all possible prize
   amounts-including a loss where $0 is awarded-in the deck to be generated and the
   number of times each prize amount occurs in the deck. In the present embodiment, each
   deck includes 7,500 possible outcomes.
                                                  33

           Next, a different one of the prizes is randomly selected from the prize table and
   placed in the deck under construction. Each prize, including the losses, is placed in
   sequential order until all of the prizes are gone from the copy of the prize table. In other
   words, these selections are made without replacement. This leaves a deck with 7,500
 5 records, each of which includes a prize amount.
           A rendering table associated with the game ID includes a plurality of different
   game outcomes, which are often in the form of symbol combinations for a revealed tab,
   but may also include bonus outcomes, such as those associated with Treasuresof the
   Jungle. The outcomes are grouped according to the prize amount associated with each. In
10 other words, each outcome within a group has one and only one prize amount. After the
   game ID is used to initiate the deck build as described above, each of the 7,500 entries
   (each defining a prize amount) is considered in sequence. For each entry, a random
   selection of a game outcome is chosen from the group of outcomes that have the current
   prize amount in the deck. After being so chosen, the outcome is associated with the entry
15 under consideration. After moving through the entire deck, the cards each include a prize
   amount and an outcome that corresponds to the prize amount.
           During game play, each time a player wagers, a card is chosen in sequence and the
   outcome and associated prize are displayed to the player.
           As an example, suppose a game ID has the following prize-amount distribution:
   Prize Level                        Weight (Number of            Prize Amount
                                      Occurrences)
                                  0                             5                               $0
                                  1_                            2                               $1
                                  2                             1                               $5
                             Total                              8
20
                                                Table 1
                                                  34

           In the above table, the prize level is a number for linking prize amounts in a
   deck to a game outcome, as will be shortly seen. First, create a working distribution
   based upon the game ID:
   Prize Level                                       Weight
                                                 0                                          5
                                                 1                                          2
                                                 2
                                            Total                                           8
 5                                            Table 2
           The algorithm for randomly populating a deck with prize values begins with
   choosing a random number, N, from 0 to X-1, where X is the sum of the weights in the
   working distribution. Next, loop through all the weights, and consider whether N is less
10 than the current weight. If so, the prize associated with this weight is chosen. If not,
   then advance the current weight from N to the next weight. Keep repeating, until N is
   less than the current weight. When that happens, chose the prize at that weight, save it
   in the current position, and deduct 1 from the weight in the working distribution. This
   process is repeated for each prize until the working distribution is empty.
15         For example, considering the above table, begin with choosing a random number
   between 0 and total weight (8) minus 1 (7). A Java based RNG using the well-known
   KISS algorithm is used for random selection. Suppose 3 is randomly chosen. Start by
   looping through the prize levels, first inspecting prize level 0. The current weight for
   prize level 0 is 5. The random number chosen was 3. 3 is less than 5, so prize level 0 is
20 the prize being drawn. Deduct 1 weight from Prize level 0, which results in the
   following working distribution:
                                                  35

   Prize Level                                       Weight
                                                 0                                               4
                                                 1                                               2
                                                 2
                                            Total                                                7
                                                   Table 3
            The deck at this point has one prize and it looks like:
   Prize Index                                       Prize Level
                                                 o                                               0
 5
                                                   Table 4
            To draw the next prize, choose a random number between 0 and the current
   weight (7) minus 1 (6). Suppose 6 is chosen. Again loop through the prize levels, first
10 inspecting prize level 0. The current weight for prize level 0 is 4. The random number
   chosen was 4. 6 is not less than 4, so prize level 0 is not the prize being drawn.
   Subtract from the random number the weight of the current prize level (4), which yields
   a difference of 2. Iterate to the next prize level. 2 is not less than 2, so prize level 1 is
   not the prize being drawn. Subtract from the random number the weight of the current
15 prize (2), which yields a difference of 0. Iterate to the next prize level. 0 is less than 1,
   so prize level 2 is the prize being drawn. Deduct 1 weight from Prize level 2, which
   results in the following working distribution:
                                                  36

   Prize Level                                      Weight
                                                0                                           4
                                                1                                           2
                                                2                                           0
                                            Total                                           6
                                                  Table 5
           The deck at this point has one prize and it looks like:
   Prize Index                                      Prize Level
                                                0 10
 5
                                                  Table 6
           This process is repeated until the total weights reaches 0, which means that all
   the individual weights have amounts of 0.
10
           Continuing the process, a final deck may have an arrangement as:
   Prize Index                                      Prize Level
                                                o                                           0
                                                1                                           2
                                                2                                           0
                                                3                                           0
                                                4                                           1
                                                5                                           1
                                                6                                           0
                                                7                                           0
                                                  Table 7
                                                 37

             Joining the game ID prize amounts, which correspond to the Prize Index, with
   the resulting Deck would yield the following:
   Prize Index                       Prize Level                     Prize Amount
                                  0                               0                             so
                                  1                               2                             $5
                                  2                               0                             $0
                                  3                               0                             $0
                                  4                               1                             $1
          ____ _ _  __5__       _                                 1                             $1
                                  6                               0                             $0
                                  7                               0                             $0
                                                   Table 8
 5
            Now a game outcome must be rendered for each prize index. Suppose that that
   the rendering table for prize level 0 is as follows:
               Render #                         Weight                         Rendering
                   0                               2                         bar-bar-seven
                   1                12                                       bar-seven-bar
                   2                               2                         seven-bar-bar
                   3                               1                        bar-seven-seven
                   4                               1                        seven-bar-seven
                   5                               1                        seven-seven-bar
                 Total                             9
                                                   Table 9
10
             The rendering table is typically a subset of all the possible renderings for a prize
   level, which correlates to a prize amount. It is a subset because there can be many,
   sometimes billions, total possible outcomes, e.g., for a multiple tab game with a bonus.
   The above rendering table in Table 9 can be used to associate a game outcome, symbol
15 combinations and/or bonus result, with each award in the partially completed deck
                                                  38

   shown in Table 8.
            This is accomplished using the same algorithm that populated the deck with
   prize values. Choose a random number from 0 to total weight (9) minus 1 (8). Suppose
   4 is chosen. Iterate though all the renderings. Render 0 has a weight of 2. 4 is not less
 5 than 2, so deduct the weight of render 0 (2) from the random number (4) to yield 2.
   Iterate to the next render (1). Inspect the weight of Render 1, which is 2. 2 is not less
   than 2, so deduct the weight of render 1 (2) from the random number (2) to yield 0.
   Iterate to the next render (2), which has a weight of 2. 0 is less than 2, so render 2 is the
   rendering to apply to the current prize level 0 in the deck. So, this prize will use the
10 rendering of "seven-bar-bar". This same process is completed for each prize index until
   the deck is complete. The processes for generating the prize values and associated
   rendered outcomes can be done in any order, e.g., one first entirely and then the second,
   or each can be completed one after the other when generating each record in the deck.
            In the present embodiment of the system, decks are generated and stored in an
15 inventory of decks in the system memory. This memory is automatically monitored and
   when decks run low, new decks are automatically generated according to the algorithm
   above, mostly after 2AM and before 8AM when gaming is either light or non-existent
   due to regulations that limit gaming hours.
            Finishing now the description of one more aspect of the present implementation, a
20 session ticket 186 in Fig. 36 was printed by printer 152 in Fig. 34. A game manager at
   venue 142 printed ticket 186. The game manager operates cashier terminal 150 and
   dispenses session tickets via the printer, in this case in exchange for the start value printed
   on ticket 186. Tickets may be issued in other amounts.
            Each ticket has the information printed as shown on ticket 186, including a QR
25 code 188. After purchasing the session ticket, a player uses it with a player terminal, like
   device 62 from Fig. 13, to load with credits for game play. Before any play, there is a
   touch-sensitive button that says "Add Credits." When pressed, device 62 turns on the
   camera in device 62 thus activating lens 66. In addition, the device displays an alignment
                                                  39

   grid 190 that includes corner frames 192, 194, 196, 198, and a nonfunctional image of a
   QR code 200.
            When the player, not shown in Fig. 37, moves session ticket 186 in position as
   shown over device 62 an image 202 of the printed matter on the ticket appears on screen
 5 64. This results from the ticket moving over lens 66. As the player continues moving
   ticket 186 in the direction of arrow 204 the QR code image captured by lens 66 and
   displayed on screen 64 approaches alignment with image 200. Doing so triggers QR code
   recognition software in device 62. The QR code software interfaces with the game
   software in a way that applies the credit amount on the ticket to an account on the central
10 system that is associated with the device. Current account value is then reflected to the
   device. Alternatively, or in addition, the account on the central system may be associated
   with a player using player-tracking technology. Thereafter, the player can choose one of
   the games as described above, which will have $80 credit applied to his or her associated
   account on the central system and begin playing the game.
15          In addition to applying credits to a game, a QR code can be used to scan a player's
   card for player tracking purposes. This is necessary here, because these devices do not
   have card readers, and it may be desirable not to add them.
            The system stores all wagers and awards, and debits or credits the account created
   by the deposit for ticket 186 accordingly. At the conclusion of play, the player returns
20 with ticket 186 to the game manager who scans it, in a manner similar to that described in
   connection with Fig. 37, on his or her cashier terminal. This indicates the concluding
   amount in the account, which is given to the player in exchange for the ticket.
           Alternatively, instead of issuing a ticket, the game manager receives money from
   a player and opens an account with an initial cash deposit made by the player. This
25 account is opened on cashier terminal 150, which communicates with the system to apply
   a credit in the amount of the deposit to a player's account, which is on the central system.
   The account is identified by the manager with a play terminal, which the manager then
   gives to the player with the associated credit. The amount of this credit is reflected by the
   central system to the credit meter on the device. The player then commences wagering
                                                  40

   and playing as described above. When the player concludes gaming, he or she returns
   their player's terminal to the game manager who reviews the amount stored in the account
   by the system, using the cashier terminal. This amount is given to the player when the
   player terminal is returned to the game manager.
 5          Consideration will now be given to some of the screen displays that appear on
   cashier terminal 150 in the course of selling sessions, during active sessions, and cashing
   out a player. Fig. 38 is a screen display 206 that appears on cashier terminal 150 before a
   manager logs into terminal 150. Terminal 150 has two display modes-session mode and
   control mode. The control mode is used for logging in and out, locking terminal 150,
10 generating reports, and changing passwords. Icons 208, 210 may be used to switch
   between the modes.
           As can be seen in Fig. 38, showing the screen prior to activating any sessions, and
   Fig. 39, showing the screen with one active session, there is a line for each player
   terminal, like player terminals 144, 146, 148 in Fig. 34. Each line includes the player
15 terminal name, a session ID for any active session, the initial value for any active session,
   and session status, including current cash value.
            Player terminals can be powered up at any time. They may be connected to power
   or run on batteries. When they are powered up, each terminal may request an update
   download. If an update is available, an ACCEPT button (not shown) is presented to the
20 operator. After pressing the download button, an update is downloaded from the central
   system to the player terminal.
            In Figs. 39 and 40, each player line may have a different color. Grey means the
   device has no active session and is available for play. All of the lines in Fig. 38 are grey,
   as are the lines for PT RENO 1 and PT RENO 6 in Figs. 39 and 40. Green means the
25 device has a session active and has had play in the last 5 minutes. Red means the player
   has requested service, either cash out or add cash. PT RENO 3 is red in Fig. 40. And
   yellow means the device has an active session, but has not been played or has not been
   active for 5 minutes. PT RENO 3 is yellow in Fig. 39.
                                                 41

            When the player desires to use a player terminal, the player needs to buy a session
   from the manager, i.e., the operator of cashier terminal 150. When buying a session or
   adding cash to an ongoing session, either the player or the operator must press the HELP
   button in Figs. 14-18, which may alternatively be labeled ADD CASH. After so doing,
 5 the line associated with the player terminal that made the request, PT RENO 3 in Fig. 41,
   turns red and displays "Player has requested to add credits at [time of request.]" Touching
   the red area brings up a selection menu that permits the operator to choose ADD
   CREDITS, at which time the cashier should collect the desired amount from the patron
   and enter the amount into the displayed window. Thereafter, screen display 206 appears
10 as in Fig. 42, and the associated player terminal is ready to play.
            When a player desires to cash out, he or she selects that function button in one of
   the displays of Figs. 14-18. This causes the associated line on display 206 to turn red as
   shown in Fig. 43 for PT RENO 3. When the operator touches the red line on the display, a
   selection menu appears as shown in Fig. 44. After touching the Cashout Credits button,
15 the operator pays the player the amount shown on the right in the red line.
            The system can monitor the condition of each player terminal because it is
   receiving wagers and providing cards from the deck in play. Each player terminal
   generates a token that is included with each data packet sent to the system. This permits
   the system to track wagers, awards, and game play. If the player terminal remains idle for
20 longer than a predefined time, a message appears indicating to the player that he or she
   should play or return the terminal and cash out. The predefined time can vary depending
   on how many terminals are out. If 3 of 6 are out, a longer time can be used. But if all
   terminals are out, a shorter time is more effective to keep game play going on the
   terminals.
25         Also, this could escalate. In other words, if the initial message doesn't either get
   the player to start playing or return the terminal and cash out, the operator or a staff
   person who is notified by the operator or by the color codes on cashier terminal 150 could
   track the player down and inquire about problems, desire for further gaming, etc.
                                                  42

         Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention in a preferred
  embodiment thereof, it should be apparent that the invention can be modified in
  arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. I claim all modifications
  and variation coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.
5        Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
  deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                              43

The claims defining the invention arte as follows:
         1.      A method of implementing a wagering game on a mobile computing
device of the type having a screen and a camera, the method comprising:
        installing an application on the computing device for reading an optical
machine-readable code;
        installing a wagering-game application on the computing device;
        accounting for a money deposit;
        generating an optical machine-readable code that includes data related to the
amount of the deposit;
        providing such a mobile computing device and the generated code to a person;
        receiving an image of the generated code via the camera;
        applying a credit to the wagering game related to the generated code; and
        permitting play of the wagering game on the computing device responsive to
wagers made using the applied credit.
        2.       The method of claim 1 further comprising deducting wagers that resulted
in a loss from the applied credit to produce a credit balance.
        3.       The method of claim 2 further comprising applying prizes that resulted
from a win to the applied credit thereby augmenting the credit balance.
        4.       The method of claim 3 further comprising tracking the credit balance at a
location remote from the mobile computing device.
        5.       The method of claim 4 further comprising accounting for a withdrawal
of the credit balance.
                                             44

        6.      The method of claim 5 wherein accounting for a withdrawal of the credit
balance comprises receiving an image of the generated code.
        7.      A method of implementing a wagering game on a mobile computing
device having a touch-sensitive screen for receiving inputs to the game, the method
comprising:
        preparing a plurality of symbol combinations each of which reflects either a
winning or a losing game outcome;
        displaying an image from the game on the screen;
        indicating at least two areas of the game image;
        detecting a substantially continuous swipe of a finger on the screen from at least
a portion of one area to at least a portion of another area; and
        displaying at least one symbol in each of the areas.
        8.      The method of claim 7 wherein displaying at least one symbol in each of
the areas comprises concluding a first game and wherein the method further comprises
playing a second game comprising:
        indicating at least two areas of the game image;
        detecting a finger touch in one of the areas; and
        displaying at least one symbol in the touched area.
        9.      The method of claim 8 further comprising:
        detecting a finger touch in a second one of the areas; and
        displaying at one symbol in the second area.
        10.     A method of operating games implemented on a network of mobile
computing devices comprising:
        providing a computing device to each of a plurality of players;
                                              45

       tracking the activity level of each of the mobile computing devices so provided;
and
       sending a message to a device when the activity level falls below a predefined
level.
        11.    The method of claim 10 further comprising:
       tracking the further activity level of the device to which the message was sent;
and
       generating an indication that the further activity level fails to meet at least one
predefined criterion.
                                             46

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

