                                           ABSTRACT
          A client services reporting system including a configuration generator, executed by
at least one hardware processor, that configures a report that is generated by ascertaining
a line of business related to the report, ascertaining an application related to the line of
business, performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of
the report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of information related to a scope
of services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and
service management, and including, in the report, at least one field related to each of an
executive    summary,      application  maintenance     metrics  data,   change    management
information, resourcing information, and business line performance information, wherein at
least one field includes metrics data that is automatically sourced from an application
outsourcing analytics engine, a report confirmer, executed by the at least one hardware
processor, to confirm the configuration of the report and the report by generating the report,
ascertaining a confirmation status of the report, and submitting, based on the ascertained
confirmation status of the report, the report for approval by a specified entity, a report
approver, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to ascertain, based on the
submittal of the report for approval by the specified entity, whether the report is approved or
disapproved, the configuration generator further automatically re-configuring the report
based upon the disapproval of the report, a report publisher, executed by the at least one
hardware processor, to publish the generated report based on the approval of the generated
report by selection of a publish option that is available on a user-interface display specific to
the specified entity, and a report comparer, executed by the at least one hardware processor,
that compares a plurality of parameters of the report to parameters of a report for a different
line of business and/or different application selected by the specified entity via the user
interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared based on
predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique, and generates a display of
similarities and differences based on the comparison.

                    o0                CH
                                       0~0
                                       uJu
uo
0                                 r
z                                 L
()
Lu    0         H-                O
              U)                  0
HU    LU
z     0D
   Li   zCN
-1    00C
CO    F--    )                    LU
          <    U)>
          Of LU        z          0
      Z)               0
          0   o
             U)c
           z           '   -I      F
                0   LL            O
                C)       0    a_0
             LUiaa
             z                    LUJ
         ~LU      I
         U1)

                                             1
                            CLIENT SERVICES REPORTING
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 29 November 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]    A report may be described as any informational work made with the intention of
relaying information or recounting events in a presentable form.         For example, the
information work may include writings, speech, graphs, etc. A report may be used, for
example, by a service provider to provide information to another entity (e.g., a client) in a
format that is relevant to the entity.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0001b]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a client services reporting system
including a configuration generator, executed by at least one hardware processor, that
configures a report that is generated by ascertaining a line of business related to the report,
ascertaining an application related to the line of business, performing, based on the line of
business and the application, a master setup of the report, wherein the master setup includes
at least one of information related to a scope of services, a service model, a service level
agreement description, a contract overview, and service management, and including, in the
report, at least one field related to each of an executive summary, application maintenance
metrics data, change management information, resourcing information, and business line
performance information, wherein at least one field includes metrics data that is automatically
sourced from an application outsourcing analytics engine, a report confirmer, executed by
the at least one hardware processor, to confirm the configuration of the report and the report
by generating the report, ascertaining a confirmation status of the report, and submitting,
based on the ascertained confirmation status of the report, the report for approval by a
specified entity, a report approver, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to
ascertain, based on the submittal of the report for approval by the specified entity, whether
the report is approved or disapproved, the configuration generator further automatically re
configuring the report based upon the disapproval of the report, a report publisher, executed
by the at least one hardware processor, to publish the generated report based on the
approval of the generated report by selection of a publish option that is available on a user
interface display specific to the specified entity; and a report comparer, executed by the at
least one hardware processor, that compares a plurality of parameters of the report to
parameters of a report for a different line of business and/or different application selected by
the specified entity via the user-interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained
and compared based on predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique,
and generates a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.
[0001c]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method for client services reporting, the method including ascertaining a line of business
related to a report that is to be generated, ascertaining an application related to the line of

                                                  3
business, performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of
the report, wherein the master setup includes information related to a scope of services, a
service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and service
management, including, in the report, at least one field related to each of an executive
summary,      application maintenance metrics data, change management                  information,
resourcing information, and business line performance information, wherein at least one field
includes metrics data that is automatically sourced from an application outsourcing analytics
engine, generating the report based on the master setup of the report and the at least one
of at least one field related to the executive summary, the application maintenance metrics
data, the change management information, the resourcing information, and the business line
performance information, ascertaining a confirmation status of the generated report,
submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the generated report, the
generated report for approval by a specified entity, ascertaining, based on the submittal of
the generated report for approval by the specified entity, whether the generated report is
approved or disapproved, automatically re-configuring the report based upon the disapproval
of the generated report, publishing the generated report based on the approval of the
generated report, by selection of a publish option that is available on a user-interface display
specific to the specified entity comparing a plurality of parameters of the report to parameters
of a report for a different line of business and/or different application selected by the specified
entity via the user-interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared
based on predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique, and generating
a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.
[0001d]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium having stored thereon machine readable instructions for client services
reporting, the machine readable instructions when executed cause a computer system to
ascertain a line of business related to a report that is to be generated, ascertain an
application related to the line of business, perform, based on the line of business and the
application, a master setup of the report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of
information related to a scope of services, a service model, a service level agreement
description, a contract overview, and service management, include, in the report, at least
one field related to each of an executive summary, application maintenance metrics data,

                                                 4
change management information, resourcing information, and business line performance
information, wherein at least one field includes metrics data that is automatically sourced
from an application outsourcing analytics engine generate the report based on the master
setup of the report and the at least one of at least one field related to the executive summary,
the application maintenance metrics data, the change management information, the
resourcing information, and the business line performance information, ascertain a
confirmation status of the generated report, submit, based on the ascertained confirmation
status of the generated report, the generated report for approval by a specified entity,
ascertain, based on the submittal of the generated report for approval by the specified entity,
whether the generated report is approved or disapproved, automatically re-configure the
report based upon the disapproval of the generated report, publish the generated report
based on the approval of the generated report by selection of a publish option that is available
on a user-interface display specific to the specified entity, and compare a plurality of
parameters of the generated report to parameters of a report for a different line of business
and/or different application selected by the specified entity via the user interface display,
wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared based on predefined targets using a
numeric comparison based technique, and generate a display of similarities and differences
based on the comparison.

                                                  5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0002]      Features of the present disclosure are illustrated by way of examples shown in the
following figures. In the following figures, like numerals indicate like elements, in which:
[0003]      Figure 1 illustrates a client services reporting system, according to an example of
the present disclosure;
[0004]      Figure 2 illustrates a configuration flow for the client services reporting system of
Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0005]      Figure 3 illustrates a configuration user-interface display for the client services
reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0006]      Figure 4 illustrates a user-interface display for adding a line of business (LOB) with
respect to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an
example of the present disclosure;
[0007]      Figure 5 illustrates a user-interface display for adding an application with respect
to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0008]      Figure 6 illustrates a user-interface display for status with respect to configuration
for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of the present
disclosure;
[0009]      Figure 7 illustrates a user-interface display for a master setup with respect to
configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of
the present disclosure;
[0010]      Figure 8 illustrates a user-interface display for an executive summary with respect
to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;

                                                 6
[0011]     Figure 9 illustrates a user-interface display for application maintenance metrics
data with respect to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1,
according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0012]     Figure 10 illustrates a user-interface display for change management with respect
to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0013]     Figure 11 illustrates a user-interface display for resourcing with respect to
configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of
the present disclosure;
[0014]     Figure 12 illustrates a user-interface display for business line performance with
respect to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an
example of the present disclosure;
[0015]     Figure 13 illustrates a user-interface display for report confirmation with respect to
configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of
the present disclosure;
[0016]     Figure 14 illustrates a user-interface display for submittal for approval with respect
to configuration for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0017]     Figure 15 illustrates an approval flow for the client services reporting system of
Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0018]     Figure 16 illustrates a user-interface display for status with respect to approval for
the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of the present
disclosure;
[0019]     Figure 17 illustrates a user-interface display for approval for the client services
reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0020]     Figure 18 illustrates a publish report flow for the client services reporting system
of Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;

                                                  7
[0021]     Figure 19 illustrates a user-interface display for status on home page with respect
to publish report for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0022]     Figure 20 illustrates a user-interface display for report preparation with respect to
publish report for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0023]     Figure 21 illustrates a user-interface display for submittal for review with respect
to publish report for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0024]     Figure 22 illustrates a user-interface display for confirmation to publish with
respect to publish report for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an
example of the present disclosure;
[0025]     Figure 23 illustrates a user-interface display for report publishing with respect to
publish report for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example
of the present disclosure;
[0026]     Figure 24 illustrates a client flow for the client services reporting system of Figure
1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0027]     Figure 25 illustrates a user-interface display for a client view for the client services
reporting system of Figure 1, according to an example of the present disclosure;
[0028]     Figure 26 illustrates a user-interface display for comparing line of businesses and
applications for a client view for the client services reporting system of Figure 1, according
to an example of the present disclosure;
[0029]     Figure 27 illustrates a flowchart of a method for client services reporting, according
to an example of the present disclosure;
[0030]     Figure 28 illustrates another flowchart of a method for client services reporting,
according to an example of the present disclosure; and

                                              8
[0031]     Figure 29 illustrates a computer system, according to an example of the present
disclosure.

                                               9
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0032]     For simplicity and illustrative purposes, the present disclosure is described by
referring mainly to examples thereof. In the following description, numerous specific details
are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will
be readily apparent however, that the present disclosure may be practiced without limitation
to these specific details. In other instances, some methods and structures have not been
described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure.
[0033]     Throughout the present disclosure, the terms "a" and "an" are intended to denote
at least one of a particular element. As used herein, the term "includes" means includes but
not limited to, the term "including" means including but not limited to. The term "based on"
means based at least in part on.
[0034]     According to examples, a client services reporting system and a method for client
services reporting are disclosed herein. According to examples, the system and method
disclosed herein may provide a tolling solution which may be accessed, for example, from
any browser across the globe, and allows users to visualize status report and a health of
their project. The tolling solution may produce accurate and timely reports that are readily
understandable and are provided in a predetermined pictorial format.              According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide users with a front end to
design and customize a status report (i.e., content, and format of the status report). In this
regard, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for customized metrics that
are designed to track status and health of a project or work, configurability at project level to
select which reports/data to view, a limited number of inputs in the form of measures and
metrics that are provided with reports that are generated based on predefined formats and
structure, customized report formats and presentations designed to provide user-specific
reports, and reports that are designed to address status reporting related challenges.
Further, the system and method disclosed herein may provide status reports, based, for
example, on client priorities, and publish periodic status reports with approved workflow to
clients.

                                                10
[0035]      According to examples, with respect to report generation, the system and method
disclosed herein may provide for the setting of a correct project type to collect data for a
report to be generated based on metrics (which may be standardized) associated with the
project type, automation with respect to report creation, customization of a report, and
generation of a status report based on the project type and the customization. The system
and method disclosed herein may provide reports based, for example, on different work
types (e.g., system integration work vs. application outsourcing vs. testing work). In this
regard, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for generation of reports based
on specific type of data inputs, determination of report data based on the data inputs, and
generation of reports based on the report data. The status reports may provide indicators of
productivity for comparison purposes.
[0036]      The system and        method   disclosed herein     may provide insight beyond
demonstration of meeting service commitments, and drive additional value creation through
improved quality and speed of operational decision making to implement corrective actions.
In this regard, the system and method disclosed herein may facilitate visibility and control of
a particular line of business (LOB) through mobility and analytics.
[0037]      According to examples, the system disclosed herein may represent an integrated
high performance service management reporting system.             According to examples, the
system and method disclosed herein may include features that provide for the configuration,
review, approval, and/or publishing of reports, setting of client service level agreements
(SLAs) and contractual targets, and comparison of LOBs and applications, to provide a
snapshot of applications/LOBs to a user (e.g., a client). According to examples, the system
and method disclosed herein may be used for configuring reports with a specific frequency,
for review of reports, approval of reports, and for publishing of a confirmed report to a user
(e.g., a client) for every application under a particular LOB.
[0038]      According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for
role based access, for example, for a visitor (e.g., read only access), for a delivery lead (DL),
a project manager (PM), a project management office (PMO), user, client, etc. According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for the configuration of a
report based on the requirements specific to projects, which include confirmation (e.g.,

                                                11
preview of the configuration) and approval by a DL. According to examples, the system and
method disclosed herein may provide for the publishing of reports with different frequencies
(e.g., weekly, fortnightly, monthly, quarterly, etc.). According to examples, the system and
method disclosed herein may provide visibility to pending actions on a report, for example,
on a landing page. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may
provide feasibility to map a sourcing approach for performance indicators, along with manual
sourcing. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may include the
functionality to set user (e.g., client) SLAs and contractual targets for metrics. According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for the generation of a
graphical representation for every performance indicator, for example, in forms such as area,
bar, line, pie graph, etc. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein
may provide for the validation and confirmation of reports before publishing, for example, to
a user (e.g., client). According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may
provide for comparison of parameters with different LOB/applications parameters.
[0039]      According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide the
infrastructure to configure a report based on project and client requirements. According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for automated sourcing of
data from an application outsourcing (AO) analytics engine for application management
(AM). According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may include an in
built approval process and facility to publish reports with different frequencies (e.g., weekly,
fortnightly, monthly, quarterly, etc.).     According to examples, the system and method
disclosed herein may provide for the definition of project specific sections and metrics for
application development, application management, and testing. According to examples, the
system and method disclosed herein may include Internet features to provide for high user
interactions, and include export functionality.      According to examples, the system and
method disclosed herein may provide comprehensive reporting based on the scope of work
(e.g., application development, application management, and/or testing).           According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for the generation of report
outputs in the form of online reports in specified formats (e.g., PDF format). According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may be implemented on a mobile device,
such as a tablet, a phone, etc.

                                                12
[0040]      According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may include a
single reporting system for application development, application management, and/or testing
metrics for clients. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may
provide for the configuration of application development, application management, and/or
testing sections/metrics as per client key performance indicators (KPIs).       According to
examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for a user to report metrics
at release level and application level for application development and testing scope of work.
According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide manual and/or
file based (e.g., Excel based) upload data entry of metrics for application development,
application management, and/or testing. According to examples, the system and method
disclosed herein may provide for the validation and confirmation of reports before publishing
to a client. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide for
the comparison of parameters with different line of business and/or applications parameters.
[0041]      The client services reporting system and the method for client services reporting
disclosed herein provide a technical solution to technical problems related, for example, to
report configuration, confirmation, approval, publishing, and/or comparison. As disclosed
herein, the system and method disclosed herein provide the technical solution of a
configuration generator that is executed by at least one hardware processor to configure a
report that is to be generated by ascertaining a line of business related to the report,
ascertaining an application related to the line of business, and performing, based on the line
of business and the application, a master setup of the report. The master setup may include
information related to a scope of services, a service model, a service level agreement
description, a contract overview, and/or service management. The configuration generator
may further include, in the report, a field related to an executive summary, application
maintenance metrics data, change management information, resourcing information, and/or
business line performance information. A report confirmer that is executed by the at least
one hardware processor may confirm the configuration of the report and the report by
generating the report, ascertaining a confirmation status of the report, and submitting, based
on the ascertained confirmation status of the report, the report for approval by a specified
entity. A report approver that is executed by the at least one hardware processor may
ascertain, based on the submittal of the report for approval by the specified entity, whether

                                                 13
the report is approved or disapproved. A report publisher that is executed by the at least
one hardware processor may publish the report based on the approval of the report. A report
comparer that is executed by the at least one hardware processor may compare a plurality
of parameters of the report to parameters of a report for a different line of business and a
different application, and generate a display of similarities and differences based on the
comparison. According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide
standardization of the types of reports for a given type of project, a method of data collection,
and generation of standardized reports based on the project type specific intelligence logic
and custom metrics computation processes as disclosed herein.            These custom metrics
computation processes may facilitate governance of projects. According to examples, the
system and method disclosed herein may provide a centralized location for data collection
by using a standardized web-based user interface. According to examples, the system and
method disclosed herein may provide for customized representation of data for reports.
According to examples, the system and method disclosed herein may provide reduced
response time with respect to report generation, increased report usability, customization
and processing of reports, and configurability at project and project type levels.
[0042]     Figure 1 illustrates a client services reporting system 100 (e.g., system 100 as
disclosed herein), according to an example of the present disclosure. Referring to Figure 1,
the system 100 may include a configuration generator 102, executed by at least one
hardware processor (e.g., processor 2902), to configure a report 104 that is to be generated
by ascertaining a line of business 106 related to the report 104, and ascertaining an
application 108 related to the line of business 106. A line of business (LOB) may describe
the products or services offered by a corporation or manufacturer (e.g., retail, finance,
banking, etc.). A LOB application may be described as a container that holds all project
tracking metrics information for tracking and status reporting purposes. The configuration
generator 102 may perform, based on the line of business 106 and the application 108, a
master setup 110 of the report 104. The master setup 110 may include information related
to a scope of services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract
overview, and/or service management.           Further, the configuration generator 102 may
include, in the report 104, a field related to an executive summary, application maintenance
metrics data, change management information, resourcing information, and/or business line

                                               14
performance information. The executive summary may be described as a summary of a
status of a project, for example, for executives and/or project owners.          Application
maintenance metrics data may be described as metrics data of a project associated with
application maintenance type of work. Change management information may be described
as information related to change requests. Resourcing information may be described as
information related to resources that are working on a project. Business line performance
information may be described as information based on metrics that define how a business is
performing.
[0043]     According to examples, the configuration generator 102 may perform, based on
the line of business and the application, the master setup of the report 104 by performing,
based on the line of business and the application, the master setup of the report 104 to
include a publishing interval of the report.
[0044]     According to examples, the configuration generator 102 may specify the scope of
services, the service model, the service level agreement description, the contract overview,
and the service management as mandatory fields of the report 104 that are unchangeable
after completion of the configuration of the report 104.
[0045]     According to examples, the configuration generator 102 may configure the report
104 that is to be generated by including the application maintenance metrics data that
includes metrics derived from incident management, problem management, work request
management, and/or application management. Incident management may be implemented
to restore normal operations in an expedited manner with the least possible impact on either
an organization or a user, and in a cost-effective manner. Problem management may be
implemented to minimize both the number and severity of incidents and potential problems
to an organization. Work request management may be implemented to manage requests
from clients and internal users to log, track, and manage work. Application management
may be implemented to manage the operation, maintenance, versioning, and upgrading of
an application throughout its lifecycle.

                                                15
[0046]      According to examples, the configuration generator 102 may configure the report
104 that is to be generated by including the change management information that includes
lower and upper control limits related to a graph included in the report 104.
[0047]      According to examples, the configuration generator 102 may ascertain whether
the report is approved or disapproved, and re-configure the report based on the disapproval
of the report.   For example, the configuration generator 102 may re-configure the entire
report 104 based on the disapproval of the report 104.
[0048]      A report confirmer 112 that is executed by the at least one hardware processor
may confirm the configuration of the report 104 and the report 104 by generating the report
104, ascertaining a confirmation status of the report 104, and submitting, based on the
ascertained confirmation status of the report, the report 104 for approval by a specified entity
114 (e.g., a delivery lead, project manager, etc.).
[0049]      According to examples, the report confirmer 112 may confirm the configuration of
the report 104 and the report 104 by submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status
of the report 104, the report 104 for approval by the specified entity 114 that includes the
authority to approve or reject the report 104.
[0050]      A report approver 116 that is executed by the at least one hardware processor
may ascertain, based on the submittal of the report 104 for approval by the specified entity
114, whether the report is approved or disapproved.
[0051]      A report publisher 118 that is executed by the at least one hardware processor
may publish the report 104 based on the approval of the report 104.
[0052]      According to examples, the report publisher 118 may publish the report 104 based
on the approval of the report 104 by selection of a publish option that is available on a user
interface display specific to the specified entity 114.
[0053]       A report comparer 120 that is executed by the at least one hardware processor
may compare a plurality of parameters of the report 104 to parameters of a report for a
different line of business and a different application, and generate a display of similarities
and differences based on the comparison. Parameters may be ascertained and compared

                                                16
based on predefined targets, and by using, for example, a numeric comparison based
technique. Further, the report comparer 120 may generate a display of the report 104 and
a plurality of reports of similar line of businesses compared to the line of business, and/or
similar applications compared to the application.
[0054]      Figure 2 illustrates a configuration flow for the system 100, according to an
example of the present disclosure.
[0055]      Referring to Figure 2, at blocks 200 and 202, a delivery lead and/or a project
manager (or another user) may create a line of business at 204. At block 206, an application
that may be associated with the line of business may be created. An application may be
described as a logical container, and may include any name, such as, for example, "fund
Transfer system" etc. At block 208, the status may be indicated as not started, and at block
210, configuration details may be saved. At block 212, all information may be previewed
with respect to the saved configuration details from block 210. At block 214, the configuration
may be confirmed with respect to the saved configuration details from block 210. At block
216, the configuration details may be submitted (e.g., to a user, or an administrator
otherwise) for approval. At block 218, the status of the configuration may be indicated as
pending approval.
[0056]     At block 220, the configuration flow may proceed to the master setup, where
master details for report configuration (e.g., information sources, frequency, scope of work,
etc.,) may be ascertained. At block 222, the configuration flow may proceed to the executive
summary, where the executive summary for the report such as business highlights, issues,
key actions, projects and initiatives, overall service, etc., may be captured. At block 224, the
configuration flow may proceed to the application management metrics data which includes
incident, problem, and work request metric details. At block 226, the configuration flow may
proceed to change management which includes metric related to change requests. At block
228, the configuration flow may proceed to resourcing which includes metrics related
resources that are working on a project. At block 230, the configuration flow may proceed
to business line performance which includes metrics that define how a business is
performing. The status of each of the blocks 220-220 may be provided, for example, as "in
draft".

                                                17
[0057]       Figure 3 illustrates a configuration user-interface display for the system 100,
according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0058]       Referring to Figure 3, as shown in the configuration user-interface display, a
delivery lead and/or project manager may perform client and contract specific configuration.
On the landing page, the delivery lead and/or project manager may view the list of clients,
line of business, and applications for which they have access, view the next actions on the
report, and add the line of business and application. For example, at 300, an enterprise
identification and role assigned may displayed, for example, for a delivery lead. The role
and identification may include a one to one mapping. Examples of roles may include delivery
lead, project manager, project management office, client, visitor, etc. At 302, a user may
click on a pyramid option at each level to view client, a particular line of business, application
hierarchy, etc. At 304, a delivery lead and/or a project manager may add a line of business
and/or application under a specific client to set configurations. At 306, configuration status
and next set of actions on reports may be displayed on the homepage. Once the report
configuration is approved, a user may commence report preparation based on the frequency
selected in the master setup. Once the cycle is completed, the status of report preparation
may be moved to pending for the next cycle.
[0059]       Figure 4 illustrates a user-interface display for adding a line of business with
respect to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present
disclosure. An LOB may be used to describe products or services that are offered, e.g.,
retail, finance, etc.
[0060]       Referring to Figure 4, as shown in the user-interface display for adding a line of
business, a delivery lead and/or a project manager may add a line of business, for example,
for a client, by selecting an "add line of business" option.        A pop-up may appear with
mandatory fields to be completed.        For example, at 400, a delivery lead and/or a project
manager may select an "add line of business" option. At 402, the pop-up may include an
option to select a client to which a line of business is to be added. At 404, a line of business
name may be provided, where the line of business name may be a unique name that is
displayed in a report. At 406, a line of business description may be entered. At 408, a line
of business may be created upon selection of a "save" option.

                                                18
[0061]     Figure 5 illustrates a user-interface display for adding an application with respect
to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0062]     Referring to Figure 5, as shown in the user-interface display for adding an
application, a delivery lead and/or a project manager may add an application to the
existing/newly created line of business by selecting on "add application" option.          In this
regard, a pop-up may appear with mandatory fields that are to be completed. For example,
at 500, the delivery lead and/or project manager may select the option to add an application.
At 502, a client may be selected. At 504, an existing line of business or newly created line
of business may be selected under which a new application is to be added. At 506, a unique
application name may be added (with the name being displayed in a report). At 508, an
application description may be provided. At 510, an application may be created based on
selection of a "save" option.
[0063]     Figure 6 illustrates a user-interface display for status with respect to configuration
for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0064]     Referring to Figure 6, as shown in the user-interface display for status, once the
line of business and the application are created, the configuration status will be "not started".
A user (e.g., a delivery lead and/or a project manager) may select a hyperlink of the
configuration status, where processing may proceed to the configuration page where master
setup and various parameters may need to be completed.               For example, at 600, the
configuration status of "not started" may be updated against the application name.
[0065]     Figure 7 illustrates a user-interface display for a master setup with respect to
configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0066]     Referring to Figure 7, as shown in the user-interface display for the master setup,
the master setup may be described as a mandatory setup that is to be updated as per the
client and contract configurations. The parameters with respect to the master setup, if
applicable, may be completed and saved. Once the master setup is completed, the master
setup may be editable for any user, and if any changes are needed, a ticket may be
generated, for example, for an operations team.        For example, at 700, the client, line of
business, and application may be displayed. At 702, the client logo may be uploaded, for

                                                 19
example, to a SharePoint by selecting an "upload client logo" link. At 704, the mandatory
fields may be updated based on client and contract configuration. At 706, fortnightly may
provide the option to choose a day in each fortnight the report will be published, monthly may
provide the option to choose which day of the month the report will be published, and
quarterly may provide the options to choose between which days in a quarter the report will
be published.     At 708, the sourcing approach (e.g., AOAE or manual) may be set, with
manual sourcing being set by default, and when both AOAE and manual are selected,
metrics data may be retrieved from AOAE and/or manually. AOAE data may be pushed
through an automated process, and the AOAE data may be displayed on a user interface in
the same manner manually entered data in shown. At 710, the enterprise identification of
the reviewer who will review the report may be displayed as shown. Further, at 712, the
master setup may be saved by selection of the "save" option, and any changes post saving
may be performed through a backend.
[0067]      Figure 8 illustrates a user-interface display for an executive summary with respect
to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0068]      Referring to Figure 8, as shown in the user-interface display for the executive
summary, for the executive summary (under configure report), a plurality (e.g., five) fields
may be selected by default. A delivery lead and/or a project manager may uncheck any one
field from the list, and that field may not be included in the report. New fields may be added
to track the progress related, for example, to a line of business. Further, the display order of
fields may be changed based on the priority. For example, at 800, the fields may be included
or discarded by checking or un-checking the illustrated box. At 802, the order in which the
section needs to be displayed may be specified.           At 804, new fields may be added by
selecting an "add fields" option. At 806, the "save" option may be selected to save the
changes, and for display of various fields in the report. At 808, the "preview all" option may
be selected to view the preview of the report. The "preview all" option may fetch data from
the database, and generate reports preview dynamically.
[0069]      Figure 9 illustrates a user-interface display for application maintenance metrics
data with respect to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present
disclosure.

                                                 20
[0070]      Referring to Figure 9, with respect to application maintenance metrics data, under
the application maintenance tab, all of the project related metrics such as incident
management,       problem     management,     work   request    management,  and   application
management may be updated and saved. For example, at 900, application maintenance
metrics data may be updated as required (other options for selection may include incident
management, problem management, work request management, application management).
At 902, if a user chooses a manual mode of data entry in master set up (i.e., client not in
AOAE), all data may be manually sourced. Otherwise, the user may have the option to auto
source from the AOAE or enter the data manually. At 904, a user may select the metric to
be reported, the display name, lower control limit/upper control limit (LCL/UCL), and if the
metric must be displayed in a client service reporting (CSR) report. Graphing and an option
to display a metric commentary may also be selected. At 906, a user may add additional
metrics, and select the "save" option to save the changes.
[0071]      Figure 10 illustrates a user-interface display for change management with respect
to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0072]      Referring to Figure 10, with respect to change management, similar to
application maintenance metrics data, lower control limit/upper control limit, graphing type,
sourcing, source field, etc., may be updated and saved. For example, at 1000, for a
graphical representation, a user may select a number of periods from the drop down menu.
At 1002, a user may add additional metrics, and save the selections by using the "save"
option. Once saved, change management may be displayed in a final report, for example,
to a client. At 1004, in order to provide the overall commentary on the configurable section
while preparing a report, a user may select an "overall commentary" option. With respect
to determination of metrics, response SLA compliance may be determined, for example, as
follows: CONVERT(DECIMAL(18,2),SUM(CASE WHEN [SLA Response]='MET' THEN 1
ELSE 0 END))*100 / (CONVERT(DECIMAL(18,2),SUM(CASE WHEN [SLA Response] IN
('MET','MISSED') THEN 1 ELSE 0 END))). With respect to determination of metrics,
effort/ticket may be determined, for example, as follows:
CONVERT(DECIMAL(1 8,2),SUM([Effort])) /
(CONVERT(DECIMAL(18,2),60)*CONVERT(DECIMAL(18,2),COUNT(1)).

                                                 21
[0073]      Figure 11 illustrates a user-interface display for resourcing with respect to
configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0074]      Referring to Figure 11, with respect to resourcing, a user may select the metric to
be reported, the display name, lower control limit/upper control limit, and if a metric is to be
displayed in a CSR summary. Graphing and option to display a metric commentary may
also be selected. At 1100, a user may add additional metrics, and select the "save" option,
wherein once saved, resourcing will be displayed in final report, for example, to a client. As
disclosed herein with respect to response SLA compliance and effort/ticket determination,
metrics may be determined based on a combination of predefined fixed equations and input
values, and/or using input data.
[0075]      Figure 12 illustrates a user-interface display for business line performance with
respect to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present
disclosure.
[0076]      Referring to Figure 12, with respect to business line performance, all the required
data may be filled as shown in Figure 12, and a user may select the "save" option to save
changes. At 1200, a user may add additional metrics, and select the "save" option to save
changes. Once saved, business line performance may be displayed in a final report, for
example, for a client. As disclosed herein with respect to response SLA compliance and
effort/ticket determination, metrics may be determined based on a combination of predefined
fixed equations and input values, and/or using input data.
[0077]      Figure 13 illustrates a user-interface display for report confirmation with respect to
configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0078]      Referring to Figure 13, with respect to report confirmation, after updating the
required tabs, the configuration status of the report may be specified as "in draft". A delivery
lead and/or a project manager may confirm the report on the configuration page, and preview
the report before submitting the report for approval. For example, at 1300, a user may select
the "select" option to review the data in every parameter. At 1302, a user may select the
"delete" option to delete the complete configuration, and the status on home page may be
changed to "not started". At 1304, the sections which were not saved during configuration

                                                 22
may be shown as blank on the preview configuration page. At 1306, a user may select the
"edit" option for every parameter to access the respective configuration page to apply any
changes. At 1308, a graphical representation may be selected during the configuration of
the report. The "delete" operation may delete configuration data from the database and
prompt a user to re-configure data again.
[0079]      Figure 14 illustrates a user-interface display for submittal for approval with respect
to configuration for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0080]      Referring to Figure 14, with respect to submittal for approval, after updating
required tabs, a delivery lead and/or a project manager may confirm the report on a
configuration page, and preview the report before submitting the report for approval. At
1400, a user may select the "submit" option, and a pop-up window with a confirmation may
be displayed to change the status of the submission for approval.
[0081]      Figure 15 illustrates an approval flow for the system 100, according to an example
of the present disclosure.
[0082]      Referring to Figure 15, with respect to the approval flow for the system 100, at
1500, a delivery lead input may determine, at 1502, whether the configuration is correct. At
1504, in response to a determination at 1502 that the configuration is not correct, the
configuration may be rejected, and at 1506, the status may be specified as rejected. At
1508, in response to a determination at 1502 that the configuration is correct, the
configuration may be approved, and at 1510, the status may be specified as approved. At
1512, the status of the configuration determination may be specified as pending. After
approval, the status configuration may be considered as final, and based on this
configuration, reports may be generated.
[0083]      Figure 16 illustrates a user-interface display for status with respect to approval for
the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0084]      Referring to Figure 16, with respect to status, on the landing page, the
configuration status may be specified as "pending approval". In this regard, only certain
users may approve or reject a report. For example, approval or rejection authorization may

                                                 23
be limited to a delivery lead. Selection of a hyperlink may provide for navigation to a preview
page. At 1600, a configuration status on the home page may be displayed as "pending
approval".
[0085]     Figure 17 illustrates a user-interface display for approval for the system 100,
according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0086]     Referring to Figure 17, with respect to approval, the preview page may display all
of the report parameters.      If the configurations are as expected, the delivery lead may
approve the report (or otherwise reject the report).        Once approved, the report may be
forwarded for a next set of actions, i.e., confirm to publish, and publishing report. If rejected,
the report may need to be started from the beginning, i.e., master setup and configuration.
At 1700, a user may initiate the "select" option to view the report. At 1702, a delivery lead
may select any one of the options to approve or reject. If approved, the next set of action
may include preparing the report and publishing. If rejected, the configuration may need to
be performed from the beginning.
[0087]     Figure 18 illustrates a publish report flow for the system 100, according to an
example of the present disclosure.
[0088]     Referring to Figure 18, at 1800, a delivery lead and/or a project manager may
prepare a report at 1802 (with the status of the report being specified as "in draft" at 1804).
The report may be submitted for review at 1806 (with the status of the report being specified
as "in review" at 1808). The report may be published at 1810 (with input from the delivery
lead at 1812, and with the status of the report being specified as "publish to client" at 1814).
The report may be confirmed for publication at 1816 (with input from the delivery lead and/or
project management office at 1818, and with the status of the report being specified as
"confirm to publish" at 1820).     After report publication, the associated data may be locked
for that period, and user may be provided an option to view the report.
[0089]     Figure 19 illustrates a user-interface display for status on home page with respect
to publish report for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.

                                                  24
[0090]       Referring to Figure 19, with respect to status on home page, after the report is
approved, the configuration status may be updated as "approved", and the action column
under report status on home page may be updated as "pending".                 By selection of the
associated links, a delivery lead and/or project manager may navigate to the "prepare" report
page. At 1900, the configuration status may be updated as "approved" after the delivery
lead approves the configuration. In case the configuration is rejected, the status may be
specified as "not started". At 1902, an action under report status will be "pending" when the
report is yet to be prepared by the delivery lead and/or project manager.
[0091]       Figure 20 illustrates a user-interface display for report preparation with respect to
publish report for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0092]       Referring to Figure 20, with respect to report preparation, the delivery lead and/or
project manager may prepare the report, for example, by updating the overall commentary
and executive summary on the prepare report page, and save the changes. Metrics data
and comments may be editable, and also updated as needed. At 2000, the publish to client
option may be available only in reviewer screens. If the publish to client option is unchecked,
the configurable section will not be displayed in the final report. At 2002, a user may select
the "select" option to view all of the configuration parameters. At 2004, the summary text
boxes are editable, and may be updated and saved.
[0093]       Figure 21 illustrates a user-interface display for submittal for review with respect
to publish report for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0094]       Referring to Figure 21, with respect to submittal for review, once the report is
prepared by the delivery lead and/or project manager, the report should be submitted for
review. The report status on the home page may be specified as "in review". At 2100, once
all of the fields are updated, a user may select the "submit for review" option. At 2102, the
date and enterprise identification may be updated under the prepared column. At 2104, the
report status after submittal for review may be specified as "in review".
[0095]       Figure 22 illustrates a user-interface display for confirmation to publish with
respect to publish report for the system 100, according to an example of the present
disclosure.

                                                25
[0096]     Referring to Figure 22, with respect to confirmation to publish, once the delivery
lead reviews the report, the delivery lead and/or the project management office may provide
confirmation to publish the report to the client. The report status on the home page may be
specified as "confirm to publish". At 2200, once all of the changes are saved, the delivery
lead and/or the project management office (e.g., a project manager) may provide
confirmation to publish the report by selecting the "confirm to publish" option. At 2202, the
report status post submitted for review may be specified as "confirm to publish".
[0097]     Figure 23 illustrates a user-interface display for report publishing with respect to
publish report for the system 100, according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0098]     Referring to Figure 23, with respect to report publishing, once the delivery lead
and/or the project management office confirms to publish the report to the client, the delivery
lead having access to "publish report" may publish the report to the client. After publishing
the report, the status of the report may be updated to "published to client". The delivery lead
may also view the client home page and confirm if the report has been published. At 2300,
the delivery lead may publish the report to the client by selecting the "publish report" option.
At 2302, the report status after submittal for review will be "published to client".
[0099]     Figure 24 illustrates a client flow for the system 100, according to an example of
the present disclosure.
[0100]     Referring to Figure 24, at 2400, the client may view the published report at 2402.
At 2404, the status of the report may be specified as viewed. At 2406, a parameter such as
metrics may be compared with a different line of business and/or application using the
display option (e.g., TBD may be compared with CSR team).
[0101]     Figure 25 illustrates a user-interface display for a client view for the system 100,
according to an example of the present disclosure.
[0102]     Referring to Figure 25, with respect to the client view, a client may view the reports
published by the delivery lead for a line of business and/or application with required details,
such as, for example, published date, published by information, next publish date, and set of
actions (e.g., viewing, date viewed, etc.). At 2500, on the client home page, a client may

                                                 26
view all reports for the applications under a specific line of business along with the details of
published date, published by date, next publish date, and the set of actions available for the
client.
[0103]      Figure 26 illustrates a user-interface display for comparing line of businesses and
applications for a client view for the system 100, according to an example of the present
disclosure.
[0104]      Referring to Figure 26, with respect to comparing line of businesses and
applications, a client may compare current application parameters with parameters with
different line of business and/or application parameters, and may also restore the default
values published in a current report. At 2600, the report may be exported in a specified
format, for example, to PDF, by selecting the "export PDF" option. At 2602, a user may
select the "restore defaults" option to restore the values of the current published report. At
2604, a user may select the "display options" option to display further options with respect to
application management. At 2606, a user may select the line or business and/or application
to be compared with. At 2608, a user may select the "view" option to view a report.
[0105]      Figures 27 and 28 respectively illustrate flowcharts of methods 2700 and 2800 for
client services reporting, according to examples.        The methods 2700 and 2800 may be
implemented on the system 100 described above with reference to Figures 1-26 by way of
example and not limitation. The methods 2700 and 2800 may be practiced in other systems.
[0106]      Referring to Figures 1-27, and particularly Figure 27, at block 2702, the method
2700 may include ascertaining a line of business 106 related to a report 104 that is to be
generated.
[0107]      At block 2704, the method 2700 may include ascertaining an application 108
related to the line of business 106.
[0108]      At block 2706, the method 2700 may include performing, based on the line of
business 106 and the application108, a master setup 110 of the report 104. The master
setup 110 may include information related to a scope of services, a service model, a service
level agreement description, a contract overview, and service management.

                                              27
[0109]     At block 2708, the method 2700 may include including, in the report 104, a field
related to an     executive summary,      application maintenance      metrics data, change
management information, resourcing information, and/or business line performance
information.
[0110]     At block 2710, the method 2700 may include generating the report 104 based on
the master setup 110 of the report 104 and the field related to the executive summary, the
application maintenance metrics data, the change management information, the resourcing
information, and/or the business line performance information.
[0111]     At block 2712, the method 2700 may include ascertaining a confirmation status of
the generated report 104.
[0112]     At block 2714, the method 2700 may include submitting, based on the ascertained
confirmation status of the generated report 104, the generated report 104 for approval by a
specified entity.
[0113]     At block 2716, the method 2700 may include ascertaining, based on the submittal
of the generated report 104 for approval by the specified entity, whether the generated report
104 is approved or disapproved.
[0114]     At block 2718, the method 2700 may include publishing the generated report 104
based on the approval of the generated report 104.
[0115]     According to examples, for the method 2700, performing, based on the line of
business 106 and the application 108, the master setup 110 of the report 104 may further
include performing, based on the line of business 106 and the application 108, the master
setup 110 of the report 104 to include a publishing interval of the report 104.
[0116]     According to examples, for the method 2700, the master setup 110 may include
information related to the scope of services, the service model, the service level agreement
description, the contract overview, and service management as mandatory fields of the
report 104 that are unchangeable after completion of the configuration of the report 104.

                                             28
[0117]     According to examples, for the method 2700, the application maintenance metrics
data may include metrics derived from incident management, problem management, work
request management, and/or application management.
[0118]     According to examples, for the method 2700, the change management information
may include lower and upper control limits related to a graph included in the report 104.
[0119]     Referring to Figures 1-26 and 28, and particularly Figure 28, at block 2802, the
method 2800 may include ascertaining a line of business 106 related to a report 104 that is
to be generated.
[0120]     At block 2804, the method 2800 may include ascertaining an application 108
related to the line of business 106.
[0121]     At block 2806, the method 2800 may include performing, based on the line of
business 106 and the application 108, a master setup 110 of the report 104. The master
setup 110 may include information related to a scope of services, a service model, a service
level agreement description, a contract overview, and/or service management.
[0122]     At block 2808, the method 2800 may include including, in the report 104, a field
related to an      executive summary,    application maintenance     metrics data, change
management information, resourcing information, and/or business line performance
information.
[0123]     At block 2810, the method 2800 may include generating the report 104 based on
the master setup of the report 104 and the field related to the executive summary, the
application maintenance metrics data, the change management information, the resourcing
information, and/or the business line performance information.
[0124]     At block 2812, the method 2800 may include ascertaining a confirmation status of
the generated report 104.
[0125]     At block 2814, the method 2800 may include submitting, based on the ascertained
confirmation status of the generated report 104, the generated report 104 for approval by a
specified entity.

                                               29
[0126]      At block 2816, the method 2800 may include ascertaining, based on the submittal
of the generated report 104 for approval by the specified entity, whether the generated report
104 is approved or disapproved.
[0127]      At block 2818, the method 2800 may include comparing a plurality of parameters
of the generated report 104 to parameters of a report for a different line of business 106 and
a different application.
[0128]      At block 2820, the method 2800 may include generating a display of similarities
and differences based on the comparison.
[0129]      According to examples, the method 2800 may further include ascertaining whether
the generated report 104 is approved or disapproved, and re-configuring the generated
report 104 based on the disapproval of the generated report 104.
[0130]      According to examples, the method 2800 may further include publishing the
generated report 104 based on the approval of the generated report 104 by selection of a
publish option that is available on a user-interface display specific to the specified entity.
[0131]      According to examples, the method 2800 may further include generating a further
display of the generated report 104 and a plurality of reports 104 of similar line of businesses
106 compared to the line of business 106, and/or similar applications compared to the
application 108.
[0132]      Figure 29 shows a computer system 2900 that may be used with the examples
described herein. The computer system may represent a generic platform that includes
components that may be in a server or another computer system. The computer system
2900 may be used as a platform for the system 100. The computer system 2900 may
execute, by a processor (e.g., a single or multiple processors) or other hardware processing
circuit, the methods, functions and other processes described herein.           These methods,
functions and other processes may be embodied as machine readable instructions stored
on a computer readable medium, which may be non-transitory, such as hardware storage
devices (e.g., RAM (random access memory), ROM (read only memory), EPROM (erasable,

                                               30
programmable ROM), EEPROM (electrically erasable, programmable ROM), hard drives,
and flash memory).
[0133]      The computer system 2900 may include a processor 2902 that may implement or
execute machine readable instructions performing some or all of the methods, functions and
other processes described herein. Commands and data from the processor 2902 may be
communicated over a communication bus 2904. The computer system may also include a
main memory 2906, such as a random access memory (RAM), where the machine readable
instructions and data for the processor 2902 may reside during runtime, and a secondary
data storage 2908, which may be non-volatile and stores machine readable instructions and
data. The memory and data storage are examples of computer readable mediums. The
memory 2906 may include a client services reporter 2920 including machine readable
instructions residing in the memory 2906 during runtime and executed by the processor
2902. The client services reporter 2920 may include the elements of the client services
reporting system 100 shown with reference to Figures 1-26.
[0134]      The computer system 2900 may include an 1/O device 2910, such as a keyboard,
a mouse, a display, etc. The computer system may include a network interface 2912 for
connecting to a network. Other known electronic components may be added or substituted
in the computer system.
[0135]      What has been described and illustrated herein is an example along with some of
its variations. The terms, descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of
illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Many variations are possible within the
spirit and scope of the subject matter, which is intended to be defined by the following claims
-- and their equivalents -- in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense
unless otherwise indicated.
[0136]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.

                                              31
[0137]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                32
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A client services reporting system including:
        a configuration generator, executed by at least one hardware processor, that
configures a report that is generated by
                ascertaining a line of business related to the report,
                ascertaining an application related to the line of business,
                performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup
of the report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of information related to a scope
of services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and
service management, and
                including, in the report, at least one field related to each of an executive
summary,      application maintenance metrics data, change management information,
resourcing information, and business line performance information, wherein at least one field
includes metrics data that is automatically sourced from an application outsourcing analytics
engine;
        a report confirmer, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to confirm the
configuration of the report and the report by
                generating the report,
                ascertaining a confirmation status of the report, and
                submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the report, the
report for approval by a specified entity;
        a report approver, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to ascertain,
based on the submittal of the report for approval by the specified entity, whether the report
is approved or disapproved,
        the configuration generator further automatically re-configuring the report based upon
the disapproval of the report;
        a report publisher, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to publish the
generated report based on the approval of the generated report by selection of a publish
option that is available on a user-interface display specific to the specified entity; and
        a report comparer, executed by the at least one hardware processor, that:

                                                 33
                compares a plurality of parameters of the report to parameters of a report for
a different line of business and/or different application selected by the specified entity via the
user-interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared based on
predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique, and
                generates a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.
2.      A client services reporting system according to claim 1, wherein the configuration
generator performs, based on the line of business and the application, the master setup of
the report by
        performing, based on the line of business and the application, the master setup of the
report to include a publishing interval of the report.
3.      A client services reporting system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
configuration generator specifies the scope of services, the service model, the service level
agreement description, the contract overview, and the service management as mandatory
fields of the report that are unchangeable after completion of the configuration of the report.
4.      A client services reporting system according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the configuration generator configures the report that is to be generated by including
the application maintenance metrics data that includes metrics derived from at least one of
incident management, problem management, work request management, and application
management.
5.      A client services reporting system according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the configuration generator configures the report that is to be generated by including
the change management information that includes lower and upper control limits related to
a graph included in the report.
6.      A client services reporting system according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the report confirmer confirms the configuration of the report and the report by

                                                34
submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the report, the report for approval
by the specified entity that includes the authority to approve or reject the report.
7.      A client services reporting system according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the configuration generator re-configures the entire report based on the disapproval
of the report.
8.      A client services reporting system according to any one of the preceding claims,
further including:
        a report comparer, executed by the at least one hardware processor, that:
               generates a display of the report and a plurality of reports of at least one of
                       similar line of businesses compared to the line of business, and
                       similar applications compared to the application.
9.      A computer-implemented method for client services reporting, the method including:
        ascertaining a line of business related to a report that is to be generated;
        ascertaining an application related to the line of business;
        performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of the
report, wherein the master setup includes information related to a scope of services, a
service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and service
management;
        including, in the report, at least one field related to each of an executive summary,
application maintenance metrics data, change management                  information, resourcing
information, and business line performance information, wherein at least one filed includes
metrics data that is automatically sourced from an application outsourcing analytics engine;
        generating the report based on the master setup of the report and the at least one of
at least one field related to the executive summary, the application maintenance metrics
data, the change management information, the resourcing information, and the business line
performance information;
        ascertaining a confirmation status of the generated report;

                                                 35
        submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the generated report, the
generated report for approval by a specified entity;
        ascertaining, based on the submittal of the generated report for approval by the
specified entity, whether the generated report is approved or disapproved;
        automatically re-configuring the report based upon the disapproval of the generated
report;
        publishing the generated report based on the approval of the generated report;
        by selection of a publish option that is available on a user-interface display specific to
the specified entity comparing a plurality of parameters of the report to parameters of a report
for a different line of business and/or different application selected by the specified entity via
the user-interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared based on
predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique; and
        generating a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.
10.     A method for client services reporting according to claim9, wherein performing, based
on the line of business and the application, the master setup of the report further includes:
         performing, based on the line of business and the application, the master setup of
the report to include a publishing interval of the report.
11.     A method for client services reporting according to either claim 9 or claim 10, wherein
the master setup includes information related to the scope of services, the service model,
the service level agreement description, the contract overview, and service management as
mandatory fields of the report that are unchangeable after completion of the configuration of
the report.
12.     A method for client services reporting according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein
the application maintenance metrics data includes metrics derived from at least one of
incident management, problem management, work request management, and application
management.

                                                36
13.     A method for client services reporting according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein
the change management information includes lower and upper control limits related to a
graph included in the report.
14.     A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon machine readable
instructions for client services reporting, the machine readable instructions when executed
cause a computer system to:
        ascertain a line of business related to a report that is to be generated;
        ascertain an application related to the line of business;
        perform, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of the
report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of information related to a scope of
services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and
service management;
        include, in the report, at least one field related to each of an executive summary,
application maintenance metrics data, change management                 information, resourcing
information, and business line performance information, wherein at least one field includes
metrics data that is automatically sourced from an application outsourcing analytics engine;
        generate the report based on the master setup of the report and the at least one of at
least one field related to the executive summary, the application maintenance metrics data,
the change management information, the resourcing information, and the business line
performance information;
        ascertain a confirmation status of the generated report;
        submit, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the generated report, the
generated report for approval by a specified entity;
        ascertain, based on the submittal of the generated report for approval by the specified
entity, whether the generated report is approved or disapproved;
        automatically re-configure the report based upon the disapproval of the generated
report;
        publish the generated report based on the approval of the generated report by
selection of a publish option that is available on a user-interface display specific to the
specified entity; and

                                                  37
        compare a plurality of parameters of the generated report to parameters of a report
for a different line of business and/or different application selected by the specified entity via
the user interface display, wherein the parameters are ascertained and compared based on
predefined targets using a numeric comparison based technique; and
        generate a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.
15.     A non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, further including
machine readable instructions that when executed further cause the computer system to:
        generate a further display of the generated report and a plurality of reports of at least
one of
                similar line of businesses compared to the line of business, and
                similar applications compared to the application.
1a.     A client services reporting system including:
        a configuration generator, executed by at least one hardware processor, that
configures a report that is generated by
                ascertaining a line of business related to the report,
                ascertaining an application related to the line of business,
                performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup
of the report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of information related to a scope
of services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and
service management, and
                including, in the report, at least one of at least one field related to an executive
summary,      application maintenance metrics data, change management                    information,
resourcing information, and business line performance information;
        a report confirmer, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to confirm the
configuration of the report and the report by
                generating the report,
                ascertaining a confirmation status of the report, and
                submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the report, the
report for approval by a specified entity;

                                                38
       a report approver, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to ascertain,
based on the submittal of the report for approval by the specified entity, whether the report
is approved or disapproved; and
       a report publisher, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to publish the
report based on the approval of the report.
2a.    A method for client services reporting, the method including:
       ascertaining a line of business related to a report that is to be generated;
       ascertaining an application related to the line of business;
        performing, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of the
report, wherein the master setup includes information related to a scope of services, a
service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and service
management;
        including, in the report, at least one of at least one field related to an executive
summary,     application maintenance metrics data, change management information,
resourcing information, and business line performance information;
       generating the report based on the master setup of the report and the at least one of
at least one field related to the executive summary, the application maintenance metrics
data, the change management information, the resourcing information, and the business line
performance information;
       ascertaining a confirmation status of the generated report;
       submitting, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the generated report, the
generated report for approval by a specified entity;
       ascertaining, based on the submittal of the generated report for approval by the
specified entity, whether the generated report is approved or disapproved; and
        publishing the generated report based on the approval of the generated report.
3a.    A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon machine readable
instructions for client services reporting, the machine readable instructions when executed
cause a computer system to:
       ascertain a line of business related to a report that is to be generated;

                                                   39
        ascertain an application related to the line of business;
        perform, based on the line of business and the application, a master setup of the
report, wherein the master setup includes at least one of information related to a scope of
services, a service model, a service level agreement description, a contract overview, and
service management;
        include, in the report, at least one of at least one field related to an executive summary,
application maintenance metrics data, change management                      information, resourcing
information, and business line performance information;
        generate the report based on the master setup of the report and the at least one of at
least one field related to the executive summary, the application maintenance metrics data,
the change management information, the resourcing information, and the business line
performance information;
        ascertain a confirmation status of the generated report;
        submit, based on the ascertained confirmation status of the generated report, the
generated report for approval by a specified entity;
        ascertain, based on the submittal of the generated report for approval by the specified
entity, whether the generated report is approved or disapproved;
        compare a plurality of parameters of the generated report to parameters of a report
for a different line of business and a different application; and
        generate a display of similarities and differences based on the comparison.

                                                                                     <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
                                           <U+271D>
                                           <U+2702>
                                           <U+261E>                                                    <U+271D>
                                           <U+2701><U+271D>                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                           <U+2712>
                                           <U+2704>                                                    <U+2714>
                                           <U+2720>                  <U+2715>                                 <U+271F>
                                           <U+2748>                  <U+2736><U+2736>                                <U+261E>
                                           <U+260E>                                                    <U+2720>    <U+270C><U+2715>   <U+260E>
                                           <U+271D>                                                    <U+2748>    <U+2736>    <U+271D>   <U+2716>
                                           <U+2720>                                                    <U+260E>         <U+2720>   <U+270C><U+2736>
                                           <U+271F>                                                    <U+271D>         <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2702>                                                    <U+2720>         <U+271D>
                                           <U+271D>                                                    <U+271F>
              <U+261E>                                                                                 <U+2702>
              <U+2702>                                                                                 <U+271D>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2706>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2721>                                                                                 <U+271D>
              <U+2704><U+2701>                                                                                <U+2702>
              <U+260E>                                      <U+271F>                                      |
              <U+271D>                                      <U+2713>                                          <U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2720>                                      <U+260E>                                          <U+25B2>
              <U+271F>    <U+270C>                                 <U+2702>                                          <U+2713>    <U+2718><U+2736>
              <U+2702>    <U+270C>                                 <U+2706>                 <U+270C>                        <U+271F>
              <U+271D>    <U+2736>                                 <U+271D>                 <U+2736><U+2736>                            <U+2736>
              <U+2706>        <U+271D>                             <U+2702>                                          <U+260E>
              <U+2702>                                      <U+260E>                                          <U+271D>
              <U+2748><U+2701>       <U+2720>                             <U+2706>                                          <U+2720>
                       <U+260E>                             <U+2714>                                          <U+271F>
              <U+271E>        <U+2714>                                                                        <U+2702>
              <U+271D>        <U+271D>                             <U+261E>                                          <U+271D>
              <U+2702>        <U+2702>
              <U+2706>        <U+2704>
              <U+260E>        <U+2702>
              <U+2704>        <U+2721>
              <U+2701><U+2702>       <U+2704>    <U+2715>
                            <U+270C><U+2736>
                       <U+2701><U+2720>                                                                       <U+271D>
              <U+2748>        <U+260E>                        <U+2706>                                               <U+2702>
                       <U+2714>                        <U+2706>                                               <U+271E>
                       <U+271D>                        <U+2702>                           <U+2704>                   <U+2720>
                       <U+2713>                        <U+2704><U+2701>                          <U+2720><U+2701>                  <U+271D>
                       <U+2721><U+2701>                       <U+2706>                           <U+260E>                   <U+271F>    <U+2717>
                                                <U+2713>                  <U+2717>        <U+2714>    <U+2718>              <U+271F>    <U+2736><U+2736>
                       <U+2712>                        <U+25B2>                  <U+270C>        <U+2748><U+2701>   <U+270C>              <U+2714>
                       <U+2704>                        <U+2712>                  <U+2736>             <U+2736>              <U+260E>
                       <U+2720>                                                    <U+271F>                   <U+271D>
                       <U+2748>                        <U+2720>                                               <U+2720>
                                                <U+2702>                           <U+271F>                   <U+271F>
                                                <U+2704><U+2701>                          <U+2714>                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                 <U+2759>
                                 <U+2702><U+2701>   <U+261B>
                                 <U+2712><U+2701>   <U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2716>
                                 <U+2748>    <U+260E>                  <U+2736><U+2736>
                                 <U+2702>    <U+2704>
                                 <U+271F>    <U+2702>
                                 <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+2704>
                                  P
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2714>                                                                   <U+2706>                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                  <U+2759>
                                      <U+2706>                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                      <U+2715>                                                                                                           <U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                  <U+2714>
              <U+2702>
                      <U+2715>                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
              <U+2704>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                       <U+2748>   <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>                                                <U+271F>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>                                                <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>                                                <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>                                                <U+2759>                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                              <U+25B2>                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                <U+2701>                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                       <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                       <U+2706>                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>                                                <U+25BC>
                              <U+2702>
                              <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                              <U+2706>                                                               <U+2759>
                                                              <U+2748>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                          P
                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                <U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                          <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>                                                <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25B2>                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>                                                <U+2715>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2706>                           P
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2759>                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                          P
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+2749>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                              <U+2714>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                              <U+25B2>                       <U+2716>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                              <U+2749>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
              <U+2704>
                      <U+270C>                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
              <U+2749>
                      <U+270C>                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                  <U+25B2>                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2715>                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                  P
                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
              <U+2759>                                                                                                               <U+261E>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     <U+2701><U+2701>
<U+2702><U+2701>
               <U+2704><U+2701>
                                     <U+2738><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
     <U+260E><U+2701>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2701>
<U+2702><U+2701>
                                     <U+2739><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                <U+2701>
     <U+273D><U+2701>           <U+2701><U+2704>

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+2701><U+2701>
     <U+2737><U+2701>
                     <U+273B><U+2701>
<U+2739><U+2701>
                                          <U+273A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                       <U+273D><U+2701>
          <U+2701><U+2702>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+273B><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2701><U+2701>

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+2701><U+2701>
          <U+2704><U+2701>
                                  <U+2702><U+2701>
                                                <U+273C><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                <U+260E><U+2701>
     <U+2706><U+2701>
<U+2701><U+271D>                         <U+2702><U+271D>

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>
<U+2701><U+2701>                                        <U+273D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                              <U+2701>
     <U+2702><U+2701>
          <U+260E><U+2701>

                    <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
            <U+273E>   <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2711><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
    <U+273E>   <U+2701>
<U+273E>
                                <U+2704>
                            <U+273E>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701>
<U+2701><U+2701>                                   <U+270D><U+2736><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                       <U+2704><U+2701>
                       <U+2701>
    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2736>   <U+2736>   <U+2735>   <U+2735>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>

                                    <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                                 <U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>
                        <U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                             <U+2736>   <U+2701>
        <U+260E>
<U+2736>   <U+2701>
                                                                         <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
            <U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2706>

<removed-apn>               <removed-date>
             <U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                                       <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>

                                                                                                        <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
                                                                                           <U+2706>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+2749>
                          <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2702>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>                                                                P
                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                  <U+2717><U+270C>                                                               <U+270C><U+2736>
                          <U+2749>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2746>
                          <U+271D>                                                                <U+2714>
                          <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                  <U+2736>                                                                <U+2736>
                              <U+2736>                                                                <U+2736>
                      <U+2759>
                                                                                       <U+261B>
                      <U+2721>
                                                                                       <U+2721>
                      <U+2759>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                          <U+2706>
                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                           <U+2706>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+2716><U+270C>                                                               <U+2718><U+270C>
                                                                                           <U+2706>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+2749>
                          <U+2749>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2702>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                       P
                                  <U+2736>                                                                <U+2736>
                                                                                           <U+2704>
                          <U+2749>
                              <U+2736>                                                                <U+2736>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2746>
                          <U+271D>                                                                <U+2714>
                          <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                <U+2720>
              P
                                                                                                            <U+2749>
                                                                                                                <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                   <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                   P
                                                                                                                            <U+2715><U+2736>
                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                <U+25BC>
                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                   <U+270C>                                <U+271F>
                                                               <U+271F>
                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                    <U+2749>
                                           <U+2749>
                                                               <U+271E>
                                                       <U+2704>
                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                   <U+2736>                                        <U+2736>
                                                                   <U+2749>
                                                   <U+2759>
                                       <U+271F>
                                           <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                        <U+2736>
                                                                                                                <U+2759>
                                                                               <U+2736>
                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                       <U+2701>
                                       <U+2721>
                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                               P
                                                   <U+25BC>
                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                <U+2759>
                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                   P
                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                    <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                                               <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                                               <U+2704>
                                                           <U+2706>
                                               <U+2749>
                                                           <U+25B2>
                                                                           <U+2736>
                                               <U+2702>
                                               <U+2701>
                                                           <U+2749>           <U+2736>
                                               <U+2759>
                                               <U+2749>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>

            <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
<U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                                 <U+2702>
                         <U+2736>   <U+2701>
                                               <U+270D><U+273C><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>

                                                             <U+270D><U+273D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                           P
                                                                             <U+261B>
                      <U+2718><U+2736>                                <U+2717><U+2736>
                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                             <U+2721>
                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                            <U+2718><U+2736>
                                                                                                     <U+270C>                           <U+2701>
                                           <U+2721>
                      <U+2718>                                 <U+2718>
                                               <U+2701>
                           <U+270C>                                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                             <U+2759>
                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                               <U+2704>
                                                                             <U+271F>
                      <U+2736>                                 <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                                                                                         <U+2748>
                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                 <U+2706>
                               <U+2748>
                                                                                 <U+25B2>
                                               <U+271F>
              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                             <U+2759>
                                                                                                     <U+25BC>
                                                                             <U+271F>
                  <U+2759>                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                           <U+2759>
                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                     P
                               <U+2748>
                           P
<removed-apn>            <U+2715>
                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                     <U+261B>
                      <U+2736>
                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2736><U+2718>
                                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                               <U+270E>
                                                        <U+2736>
                                               <U+2704>
                  <U+2759>   <U+2718><U+2736>
                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                                                                                     <U+25BC>
                           <U+2721>
                                                        <U+2718><U+2736>
                               <U+2701>
                                           P
                                                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                     <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                         <U+2749>
                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                         <U+2748>
                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                               <U+2746>
                               <U+270D>
                               <U+271F>               <U+271D>                         <U+2706>
                                                                         <U+25B2>
                                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                     <U+271F>
                           <U+2759>
                                                                                             <U+2759>
                               <U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+25BC>
                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2717>                                                                            <U+2718>
                           P
                               <U+2748>
                                                        <U+270C>                                                                            <U+270C>
                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                                     <U+261B>
                           <U+271F>
                                                        <U+2718><U+2736>                                                                           <U+2718><U+2736>
                                               <U+2749>
                               <U+2701>                                                                                 <U+2749>
                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                           <U+270C>
                                               <U+271D>                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2759>
                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                 <U+2749>
                               <U+270D>
                               <U+2706>                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                         <U+25B2>
                           <U+2759>
                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                        <U+2715>                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                     <U+261B>
                                           <U+271F>
                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                 <U+2748>
                                                        <U+270C>                                                                            <U+270C>
                               <U+2704>               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                 <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                 <U+2759>
                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                        <U+2718><U+2736>                                                                           <U+2718><U+2736>
                                           P
                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+2759>
                               <U+2746>               <U+2746>
                                                                                     <U+271F>
                               <U+271F>               <U+271D>                                                                 <U+2701>
                                               <U+2749>
                                                                                         <U+2706>
                               <U+2749>
                                                                                         <U+25B2>
                               <U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                             <U+25BC>
                                       <U+261E>           <U+270C>
                                       <U+271F>           <U+270C>
                                   <U+2749>
                                                   <U+2718><U+2736>
                                       <U+2759>

            <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                             <U+270D><U+2711><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>          <U+2736>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        <U+2737>   <U+2737>
<U+2737>   <U+2701>
                                           <U+2736>
                                           <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                         <U+2737>

                  <U+270F><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2702>
                          <U+2701>
                          <U+2737>
                                          <U+2749>
                                      <U+270C>
                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2749>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+274A>
                                      <U+2749>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+274A>
                                      <U+2749>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+2749>
                                  <U+2737>
                                      <U+271F>
                                          <U+2759>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+25B2>
              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2737>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2737>

                <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                      <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2702>
                                                    <U+270F><U+270F><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2701>
                                             <U+2737>

                <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                  <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+2704>
                                                <U+2738>
                                                <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+2701>
                                         <U+2737>

                                                               <U+2739>
                                                              <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2759>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2706>
                      <U+2721>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                          <U+2716>
                      <U+2759>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2716>
                                              <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                              <U+2749>
                          <U+25B2>
                                              <U+2701>
                      <U+271F>
                          <U+2706>                   <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                      P                                               <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                              P
                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                  <U+2749>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+2759>
                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+2749>
              <U+271F>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                          <U+2706>                                       <U+2748>   <U+25BC>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                              P
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2749>
                                          <U+2749>                                           P
                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                          <U+270E>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+2721>                                           <U+270E>       <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                  <U+2701>   <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                      <U+2759>
                                                                      P
                                          <U+271F>                               <U+2748>
                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+270C>
                              <U+271F>
                                                  <U+270C>
                              <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+2716>
                                  <U+2749>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2748>               <U+2715>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+273A>
                                       <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<U+2737>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>

                    <removed-apn>                            <removed-date>
                                  <U+2737>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                                              <U+2737>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>
<U+2737>   <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+273B>
                                                                        <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
        <U+2737>   <U+2701>   <U+2704>
                      <U+2737>   <U+2701>   <U+2737>

                                               <U+273C>
                                              <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                               <U+270F><U+273C><U+2736><U+2736>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2746> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2746><U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2747><U+2702>
                                            <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759>
                                               <U+2737><U+273C><U+261B><U+2737>
                     <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746><U+25C6> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                               <U+2737><U+273C><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746> P<U+2746> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
                                        <U+2702><U+260E><U+276F><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                               <U+2737><U+273C><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2701><U+271D><U+276F><U+2759><U+2702><U+270C> <U+2706><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2746><U+25C6>
                 <U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701><U+276F><U+260E><U+2706><U+270F><U+2702> <U+276F>PP<U+2746><U+2704><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> P<U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2759><U+2746><U+260E><U+2746><U+270C> <U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+25C6><U+25CF><U+2702>
                P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25CF><U+2702>P<U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271E><U+276F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                     <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                <U+2737><U+273C><U+261B><U+2713>
              <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> P<U+2746> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+260E><U+276F><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702>
               <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701><U+276F><U+260E><U+2706><U+270F><U+2702> <U+276F>PP<U+2746><U+2704><U+2711><U+270C>
                <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> P<U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2759><U+2746><U+260E><U+2746><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+25C6><U+25CF><U+2702> P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25CF><U+2702>P<U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E>
                  <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271E><U+276F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                     <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                <U+2737><U+273C><U+2712><U+261B>
                    <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746> <U+2701><U+271E><U+25C6><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2746><U+260E><U+276F> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                             <U+2737><U+273C><U+2712><U+2737>
              <U+276F><U+2747>P<U+2706><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2701><U+271E><U+25C6><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2746><U+260E><U+276F> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759>
                <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2746><U+271D> <U+2747><U+2711> <U+2746> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2711>
                                               <U+2737><U+273C><U+2712><U+261E>
                 <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+276F><U+2747>P<U+2706><U+260E><U+260E><U+2746><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>
                <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2746><U+271D> <U+2747><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2702><U+260E><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>
                                   <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+2704> <U+2759><U+2706> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2702><U+2759>
                                              <U+2737><U+273C><U+2712><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+276F><U+2747><U+271D><U+2706> <U+2721> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2746><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759>
                                            <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                              <U+2737><U+273C><U+2712><U+2713>

                                                  <U+273D>
                                                 <U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                  <U+273D><U+2736><U+2736>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+270F>
               <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2746> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2746><U+260E> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2747><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759>
                                                 <U+2737><U+2713><U+261B><U+2737>
                       <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746><U+25C6> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                                 <U+2737><U+2713><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746> P<U+2746> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
                                          <U+2702><U+260E><U+276F><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                 <U+2737><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D>
                <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2701><U+271D><U+276F><U+2759><U+2702><U+270C> <U+2706><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2746><U+25C6>
                   <U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701><U+276F><U+260E><U+2706><U+270F><U+2702> <U+276F>PP<U+2746><U+2704><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> P<U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2759><U+2746><U+260E><U+2746><U+270C> <U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+25C6><U+25CF><U+2702>
                  P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25CF><U+2702>P<U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271E><U+276F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                       <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2713><U+261B><U+2713>
                <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> P<U+2746> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702><U+260E><U+276F><U+2720> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702>
                 <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2746><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2746> <U+260E> <U+271E><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+2701><U+276F><U+260E><U+2706><U+270F><U+2702> <U+276F>PP<U+2746><U+2704><U+2711><U+270C>
                  <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> P<U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2759><U+2746><U+260E><U+2746><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+25C6><U+25CF><U+2702> P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2746><U+25CF><U+2702>P<U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E>
                    <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271E><U+276F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702>
                                       <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2713><U+2712><U+261B>
                      <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6> <U+2746> <U+2701><U+271E><U+25C6><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2746><U+260E><U+276F> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E>
                                               <U+2737><U+2713><U+2712><U+2737>
                 <U+276F><U+2747>P<U+2706><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2701><U+271E><U+25C6><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>P<U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2746><U+260E><U+276F> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759>
                   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2746><U+271D> <U+2747><U+2711> <U+2746> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2711>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2713><U+2712><U+261E>
                   <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+2706><U+25C6><U+270C> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+276F><U+2747>P<U+2706><U+260E><U+260E><U+2746><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2704>
                  <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2746><U+271D> <U+2747><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+2702><U+260E><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>
                                     <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+2704> <U+2759><U+2706> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2704><U+271E><U+270F><U+2702><U+2759>
                                                <U+2737><U+2713><U+2712><U+270D>
              <U+2701><U+271E>P<U+2720><U+2746><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2746> <U+2720><U+271D><U+276F><U+2704><U+2746><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2711> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2746><U+2704><U+2746>P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+260E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2746><U+2704><U+2746>P<U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
                <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2746> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2704> <U+2746> <U+2759><U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2747><U+276F> <U+2706><U+25C6><U+2702> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+2746> <U+2759><U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+25C6><U+260E> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+25CF><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2746> <U+2759><U+2706> <U+2720><U+271D><U+2746><U+2711> <U+271E><U+271F> <U+2706>P<U+2706><U+271D><U+2746><U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2759> <U+2759><U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+25C6><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+271E><U+25C6> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271E>P<U+2720><U+2746><U+2704><U+2706> <U+271E><U+25C6>
                                                 <U+2737><U+2713><U+2737><U+261B>

                                                                       <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2702>                                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                               <U+2720>                <U+2736>
                                  <U+2748><U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>
                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                      <U+261B>           <U+271E>                                                                             <U+2715>
                                       <U+2702>
                      <U+271D>           <U+271D>    <U+260E>           <U+270C>
                              <U+2717>
                      <U+2720>       <U+270C>   <U+2702>    <U+271D>           <U+2715>
                      <U+261E>           <U+2706>    <U+2720>       <U+2737>
                                                   <U+2715>
                          <U+2737>
                              <U+2715>   <U+260E>    <U+271F>
                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2704>    <U+2702>
                      <U+261E>
                                       <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+271D>               <U+2748>
                                                                                                       <U+2714>                        <U+2715>
                                                                                       <U+2720>               <U+2712>
                  <U+270C>                                                                                                             <U+2736>
                  <U+270C>                                                                <U+25C6>                   <U+271D>                    <U+2737>
              <U+2737>
                                                                                       <U+260E>               <U+2702>                        <U+2715>
                  <U+2715>                                                                    <U+2702>               <U+260E>
                                                                                       <U+2704>               <U+2704><U+2701>
                                           <U+271D>
                                           <U+2720>
                                           <U+2706>
                                           <U+2706>               <U+2715>
                                                           <U+270C>
                                           <U+2702>
                                           <U+2748>
                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                           <U+2715>
                                           <U+2720>                                   <U+261B>                   <U+2721>
                                                                               <U+271D>                   <U+2714>
                                           <U+271D>
                                           <U+271F>                                   <U+2714>                   <U+271D>
                                                                               <U+2759>                   <U+2720>                    <U+2718>
                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+2704>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                               <U+2720>                                        <U+2715>
                                                                               <U+2748>                   <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2702>                   <U+260E>
                                                                               <U+2706>                   <U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2716>                               <U+2759>
                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2715>

