l :\dar\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16058482 l.docx-23
                                                  112017
                                                         ABSTRACT
                  The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following structural
formula:
                                                          N     OH
                                                          0                         (I)
(Formula I Hemitartrate), which may be used in pharmaceutical applications, are disclosed.
Particular single crystalline forms of the Formula (I) Hemitartrate are characterized by a
variety of properties and physical measurements. As well, methods of producing
crystalline Formula (I) Hemitartrate, and using it to inhibit glucosylceramide synthase or
lowering glycosphingolipid concentrations in subjects to treat a number of diseases, are
also discussed. Pharmaceutical compositions are also described.

H:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16058482 l.docx-23
                                                  112017
                 AN AMORPHOUS AND A CRYSTALLINE FORM OF GENZ 112638
         HEMITARTRAT AS INHIBITOR OF GLUCOSYLCERAMIDE SYNTHASE
                                                          RELATED APPLICATIONS
                 This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                 This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application no. 61/264,748,
filed on November 27, 2009, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein.
                                                                  BACKGROUND
                 Glycosphingolipids (GSLs) are a class of naturally-occurring compounds which
have a multitude of biological functions, including the ability to promote cell growth, cell
differentiation, adhesion between cells or between cells and matrix proteins, binding of
microorganisms and viruses to cells, and metastasis of tumor cells. GSLs are derived from
glucosylceramide (GlcCer), which is produced from ceramide and UDP-glucose by the
enzyme UDP-glucose: N-acylsphingosine glucosyltransferase (GlcCer synthase). The
structure of ceramide is shown below:
                                                                               0
                                                                    C17 H35      NH
                                                         C13 H2 7                   OH
                                                                             OH
                                                                    Ceramide
                 The accumulation of GSLs has been linked to a number of diseases, including Tay
Sachs, Gaucher, and Fabry diseases (see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 6,051,598). GSLs
have also been linked to certain cancers. For example, it has been found that certain GSLs
occur only in tumors or at abnormally high concentrations in tumors; exert marked
stimulatory or inhibitory actions on tumor growth when added to tumor cells in culture
media; and inhibit the body's normal immunodefense system when shed by tumors into the
surrounding extracellular fluid. The composition of a tumor's GSLs changes as the tumors
become increasingly malignant and antibodies to certain GSLs inhibit the growth of
tumors.
                                                                          - 1-

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
              Compounds which inhibit GlcCer synthase can lower GSL concentrations
     and have been reported to be useful for treating a subject with one of the
     aforementioned diseases. A number of potent inhibitors of GIcCer, referred to
     herein as "amino ceramide-like compounds", are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos.
 5   6,051,598, 5,952,370, 5,945,442, 5,916,911 and 6,030,995. The compound of
     Formula (I), shown below, is a GicCer synthase inhibitor currently in clinical trials
     for the treatment of Gaucher disease:
                                        N       OH
                                           NH
                                             00
                                                 0                        (I).
              There is a need for salt forms of this drug candidate that are crystalline
10   and otherwise have physical properties that are amenable to large scale
     manufacture. There is also a need for pharmaceutical formulations in which this
     drug candidate is stable and effectively delivered to the patient, as well as
     improved treatment methods utilizing this compound.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15            It has been found that the hemitartrate salt of the compound of Formula
     (I) (hereinafter "Formula (I) Hemitartrate") can be crystallized under well
     defined conditions to provide certain non-hygroscopic crystalline forms.
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate has several advantageous properties when compared
     to other salts of Formula (I). As described further in Example 1, many Formula
20   (I) salts, including citrate, malate, fumaric, methylsulfonic, and acetic, could
     not be obtained in solid form. Although the hydrochloric and 1:1 tartrate salt of
     Formula (I) were obtained in solid form, neither were crystalline and both were
     too hydroscopic for formulation. Formula (I) Hemitartrate is easier to
     formulate and synthesize than the free base and the other salts. Formula (I)
25   Hemitartrate is also crystalline, non-hydroscopic, water-soluble and flows
     better than the corresponding free base (hereinafter "Formula (I) Free Base")
                                                -2-

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     and other salts. Thus, these favorable properties make Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     amenable to large scale manufacture as a drug candidate.
             It has also been found that stable granules for capsule formulations of
     Formula (1) Hemitartrate can be prepared using defined ratios of a water
 5   insoluble filler, a water soluble filler and Formula (I) Hemitartrate. Based on
     this discovery, stable pharmaceutical formulations of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     are disclosed.
             It has also been found that the compound of Formula (I) or
     pharmace utic ally acceptable salts thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate)
10   are metabolized by the liver, primarily by cytochrome P450 enzymes. Based on
     this discovery, methods of treatment with the compound of Formula (1) or
     pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate)
     that reduce the potential for drug/drug interactions are disclosed.
             It has also been found that Gaucher mice administered recombinant
15   glucocerebrosidase and then Formula (I) Hemitartrate showed lower levels of
     GLl in visceral organs and a reduced number of Gaucher cells in the liver
     compared with treatment with glucocerebrosidase alone or Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate alone. Based on this discovery, combination therapies with the
     compound of Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
20   (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate) are also disclosed.
             One embodiment of the present application is the hemitartrate salt of the
     compound represented by Formula (I). As noted above, the hemitartrate salt of
     the compound represented by Formula (I) is referred to herein as "Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate." The compound represented by Formula (I) is referred to herein
25   as "Formula (I) Free Base."
             Another embodiment of the present application provides a
     pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
     or diluent and Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
             Another embodiment provides a method of inhibiting glucosylceramide
30   synthase or lowering glycosphingolipid concentrations in a subject in need
     thereof by administering to the subject an effective amount of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate.

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
             Another embodiment provides the use of Formula (I) Hemitartrate for
     the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting glucosylceramide synthase or
     lowering glycosphingolipid concentrations in a subject in need thereof.
             Another embodiment provides the use of Formula (1) Hemitartrate for
 5   inhibiting glucosylceramide synthase or lowering glycosphingolipid
     concentrations in a subject in need thereof.
             Another embodiment is a method of treating a subject with Gaucher
     disease. The method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount
     of a first therapeutic agent in combination with an effective amount of a second
10   therapeutic agent. The first therapeutic agent is represented by Formula (I) or a
     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and the second therapeutic agent is
     effective for the treatment of Gaucher disease.
             Another embodiment is a method of treating a subject with Fabry
     disease. The method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount
15   of a first therapeutic agent in combination with an effective amount of a second
     therapeutic agent. The first therapeutic agent is represented by Formula (I) or a
     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and the second therapeutic agent is
     effective for the treatment of Fabry disease.
             Another embodiment provides pharmaceutical composition comprising:
20   the hem itartrate salt of a compound represented by Formula (I); at least one
     water-soluble filler; at least one water-insoluble filler; at least one binder; and
     at least one lubricant.
             Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a subject
     with Fabry disease. The method comprises the steps of:
25           a)      administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
                     of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
             b)      testing the subject to determine whether the subject is a poor,
                     intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer;
             c)      if the subject is an intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450
30                   metabolizer,
                     determining an adjusted effective amount of the compound; and
                                               -4-

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
            d)     administering to the subject an adjusted effective amount of the
                   compound of Formula (I) if the subject is an intermediate or
                   extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer and administering to the
                   subject an effective amount of the compound of Formula (1) if the
 5                 subject is a poor P450 metabolizer.
            Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a subject
     with Gaucher disease. The method comprises the steps of:
            a)     administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
                   of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
10          b)     testing the subject to determine whether the subject is a poor,
                   intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer;
            c)     if the subject is an intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450
                   metabolizer,
                   determining an adjusted effective amount of the compound; and
15          d)     administering to the subject an adjusted effective amount of the
                   compound of Formula (1) if the subject is an intermediate or
                   extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer and administering to the
                   subject an effective amount of the compound of Formula (I) if the
                   subject is a poor P450 metabolizer.
20          Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a subject
     with Fabry disease. The method comprises the steps of:
            a)     administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
                   represented by the following structural formula:
                                       N       OH
                                                            0
                                           NH
                                                            0
                                       0                         ;ora
25                 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
            b)     assessing trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject;
                   and
                                              -5-

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
             c)     adjusting the amount of compound administered to the subject so that
                    the trough plasma levels of the compound are at least 5 ng/ml.
                    Alternatively, the trough plasma levels and Cmax of the compound in
                    the subject are assessed in step b) and in step c) the amount of
 5                  compound administered to the subject is adjusted so that trough
                    plasma levels of the compound in the subject are at least 5 ng/ml and
                    the Cmax of the compound in the subject is below 100 ng/ml.
             Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a subject
     with Gaucher disease. The method comprises the steps of:
10           a)     administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
                    represented by the following structural formula:
                                        N       OH
                                           00
                                                                0
                                           NH
                                        0                            ;or a
                    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
             b)     assessing trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject;
15                  and
             c)     adjusting the amount of compound administered to the subject so
                    that the trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject are
                    least 5 ng/ml. Alternatively, the trough plasma levels and Cinax of
                    the compound in the subject are assessed in step b) and in step c)
20                  the amount of compound administered to the subject is adjusted
                    so that trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject are at
                    least 5 ng/ml and the Cmax of the compound in the subject is
                    below 100 ng/ml
25                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             FIG. 1 shows the experimental XRPD pattern (room temperature) for
            la (I) Hemitartrate.
                                               - 6-

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
             FIG. 2 is a graph of the efficacy of enzyme and substrate reduction
     therapies at lowering glucosylceramide levels in the liver of Gaucher mice.
     Liver GLI levels were measured in untreated 3 month-old Gaucher mice (A)
     and following 2 weeks of treatment with recombinant glucocerebrosidase (B).
 5   Mice treated with recombinant glucocerebrosidase were analyzed 10 weeks
     later without further treatment (C) or after therapy with Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate (D) at 150 mg/kg feed. GLi levels in the liver of mice
     administered Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone for the entire period of study (E)
     and in untreated, age-matched controls (F) are also shown. Data are expressed
10   as means ± standard error of the mean (SEM) (n = 5). Statistical significance
     was determined using the unpaired t test.
             FIG. 3 is a graph of the efficacy of enzyme and substrate reduction therapies
     at lowering glucosylceramide levels in the spleen of Gaucher mice. Spleen GLI
     levels were measured in untreated 3 month-old Gaucher mice (A) and following 2
15   weeks of treatment with recombinant glucocerebrosidase (B). Mice treated with
     recombinant glucocerebrosidase were analyzed 10 weeks later without further
     treatment (C) or after therapy with Formula (I) Hemitartrate (D). GLI levels in the
     spleen of mice administered Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone for the entire period of
     study (E) and in untreated, age-matched controls (F) are also shown. Data are
20   expressed as means + standard error of the mean (SEM) (n = 5). Statistical
     significance was determined using the unpaired t test.
             FIG. 4 is a graph of the efficacy of enzyme and substrate reduction therapies
     at lowering glucosylceramide levels in the lung of Gaucher mice. Lung GLI levels
     were measured in untreated 3 month-old Gaucher mice (A) and following 2 weeks
25   of treatment with recombinant glucocerebrosidase (B). Mice treated with
     recombinant glucocerebrosidase were analyzed 10 weeks later without further
     treatment (C) or after therapy with Formula (I) Hemitartrate (D). GL1 levels in the
     lung of mice administered Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone for the entire period of
     study (E) and in untreated, age-matched controls (F) are also shown. Data are
30   expressed as means   ± standard error of the mean (SEM) (n = 5). Statistical
     significance was determined using the unpaired t test.
             FIG. 5 is a graph showing the quantitation of the extent of CD68
     staining in the liver. The extent of CD68-positive staining on the liver sections
                                               -7-

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     was quantified using MetaMorph software. Shown are levels in untreated 3
     month-old Gaucher liver (A) or following treatment with glucocerebrosidase
     (B). Mice treated with enzyme and then analyzed 10 weeks later without
     further therapeutic intervention (C) or after therapy with Formula (I)
 5   Hemitartrate (D) are also illustrated. The extent of staining in the liver of
     Gaucher mice administered Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone (E) and in untreated,
     age-matched control mice (F) are also shown. The data was collated from an
     analysis of ten 400x images per section from each of the mice. Statistical
     significance was determined using the unpaired t test.
10           FIG. 6 is a graph that shows the efficacy of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in
     young D409V/null mice. Formula (1) Hemitartrate was administered to 10
     week-old D409V/null mice daily by oral gavage at a dose of 75 or 150 mg/kg
     for 10 weeks. Glucosylceramidc levels in liver, lung, vasculature and spleen
     were evaluated at the end of the study by HP-TLC. Data are presented as a
15   percentage of GL-I in untreated age-matched control mice. Dashed lines
     indicate glucosylceramide levels observed in normal wild type mice. *p< 0.05;
     **p < 0.01 relative to untreated control (two-tailed, unpaired t-test). Data are
     represented as means + standard error of the mean (SEM) n= 5 for 75 mg/kg; n
     = 6 for 150 mg/kg).
20           FIG. 7 shows the effect of Formula (I) Hemitartrate therapy on the
     accumulation of GL-3 in Fabry mouse liver, heart, kidney, spleen, brain, and
     blood.
             FIG. 8 shows a graph of the effect of Formula (I) Hemitartrate therapy
     on the onset and progression of peripheral neuropathy in Fabry mice.
25           FIG. 9 shows graphs of measurements of some markers of kidney
     function in Fabry mice treated with Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
             FIG. 10 shows a timeline for ERT and SRT studies of mouse
     populations receiving different drug therapies: A) Fabrazyme bimonthly, no
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate; B) Fabrazyme bimonthly and Formula (I)
30   Hemitartrate in food; C) Fabrazyme administered at the beginning of the study
     and at month four of the study and Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; D) no
     Fabrazyme, Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; and E) no drug therapy.
                                             -8-

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
             FIG. 11 shows graphs of blood GL-3 levels in ng/mL of blood in six
     populations (n=7) of mice (A-E Fabry-Rag; and F wild-type); the mice
     populations received the following therapies: A) Fabrazyme bimonthly, no
     Formula (1) Hemitartrate; B) Fabrazyme bimonthly and Formula (I)
 5   Hemitartrate in food; C) Fabrazyme administered at the beginning of the study
     and at month four of the study and Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; D) no
     Fabrazyme, Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; E) no drug therapy; and F) no
     drug therapy.
             FIG. 12 shows graphs of GL-3 levels in Fabry-Rag mice liver and
10   kidney; the mice populations (n=?) received the following therapies: A)
     Fabrazyme bimonthly, no Formula (1) Hemitartrate; B) Fabrazyme bimonthly
     and Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; C) Fabrazyme administered at the
     beginning of the study and at month four of the study and Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate in food; D) no Fabrazyme, Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; and
15   E) no drug therapy
             FIG. 13 shows graphs of urine GL-3 levels in Fabry-Rag mice; the mice
     populations (n=?) received the following therapies: A) Fabrazyme bimonthly,
     no Formula (I) Hemitartrate; B) Fabrazyme bimonthly and Formula (I)
     Hernitartrate in food; C) Fabrazyme administered at the beginning of the study
20   and at month four of the study and Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; D) no
     Fabrazyme, Formula (I) Hemitartrate in food; and E) no drug therapy.
             FIG. 14 is a graph showing the latency in seconds of heat sensitivity of
     Fabry-Rag mice receiving the following therapies: Fabrazyme bimonthly, no
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate; Fabrazyme bimonthly and Formula (I) Hemitartrate
25   in food; Fabrazyme administered at the beginning of the study and at month
     four of the study and Formula (1) Hemitartrate in food; no Fabrazyme, Formula
     (I) Hemitartrate in food; no drug therapy; wild-trype mice; and untreated at
     three months.
             Figure 15 is a graph showing the total amount of degradation area of an
30   HPLC trace of various blends comprising Formula (I) Hemitartrate, Lactose
     Monohydrate capsulating grade and Avicel PH 301 (Microcrystalline cellulose)
     after having been exposed to 85'C for 3 days. The degradation area of the
            trace is ratio of the total area of peaks corresponding to degradation
                                               -9-

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     relative to the total area of peaks corresponding to Formula (I) Hemitartrate and
     degradation products.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             The present application provides unique crystalline forms of Formula (I)
 5   Hemitartrate and new pharmaceutical compositions of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     comprising the crystalline forms of Formula (I) Hemitartrate described herein.
     The present application also provides methods of inhibiting glucosylceramide
     synthase or lowering glycosphingolipid concentrations in a subject in need
     thereof. Additionally, the present application provides methods for preparing
10   specific crystalline forms of Formula (1) Hemitartrate. The present application
     also provides stable pharmaceutical formulations of Formula (I) Hemitartrate,
     combination therapies with the compound of Formula (I) or pharmaceutically
     acceptable salts thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate) and methods of
     treatment with the compound of Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable
15   salts thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate) that minimize the risk of
     drug/drug interactions.
     Crystalline Forms of Formula (I) Heinitartrate
             In a particular embodiment, at least a particular percentage by weight of
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate is crystalline. Particular weight percentages include
20   70%, 72%, 75%, 77%, 80%, 82%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%,
     92%, 93%, 94%. 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.9%, or a percentage
     between 70% and 100%.
             In another particular embodiment, at least a particular percentage by
     weight of Formula (I) Hemitartrate is a single crystalline form of Formula (I)
25   Hemitartrate. Particular weight percentages include 70%, 72%, 75%, 77%,
     80%, 82%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%,
     96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.9%, or a percentage between 70% and 100%.
             As used herein, "crystalline" refers to a solid having a crystal structure
     wherein the individual molecules have a highly homogeneous regular locked-in
30   chemical configuration. Crystalline Formula (I) Hemitartrate can be crystals of
     a single crystalline form of Formula (I) Hemitartrate, or a mixture of crystals of
                                             - 10-

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     different single crystalline forms. A single crystalline form means Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate as a single crystal or a plurality of crystals in which each crystal
     has the same crystal form.
              When a particular percentage by weight of Formula (1) Hemitartrate is a
 5   single crystalline form, the remainder of Formula (I) Hemitartrate is some
     combination of amorphous Formula (I) Hemitartrate, and/or one or more other
     crystalline forms of Formula (1) Hemitartrate excluding the single crystalline
     form. When the crystalline Formula (I) Hemitartrate is defined as a specified
     percentage of one particular crystalline form of Formula (I) Hemitartrate, the
10   remainder is made up of amorphous form and/or crystalline forms other than
     the one or more particular forms that are specified. Examples of a single
     crystalline form include Form A of Formula (I) Hemitartrate characterized by
     one or more properties as discussed herein.
              Because tartaric acid has two carboxylic acid groups, it can form salts with
15   differing molar ratios of the compound represented by Formula (I) to tartrate (the
     conjugate base of tartaric acid). For example, the salt in which there is about a one
     to one molar ratio of tartrate to Formula (I) is Formula (I) Tartrate (1 tartrate: 1
     Formula (I)); and the salt in which there is about a one to two molar ratio of tartrate
     to Formula (I) is Formula (I) Hemitartrate (I tartrate: 2 Formula (I)).
20            The hemitartrate salt can exist in various stereoisomeric forms.
     Stereoisomers are compounds that differ only in their spatial arrangement.
     Enantiomers are pairs of stereoisomers whose mirror images are not superposable,
     most commonly because they contain an asymmetrically substituted carbon atom
     that acts as a chiral center. Diastereomers are stereoisomers that are not related as
25   mirror images, most commonly because they contain two or more asymmetrically
     substituted carbon atoms.
              When the stereochemistry is named (as in, for example, L-(+)-tartaric
     acid) or depicted by structure (as in, for example Formula (I)), the named or
     depicted stereoisomer is at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 99% or 99.9% by
30   weight pure relative to the other stereoisomers. When a single enantiomer is
     named (as in, for example, L-(+)-tartaric acid) or depicted by structure (as in,
     for example Formula (I)), the depicted or named enantiomer is at least 80%,
     90%, 99% or 99.9% by weight optically pure. Percent optical purity by weight
                                                - 11 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     is the ratio of the weight of the enantiomer over the weight of the enantiomer
     plus the weight of its optical isomer.
              "Racemate" or "racemic mixture" means a compound of equimolar
     quantities of two enantiomers, wherein such mixtures exhibit no optical activity;
 5   i.e., they do not rotate the plane of polarized light.
              Tartaric acid has three stereoisomers: L-(+)-tartaric acid or
     dextrotartaric acid and its enantiomer, levotartaric acid or D-(-)-tartaric acid,
     and the achiral form, mesotartaric acid. The L or D designation does not
     indicate the acid's ability to rotate the plane of polarized light.
10            Any of the stereoisomers of tartaric acid can be used to prepare Formula
     (1) Hemitartrate. For example, the hemitartrate can be formed from only one of
     its stereoisomers, or a combination of them thereof. The hemitartrate salt is
     selected from D-hemitartrate, L- hemitartrate, hemimesotartaric acid or racemic
     D,L-hemitartrate. In a specific embodiment, the hemitartrate salt is L
15   hemitartrate. "L-hemitartrate" means that the hemitartrate salt is formed from
     L-tartaric acid. Racemic D,L-hemitartrate means that both D-tartrate and L
     tartrate were used in the preparation of Formula (I) Hemitartrate. The amount
     of D-tartrate in racemic D,L-hemitartrate may be greater than, equal to, or less
     than the amount of L-tartrate present.
20            "Levorotatory" signifies that polarized light is rotated to the left when
     passed through an asymmetric compound. The prefix to designate levorotary is
     "L".
              "Dextrorotatory" signifies that polarized light is rotated to the right
     when passed through an asymmetric compound. The prefix to designate
25   levorotary is "D".
     Preparationof Formula (J) Hemitartrate
              Formula (I) Hemitartrate can be prepared by mixing Formula (I) with L
     tartaric acid in a suitable solvent. Precipitation of Formula (1) Hemitartrate can
     be assisted by the addition of a seed crystal. The solvents that may be used are
30   methanol, water, ethanol, acetone, ethyl acetate, or combinations thereof.
              The particular solid forms of Formula (I) Hemitartrate can be prepared,
     for example, by slow evaporation, slow cooling, and antisolvent precipitation.
            ..Events that may be used in these methods include water, heptane, hexane,
                                                - 12 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     toluene, dichloromethane, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, acetonitrile, ethyl acetate,
     methanol, acetone, methyl tertiary-butyl ether (referred to as "TBME" herein),
     p-dioxane, and tetrahydrofuran (referred to as "THF" herein).
             Formula (1) Hemitartrate solid forms can be prepared by solvent
 5   evaporation from a solution of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in a solvent or a
     solvent mixture. Suitable solvent mixtures include methanol, ethanol, acetone,
     water, ethyl acetate and dichloromethane. Preferred solvent mixtures include
     ethanol, methanol, water and acetone.
             Formula (I) Hemitartrate solid forms can be prepared through slow
10   cooling of a heated solution of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in a solvent. Suitable
     solvents include ethanol, methanol, water, acetone, and ethyl acetate.
             Formula (I) Hemitartrate solid forms can be prepared through rapid
     cooling of a heated solution of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in a solvent, by placing
     the solution in an cooling bath. Suitable solvents include ethanol, methanol,
15   acetone, water, ethyl acetate or mixtures of these solvents.
             Formula (I) Hemitartrate solid forms can be prepared by adding a
     solution of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in a solvent as described above to an anti
     solvent at a given temperature. More particularly, the anti-solvent is ethyl
     acetate, acetone, acetonitrile, toluene, THF, TBME, p-dioxane, isopropanol, or
20   heptane. Particular solvent/antisolvent mixtures include methanol/ethyl
     acetate, methanol/acetone, methanol /hexane, methanol/heptane,
     methanol/acetonitrile, methanol/toluene, methanol/THF, methanol/TBME,
     methanol/p-dioxane, ethanol/ethyl acetate, ethanol/hexane, ethanol/heptane,
     ethanol, acetone, ethanol/acetonitrile, ethanol/toluene, ethanol/TBME,
25   ethanol/THF, water/THF, water/isopropanol, water/acetonitrile, water/acetone,
     dichloromethane/heptane, dichloromethane/acetone, dichloromethane/ethyl
     acetate, dichloromethane/acetonitrile, dichloromethane/toluene,
     dichloromethane/THF, dichloromethane/TBME, dichloromethane/p-dioxane,
     and dichloromethane/isopropanol.
30           Preferred solvent/antisolvent mixtures include methanol/ethyl acetate,
     methanol/acetone, methanol/TBME, and water/acetone.
                                             - 13 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
             As used herein, "anti-solvent" refers to a solvent, in which Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate has low solubility and cause the Hemitartrate to precipitate out of
     solution in the form of fine powder or crystals.
             Additional methods to generate the solid forms of Formula (I)
 5   Hemitartrate include precipitating the solid from ethyl acetate/acetone and
     optionally drying solid formed at room temperature. In another method, the
     solid can then be recrystallized from acetone with or without the addition of a
     seed crystal. Alternatively, Formula (I) Hemitartrate can be precipitated from
     ethyl acetate/acetone solvents and recrystallized from ethyl acetate.
10   Alternatively, Formula (I) Hemitartrate can then be recrystallized from
     isopropanol. Alternatively Formula (1) Hemitartrate can be prepared using
     acetone only with no further recrystallization. Alternatively Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate can be precipitated from acetone following a brief reflux, without
     further recrystallization.
15           Alternatively, Formula (I) Hemitartrate can then be recrystallized from
     methanol/acetone with or without the addition of a seed crystal. Alternatively,
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate can then be recrystallized from water/acetone with or
     without the addition of a seed crystal.
     Characterizationof (rystalline Forms of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
20           In a particular embodiment, the crystalline form of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate, crystal Form A, is characterized by one, two, three, four or five
     major XRPD peaks at 20 angles of 5.1', 6.6', 10.7', 11.0', 15.90, and 21.7'. In
     an even more particular embodiment, the crystalline form is characterized by
     XRPD peaks at 20 angles of 5.1', 6.60, 10.70, 11.00, 13.30, 15.1 , 15.90, 16.50,
25   17.60, 18.60, 18.70, 19.00, 20.20, 21.70 and 23.50. It is to be understood that a
     specified 20 angle means the specified value ± 0.20.
             As used herein, "major XRPD peak" refers to an XRPD peak with a
     relative intensity greater than 25%. Relative intensity is calculated as a ratio of
     the peak intensity of the peak of interest versus the peak intensity of the largest
30   peak.
     Methods of Treatment Using Formula (1) Hemitartrate
                                             - 14 -

WO 2011/066352                                                         PCT/US2010/057952
             As used herein, a subject is a mammal, preferably a human patient, but
     can also be an animal in need of veterinary treatment, such as a companion
     animal (e.g., dogs, cats, and the like), a farm animal (e.g., cows, sheep, pigs,
     horses, and the like) or a laboratory animal (e.g., rats, mice, guinea pigs, and
 5   the like). Subject and patient are used interchangeably.
             One embodiment of the present application is a method of slowing , e.g.,
     inhibiting or reducing the activity of glucosylceramide synthase or lowering
     glycosphingolipid concentrations in a subject in need thereof by administering
     to the subject an effective amount of Formula (I) Hemitartrate salt, including
10   crystalline forms thereof, as described above.
             A subject in need of treatment is a subject with a condition or disease that
     benefits from inhibiting glucosylceramide synthase or lowering glycosphingolipid
     concentrations in the cells, particularly the lysosome or the membrane of cells.
     Inhibitors of glucosylceramide synthase have been shown to be useful for treating
15   lysosomal storage diseases such as Tay-Sachs, Gaucher or Fabry disease (see, for
     example, U.S. Patent Nos. 6,569,889; 6,255,336; 5,916,911; 5,302,609; 6,660,749;
     6,610,703; 5,472,969; 5,525,616, the entire teachings of which are incorporated
     herein by reference).
             Examples of conditions or diseases include polycystic kidney disease
20   and membranous glomerulopathy (see U.S. Provisional Patent Applications
     61/130,401 and 61/102,541, the entire teachings of which are incorporated
     herein by reference), Glomerulonephritis and Glomerulosclerosis (See U.S.
     Provisional Patent Application 61/137,214) lupus (See PCT/US2009/00 1773,
     the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference) diabetes,
25   including type 2 diabetes (see WO 2006/053043, the entire teachings of which
     are incorporated herein by reference); treating disorders involving cell growth
     and division, including cancer, collagen vascular diseases, atherosclerosis, and
     the renal hypertrophy of diabetic patients (see U.S. Patent Nos. 6,916,802 and
     5,849,326, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference);
30   inhibiting the growth of arterial epithelial cells (see U.S. Patent Nos. 6,916,802
     and 5,849,326); treating patients suffering from infections (see Svensson, M. et
     al., "Epithelial Glucosphingolipid Expression as a Determinant of Bacterial
     Adherence and Cytokine Production," Infect. and Immun., 62:4404-4410
                                                - 15 -

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     (1994), the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference);
     preventing the host, i.e., patient, from generating antibodies against the tumor
     (see Inokuchi, J. et al., "Antitumor Activity in Mice of an Inhibitor of
     Glycosphingolipid Biosynthesis," Cancer Let., 38:23-30(1987), the entire
 5   teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference); and treating tumors
     (see Hakomori, S. "New Directions in Cancer Therapy Based on Aberrant
     Expression of Glycosphingolipids: Anti-adhesion and Ortho-Signaling
     Therapy," Cancer Cells 3:461-470 (1991), Inokuchi, J. et al., "Inhibition of
     Experimental Metastasis of Murine Lewis Long Carcinoma by an Inhibitor of
10   Glucosylceramide Synthase and its Possible Mechanism of Action," Cancer
     Res., 50:6731-6737 (1990) and Ziche, M. et al., "Angiogenesis Can Be
     Stimulated or Repressed in In Vivo by a Change in GM3 :GD3 Ganglioside
     Ratio," Lab. Invest., 67:711-715 (1992), the entire teachings of which are
     incorporated herein by reference).
15          Formula (I) Hemitartrate can also be used for a cancer vaccine-like
     preparation (see, for example, U.S. PatentNos. 6,569,889; 6,255,336; 5,916,911;
     5,302,609; 6,660,749; 6,610,703; 5,472,969; 5,525,616).
            The compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
     thereof (including the hemitartrate salt thereof) can be used in the disclosed
20   methods as a mono-therapy, i.e., as the only pharmaceutically active ingredient
     being administered to treat the indication.
            Alternatively, the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically
     acceptable salt thereof (including the hemitartrate salt thereof) can be used in
     the disclosed methods as a combination therapy with other therapeutically
25   active drugs known in the art for treating the desired diseases or indications.
     "Co-therapy" or "combination" or "combination therapy" or "co-administered"
     are used interchangeably herein and mean that the compound of Formula (I) or
     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (including the hemitartrate salt) is
     administered before, after, or concurrently with one or more other therapeutic
30   agents. In one embodiment, a combination therapy is used to treat a lysosomal
     disease such as Gaucher disease or Fabry disease. Alternatively, the compound
     of Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (including the
     hemitartrate salt) is co-administered simultaneously (e.g., concurrently) as
                                             - 16-

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     either separate formulations or as a joint formulation. Alternatively, the agents
     can be administered sequentially, as separate compositions, within an
     appropriate time frame, as determined by the skilled clinician (e.g., a time
     sufficient to allow an overlap of the pharmaceutical effects of the therapies).
 5   The compound of Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
     (including the hemitartrate salt) and one or more other therapeutic agents can
     be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses, in an order and on a
     schedule suitable to achieve a desired therapeutic effect.
             Therapeutic agents effective for the treatment of Gaucher disease
10   include glucocerebrosidase, analogues of glucocerebrosidase, inhibitors of
     glucosylceraiide synthase and molecular chaperones which bind to
     glucocerebrosidase and restore its correct conformation. Glucocerebrosidase or
     analogues thereof can be human or mammal derived. Alternatively,
     glucocerebrosidase and analogues thereof can be obtained recombinately.
15   Analogues of glucocerebrosidase include truncated forms of the enzyme and/or
     enzymes with amino acid substitutions relative to the native amino sequence of
     the native enzyme, provided that the biological activity is retained. Examples of
     analogues of glucocerebrosidase include Imiglucerase (sold under the
     tradename Cerezyrne" by Genzyrne Corporation), Taliglucerase Alfa (to be
20   marketed under the tradename Uplyso* and developed by Protalix
     Biotherapeutics, Inc.) and Velaglucerase Alfa (developed by Shire PLC),
     which are recombinant DNA-produced analogue of human p
     glucocerebrosidase. Examples of molecular chaperones include isofagomine (in
     development under the tradename PliceraTM by Amicus Therapeutics, Cranbury,
25   NJ). Isofagomine is also known as afegostat tartrate and contains the tartrate
     salt form of isofagomine as its active ingredient. Examples of
     glucocerebrosidase inhibitors include miglustat (developed under the tradename
     of Zavesca   Tm by Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Allschwil, Switzerland).
             Therapeutic agents effective for the treatment of Fabry disease include
30   a galactosidase A. analogues of a galactosidase A and molecular chaperones
     which bind to a galactosidase A and restore its correct conformation. u
     Galactosidase A or analogues thereof can be human or mammal derived.
     Alternatively, a galactosidase A and analogues thereof can be obtained
                                            - 17-

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     recombinantely. Analogues of u galactosidase A include truncated forms of the
     enzyme and/or enzymes with amino acid substitutions relative to the native
     amino sequence of the native enzyme, provided that the biological activity is
     retained. Examples of analogues of u galactosidase A include Agalsidase beta
 5   (a recombinant human ct-galactosidase sold under the tradename Fabrazyme* as
     a freeze-dried medicine by Genzyme Corporation) and Agalsidase alfa (a
     recombinant protein sold under the tradename Replagal" by Shire PLC).
     Examples of molecular chaperones include migalastat (developed under the
     tradename AmigalTM by Amicus Therapeutics, Cranbury, NJ as a drug
10   containing migalastat hydrochloride as its active ingredient).
             In one embodiment, the combination therapy for the treatment of
     Gaucher or Fabry disease is carried out in two stages. In a first stage, a drug
     effective for the treatment of Gaucher disease or Fabry disease (typically,
     glucocerebrosidase of an analogue thereof for Gaucher disease and
15   galactosidase A or an analogue thereof for Fabry disease) is used to stabilize
     the subject. For example, in Gaucher disease (or Fabry disease), one of these
     drugs is used to reduce the burden of GL-1 storage in the visceral organs such
     as in the liver, spleen, lung and/or kidney. Once this has been accomplished,
     the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
20   (including the hemitartrate salt) is used in the second stage as a convenient
     maintenance therapy. The first stage typically lasts up to one, two, three or
     four weeks or up to one, two, three, four, six, nine or twelve months, or until
                                                                          3
     the subject's platelet count is equal to or greater than 100,000 m     ;
     hemoglobin concentration is equal to or greater than 11 g/dl (female) or 12 g/dl
25   (male); and/or the subject's spleen volume is less than or equal to 10 multiples
     of normal and liver volumes are less than or equal to 1.5 multiples of normal.
     Administration of the first stage is typically ended once therapy with the
     compound of Formula (I) is initiated.
             As used herein, an "effective amount" refers to an amount effective to
30   alleviate the existing symptoms of the subject being treated with minimal
     unacceptable side effects in the subject. The exact formulation, route of
     administration, and dosage is chosen by the individual physician in view of the
     patient's condition. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to
                                             - 18-

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     provide plasma levels of the active compound that are sufficient to maintain
     desired therapeutic effects. In addition to the patient's condition and the mode
     of administration, the dose administered would depend on the severity of the
     patient's symptoms and the patient's age and weight. An effective amount will
 5   typically result in plasma trough levels of the compound above at least 5 ng/ml.
     If plasma trough levels are below 5 ng/ml following administration of an
     effective amount of the compound, the dose being administered to that subject
     is changed to an "adjusted effective amount" such that the trough levels of the
     compound are at least 5 ng/ml. Alternatively, if trough plasma levels of the
10   compound are below 5 ng/ml and/or the Cmnax is above 100 ng/ml following
     administration of an effective amount of the compound, the dose being
     administered to the subject is changed to an "adjusted effective amount" such
     that the trough plasma levels of the compound are at least 5 ng/ml and the Cm,,
     is below 100 ng/ml. Effective amounts can range from 0.1 to 500 mg/per day.
15   Alternatively, the effective amount ranges from 50-300 mg/day. In another
     alternative, the effective amount ranges from 100-300 mg/day. The compound
     of the present application may be administered continuously or at specific
     timed intervals. For example, the compound of the present application may be
     administered 1, 2, 3, or 4 times per day, such as, e.g., a daily or twice-daily
20   formulation. Commercially available assays may be employed to determine
     optimal dose ranges and/or schedules for administration.
             In one embodiment, an effective amount for the compound of Formula
     (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (including the hemitartrate salt
     described above) is (whether as a monotherapy or as a co-therapy) a daily dose
25   of from 25 milligrams to 300 milligrams (alternatively 25 milligrams to 150
     milligrams; in another alternative from 50 milligrams to 300 milligrams; and in
     another alternative from 100 milligrams to 300 milligrams), such as 25, 50,
     100, 200 or 300 milligrams per day. In a specific embodiment, an effective
     amount of the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
30   thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate) is (whether as a monotherapy or as
     a co-therapy) a twice daily dose of 50 milligrams (for a total of 100 milligrams
     per day), 100 milligrams (for a total of 200 milligrams per day) or 150
     milligrams (for a total of 300 milligrams per day). In an alternative
                                            - 19-

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     embodiment, an effective amount for the compound of Formula (I) or a
     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (including Formula (I) Hemitartrate) is
     (whether as a monotherapy or as a co-therapy) administered as a once daily
     dose of 100 milligrams/day, 200 milligrams/day or 300 milligrams/day.
 5           In another embodiment, an effective amount is determined is by
     assuming that the subject is a "poor P450 metabolizer" and then assessing
     trough plasma levels and/or Cmax. The amount administered to the subject is
     then changed to an adjusted effective amount, as described below, if the trough
     plasma levels are below 5 ng/ml; or the trough levels of the compound are
10   below 5 ng/ml and/or the Cmax is above 100 ng/ml; or if the subject is
     determined to be an intermediate or extensive/ultrarapid P450 metabolizer. An
     effective amount for poor P450 metabolizers is (whether as a monotherapy or
     as a co-therapy) commonly between 100-200 milligrams per day, for example
     100 or 200 milligrams, as a once daily dose or twice daily dose.
15           Typically, the pharmaceutical compositions of the present application
     can be administered before or after a meal, or with a meal. As used herein,
     "before" or "after" a meal is typically within two hours, preferably within one
     hour, more preferably within thirty minutes, most preferably within ten minutes
     of commencing or finishing a meal, respectively.
20           It has now been found that the compound of Formula (I) and
     pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof (including Formula (1) Hemitartrate)
     is metabolized by the liver, primarily by cytochrome P450 enzymes.
     Cytochrome P450s ("CYPs") are the principal hepatic xenobiotic metabolizing
     enzymes. There are eleven xenobiotic-metabolizing cytochrome P450s
25   expressed in a typical human liver (i.e., CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6,
     CYP2C8/9/18/19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4/5). It has now also been
     found that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are the primary cytochrome P450 isoforms
     that are responsible for de-toxifying the compound of Formula (I) and its
     pharmaceutical active salts, such as Formula (1) Hemitartrate. The level of
30   activity of P450 enzymes differs according to the individual. For example,
     individuals can be classified as poor, intermediate and extensive/ultra rapid
     P450 metabolizers. Because lower levels of P450 activity in an individual can
     give rise to drug/drug interactions ("DDI"), another embodiment of the
                                            -20-

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     invention is to determine whether the subject is a poor, intermediate and
     extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer. If the subject is an intermediate or
     extensive/ultra rapid metabolizer, then the dose administered to that subject
     should be raised to an "adjusted effective dose", i.e., the amount which results
 5   in trough plasma levels of the compound of at least 5 ng/ml; or the amount
     which results in trough levels of the compound or at least 5 ng/ml and a Cmax of
     the compound below 100 ng/ml. The dose can raised incrementally and the
     subject retested once, twice, three, four or as many times as necessary to
     achieve an adjusted effective dose.
10            For the CYP 2D6 gene there are four predicted phenotypes:
              A "poor P450 metabolizer" carries two mutant alleles, which result in
     complete loss of enzyme activity.
              A, "intermediate P450 metabolizer" possess one reduced activity allele
     and one null allele.
15            A "extensive P450 metabolizer" posses at least one and no more than
     two normal functional alleles.
              A "ultra rapid P450 metabolizer" carries multiple copies (3-13) of
     functional alleles and produce excess enzymatic activity.
              A subject is typically assessed as being a poor, intermediate or extensive
20   / /ultra rapid P450 metabolizer either through genotyping or through the
     monitoring of the trough plasma levels of a drug that is metabolized by a P450
     enzyme such as CYP2D6 or CYP3A4. Commonly, the trough plasma levels
     and/or   Cmax of the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable
     salt thereof, including Formula (I) hemitartrate are monitored in the subject for
25   up to one, two, three or four weeks, or up to one, two, three, six, nine or twelve
     months or more following initiation of treatment with the compound.
     Adjustments to the dose are made, as necessary, to maintain the levels within
     the described limits, i.e., a trough plasma level at or above 5 ng/ml.
              Subjects can become poor P450 metabolizers as a result of being treated
30   with certain drugs that are P450 enzyme inhibitors. Examples of such drugs
     include paroxetine, fluoxetine, quinidine, or ketoconazole. Alternatively, a
     subject is a poor P450 metabolizer as a result of low expression of a P450
     enzyme. In such instances, the low expression can be assessed by determining
                                              - 21 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     P450 enzyme expression in the subject, i.e., genotyping the subject for the P450
     enzyme. For example, expression of CYP2D6 is commonly assessed by PCR
     (McElroy et.al. "CYP2D6 Genotyping as an Alternative to Phenotyping for
     Determination of Metabolic Status in a Clinical Trial Setting", AAPS Pharmsi
 5   (2000) 2(4):article 33 (http://w'wxw.pharmsci.org/)) or by microarray based
     pharmacogenomic testing (Background Information, Roche Diagnostics "The
     CYP450 Gene Family and Drug Metabolism", Hoffmann La Roche Ltd.), the
     entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference. As such, the
     subject can be conveniently genotyped for P450 expression (e.g., CYP2D6)
10   prior to the initiation of treatment and administered an adjusted effective
     amount, if necessary. In the event of genotyping prior to the initiation of
     treatment, it is still advisable to monitor trough plasma levels and    Cmax of the
     compound and adjust the dose, as necessary.
             Effective amounts for migalastat, agalsidase P, imiglucerase,
15   isofagomine and miglustat are as described on the drug label or as carried out in
     the clinical trials of each drug.
             The compound of Formula (I) can react with pharmaceutically
     acceptable acids to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of
     pharmaceutically acceptable acids included inorganic acids such as
20   hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric
     acid, and the like, and organic acids such as p-toluenesulfonic acid,
     methanesulfonic acid, oxalic acid, p-bromophenyl-sulfonic acid, carbonic acid,
     succinic acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, acetic acid, and the like. Examples of
     such salts include the sulfate, pyrosulfate, bisulfate, sulfite, bisulfite,
25   phosphate, monohydrogenphosphate, dihydrogenphosphate, metaphosphate,
     pyrophosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, acetate, prop ionate, decanoate,
     caprylate, acrylate, formate, isobutyrate, caproate, heptanoate, propiolate,
     oxalate, malonate, succinate, suberate, sebacate, fumarate, maleate, butyne-1,4
     dioate, hexyne-1,6-dioate, benzoate, chlorobenzoate, methylbenzoate,
30   dinitrobenzoate, hydroxybenzoate, methoxybenzoate, phthalate, sulfonate,
     xylenesulfonate, phenylacetate, phenylpropionate, phenylbutyrate, citrate,
     lactate, gamma-hydroxybutyrate, glycolate, tartrate, methanesulfonate,
                                              - 22 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     propanesulfonate, naphthalene- I -sulfonate, naphthalene-2-sulfonate, mandelate,
     and the like.
    Pharmaceutical Composilions Including Formula (1) Hem ilartrate
 5           Suitable formulations and modes of administration for the compound of
     Formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (including the
     hernitartrate salt thereof) include those described in U.S. Patent No. 7,253,185,
     the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference. A preferred
     formulation for Formula (I) Hemitartrate is described in the following
10   paragraphs.
     One embodiment of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising
     Formula (I) Hernitartrate, at least one water-soluble filler, at least one water
     insoluble filler, at least one binder, and at least one lubricant. Suitable water
     soluble fillers can include, for example, anhydrous lactose, lactose
15   monohydrate, mannitol, sodium chloride, powdered sugar, sorbitol, sucrose,
     inositol and pregelatinized starch. Suitable water-insoluble fillers can include,
     for example, microcrystalline cellulose, calcium phosphate and starch. Suitable
     binders can include, for example, pre-gelatinized starch, sodium carboxymethyl
     cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, polyvinyl
20   pyrrolidone, copolyvidone, gelatin, natural gums, starch paste, sucrose, corn
     syrup, polyethylene glycols and sodium alginate. Suitable lubricants can
     include, for example, hydrogenated vegetable oil, calcium stearate, and glyceryl
     behenate. In one embodiment of the pharmaceutical composition, the water
     soluble filler is selected from the group consisting of anhydrous lactose, lactose
25   monohydrate, mannitol, sodium chloride, powdered sugar, sorbitol, sucrose,
     inositol and pregelatinized starch; the water-insoluble filler is selected from the
     group consisting of microcrystalline cellulose, calcium phosphate and starch
     the binder is selected from the group consisting of pre-gelatinized starch,
     sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
30   methyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, copolyvidone, gelatin, natural gums,
     starch paste, sucrose, corn syrup, polyethylene glycols and sodium alginate; and
     the lubricant is selected from the group consisting of hydrogenated vegetable
     oil, calcium stearate, and glyceryl behenate.
                                              - 23 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
              The pharmaceutical formula comprises between 8 wt% to 32 wt%, between 8
     wt% to 24 wt% , between 12 wt% to 20 wt% or between 14 wt% to 18 wt% of the
     water insoluble filler on a dry solids basis.
              The pharmaceutical formula comprises between 26 wt% to 50 wt%, between
 5   30 wt% to 46 wt% , between 34 wt% to 46 wt% or between 38 wt% to 44 wt% of
     the water soluble filler on a dry solids basis.
              The pharmaceutical composition comprises between 30 wt% and 45 wt%o,
     between 35 wt% and 40 wt % and 36 wt% to 39 wt % Formula (I) Hemitartrate on a
     dry solids basis.
10            The pharmaceutical formulation typically comprises between 2 wt% and 6
     wt% binder on a dry solids basis.
              The pharmaceutical formulation typically comprises between 0. 1 wt% and 2
     wt% binder on a dry solids basis.
              In a specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical formula comprises between 8
15   wt% to 32 wt% water insoluble filler, between 26 wt% to 50 wt%, water soluble
     filler, between 30 wt% and 45 wto Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2 wt% and 6
     wt% binder and between 0.1 wt% and 2 wt% binder, all on a dry solids basis.
     More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and the water
     insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the water
20   soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline
     cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the lubricant is glyceryl
     behenate.
              In a specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical formula comprises between 8
     wt% to 32 wt% water insoluble filler, between 26 wt% to 50 wt%, water soluble
25   filler, between 35 wt% and 40 wt% Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2 wt% and 6
     wt% binder and between 0.1 wt% and 2 wt% binder, all on a dry solids basis.
     More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and the water
     insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the water
     soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline
30   cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the lubricant is glyceryl
     behenate.
              In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical formula comprises
     between 8 wt% to 24 wt% water insoluble filler, between 30 wt% to 46 wt%, water
                                                - 24 -

WO 2011/066352                                                           PCT/US2010/057952
     soluble filler, between 35 wt% and 40 wt% Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2
     wt% and 6 wt% binder and between 0.1 wt% and 2 wt% binder, all on a dry solids
     basis. More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and the
     water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the water
 5   soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline
     cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the lubricant is glyceryl
     behenate.
             In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical fornula comprises
     between 12 wt% to 20 wt% water insoluble filler, between 34 wt% to 46 wt%, water
10   soluble filler, between 35 wt% and 40 wt% Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2
     wt% and 6 wt% binder and between 0.1 wt% and 2 wt% binder, all on a dry solids
     basis. More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and the
     water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the water
     soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline
15   cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the lubricant is glyceryl
     behenate.
             In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical formula comprises
     between 14 wt% to 18 wt% water insoluble filler, between 38 wt% to 44 wt%, water
     soluble filler, between 35 wt% and 40 wt% Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2
20   wt% and 6 wt% binder and between 0.1 wt % and 2 wt % binder, all on a dry
     solids basis. More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and
     the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the
     water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is
     microcrystalline cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the
25   lubricant is glyceryl behenate.
             In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical formula comprises
     between 14 wt% to 18 wt% water insoluble filler, between 38 wt% to 44 wrt%, water
     soluble filler, between 36 wt% and 39 w-t% Formula (I) Hemitartrate, between 2 wt
     % and 6 wt % binder and between 0.1 wt% and 2 wt% binder, all on a dry solids
30   basis. More specifically, the water-soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; and the
     water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline cellulose. Even more specifically the water
     soluble filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is microcrystalline
                                               - 25 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and the lubricant is glyceryl
     behenate.
             The invention is illustrated by the following examples, which are not
 5   intended to be limiting in any way.
      EXPERIMENTAL
     Example 1: Preparationof Salts of Formula (I)
             The hemitartrate salt of Formula I is readily crystallized and exhibits
10   many beneficial properties as compared to other salts. For example, the
     following acids were used in the preparation of salts of the compound
     represented by Formula (I): citric acid (generating salts in 1:1, 1:2, and 1:3
     (salt:Formula 1) ratios); L-malic (1:1 and 1:2); methane sulfonic acid (1:1);
     fumaric acid (1:1 and 1:2); hydrochloric acid (1:1); acetic acid (1:1) and tartaric
15   acid (1:1 and 1:2). Only salts generated by hydrochloric acid (1:1); tartaric
     acid (1:1) and tartaric acid (1:2) were of solid form. Of these three salts
     hydrochloric acid (1:1) and tartaric acid (1:1) were found to be hygroscopic and
     non-crystalline and therefore unacceptable for use in a pharmaceutical product.
     The hemitartrate ( I salt: 2 Formula I) of the compound represented by Formula
20   I was found to be crystalline and non-hygroscopic.
     Acetone preparation of Formula (1) Hemitartrate
             L-tartaric acid (6.02 g , 40.11 mmol, 0.497 equivalents) was dissolved in
     acetone (175 mL) by refluxing the solution and then cooling to room temperature.
25   Formula (I) Free Base (32.67 g, 80.76 mmol) was dissolved in acetone (300 mL) at
     room temperature. The L-tartaric acid solution was added to the Formula (I) Free
     Base solution at room temperature over 15 min. A white precipitate fonned half
     way through the addition. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 h
     hours and then briefly refluxed and cooled to room temperature. After stirring a
30   room temperature for 0.5 h, the white precipitate was filtered. The white solid was
     washed twice with acetone (2 x 130 mL). The solid was air dried and then vacuum
     dried at 55-60 'C. The yield was 36.66g (95 %).
                                              - 26 -

WO 2011/066352                                                         PCT/US2010/057952
     5% Methanol in Acetone preparation of Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
             Formula (1) Free Base, 10 g/24.7 mmol, was dissolved in 5%
     Methanol/Acetone 120 mL or 240 mL. L-tartaric acid, 1.85 g/12.3 mmol, was
     dissolved in 5% Methanol/Acetone 60 mL or 120 mL (N or 2N) by warming to 40
 5   45 'C, and this solution was added to the first solution. After 1 hour without
     precipitation, I mg of Formula (I) Henitartrate was added as a seed crystal.
     Precipitation occurred after 5 minutes, and the reaction continued to stir for 30
     minutes more. The reaction was then heated at reflux for 5 minutes (the precipitate
     was completely soluble) and then cooled to room temperature in a water bath 20-22
10   *C. Precipitate formed and the reaction continued to stir for 3 hours. The final
     product was collected by filtration and was washed with acetone, 2 x 40 mL, and
     then dried in the vacuum oven at 55-60 'C for 16 hours. Product weight was 8.72
     g/74% yield.
15   1% Water in Acetone preparation of Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
             Formula (I) Free Base (10 g/24.7 mmol) was dissolved in 1% Water/Acetone
     120 mL or 240 mL at room temperature. L-tartaric acid, 1.85 g/12.3 mmol, was
     dissolved in 1% Water/Acetone 60 mL or 120 mL (N or 2N) by warming to 40-45
     'C, and this solution was added to the first solution. After 1 hour without
20   precipitation, 1 mg of Formula (I) hemitartrate was added as a seed crystal.
     Precipitation occurred after 5 minutes, and the reaction continued to stir for 30
     minutes. The reaction was then heated at reflux for 5 minutes (the precipitate was
     not completely soluble) and then cooled to room temperature in a water bath 20-22
     'C. Precipitate formed and the reaction continued to stir for 3 hours. The final
25   product was collected by filtration and was washed with acetone, 2 x 40 mL, and
     then dried in the vacuum oven at 55-60 'C for 16 hours. Product weight was 8.62 g
     73% yield.
     5% Methanol in Acetone Recrystallization of Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
30           Formula (I) Hemitartrate (3.06 g) was dissolved in 116 mL of 5 %
     methanol in acetone at reflux. The solution was cooled to room temperature
     and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The white precipitate was filtered and
     washed with 10 mL of 5 % methanol in acetone and then acetone (15 mL).
                                              - 27 -

WO 2011/066352                                                            PCT/US2010/057952
     After vacuum drying for 18 h at 55-60 'C, received 2.38 g of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate (78 % recovery).
     1 % H 20 in Acetone Recrystallization of Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
 5           Formula (I) Hemitartrate (3.05 g) was dissolved in 125 mL of I % H 20
     in acetone at reflux. The solution was cooled to room temperature and stirred at
     room temperature for 2 h. The white precipitate was filtered and washed with
     10 mL of 1 % H 2 0 in acetone and then acetone (15 mL). After vacuum drying
     overnight at 55-60 'C, 2.35 g of Formula (I) Hemitartrate (77 % recovery) was
10   obtained.
     Example 2: Preparation Crystalline Formula (1) Hemitartrate
             Formula (I) Hemitartrate was crystallized by several methods. Batch 1 was
     prepared using ethyl acetate/acetone solvents and dried at room temperature. Batch
     3 was prepared using ethyl acetate/acetone solvents and recrystallized from ethyl
15   acetate. Batch 4 was recrystallized from acetone using Batch I material. Batch 5
     was recrystallized from isopropanol. Batch 7 was prepared using ethyl
     acetate/acetone solvent similar to Batch 1 but in a large scale, Batch 8 was prepared
     using acetone only with no further recrystallization. Batch 9 was prepared using
     acetone only with brief reflux, again no further recrystallization.
20   Table 1: Summary of polymorphism screening of Batches 1-9 of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate
     Batch     Processing Method                   DSC                  Micro-         TGA
       No.                            Melting Pont ('C) Enthalpy (J/g)  scope
        I     Acetone/ethyl acetate   162              -81.4           Crystal   99.91% at 100 -C
              precipitation*                                                     98.73% at 175 'C
        2     Acetone/ethyl acetate   164              -95.6           Crystal   N/A
              precipitation-dried at
              room temperature*
        3     Acetone/ethyl acetate   166              -97.8           Crystal   100.0% at 100 OC
              precipitation- dried at                                            99.98% at 153 -C
              55-60 "C
        4     Recrystallization       166              -107.2          Crystal   100.2% at  100 OC
              from acetone                                                       100.2% at  153 'C
        5     Recrystallization       166              -102.6          Crystal   100.0% at  100  C
              from isopropanol                                                   100.0% at  153 cC
        7     Acetone/ethyl acetate   166              -99.4           Crystal** 100.1% at  100 IC
              precipitation                                                      99.91% at  153 'C
        8     Acetone precipitation   165              -100.7          Crystal** 100.0% at  100 cC
                                                                                 100.0% at 153 OC
                                               - 28 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
        9      Acetone precipitation  165             -100.2       Crystal**
               with brief reflux
             *: containing some free base in the DSC thermogram.
             **:containing habits changed in these batches from rod, plate-shaped to
             needle, rod, and irregular shapes.
             Crystal forms of Formula (I) Hemitartrate were also prepared using slow
 5   evaporation, slow cooling, fast cooling and anti-solvent precipitation with a variety
     of solvents.
             Slow Evaporation Method. A weighed sample (usually 20 mg) was
     treated with aliquots of the test solvent. Aliquots were typically 100-200 IL.
     Between solvent additions, the mixture was shaken or sonicated. When the
10   solids dissolved, as judged by visual inspection, the solution was allowed to
     evaporate under ambient conditions in an open vial covered with aluminum foil
     perforated with pinholes. Solubilities were estimated from these experiments
     based on the total solvent added to obtain a clear solution.
     Table 2: Approximate solubility of Formula (I) Hemitartrate at room
15   temperature (20-25 "C).
                   Organic Solvent                     Approximate Solubility (mg/mL)
     Heptane                                       Not Available
     Hexane                                        Not Available
     Toluene                                       <5
     Dichloromethane                               100
     Ethanol                                       29
     Isopropyl alcohol                             <5
     Acetonitrile                                  <5
     Ethyl Acetate                                 <5
     Methanol                                      >200
     Acetone                                       <5
     Methyl t-butyl ether (TBME)                   <5
     p-Dioxane                                     <5
     Tetrahydrofuran (THF)                         <5
                                              - 29  -

WO 2011/066352                                                                PCT/US2010/057952
     Table 3: Summary of polymorphism using slow evaporation approach.
                     Solid form
                       generated
      Organic         from Slow                     DSC                  Micro
       Solvent      Evaporation        Melting Pont (C) Enthalpy (J/g)   scope           TGA
      Methanol     No                 N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
       Ethanol     Yes                 165              -95.0           Crystal**  100.0% at 100 0C
                                                                                   100.0% at 150 "C
              **: particles were plate and rod-shaped
 5            Slow/Fast Cooling Method. Formula (I) Hemitartrate was dissolved in a
     test solvent at 50-60 'C. The resulting solution was then allowed to cool to
     ambient temperature (slow cool). If no solids formed after a day, the vials were
     placed in a refrigerator. For fast cool experiments, the resulting solution was
     then allowed to cool in a refrigerator. The solids were collected by filtration an
10   air-dried.
     Table 4: Summary of polymorphism using slow cooling approach.
                      Solid form
                       generated
      Organic         from Slow                     DSC                  Micro
       Solvent          Cooling        Melting Pont ('C) Enthalpy (J/g)  scope           TGA
       Ethanol     Yes                 167              -106.2          Crystal**  100.1% at 100 0C
                                                                                   100.1% at 150 "C
     **:particles were plate and rod-shaped
     Table 5: Summary of polymorphism using fast cooling approach.
                     Solid form
                       generated
      Organic          from Fast                    DSC                  Micro
       Solvent          Cooling        Melting Pont ('C) Enthalpy (J/g)  scope           TGA
       Ethanol     Yes                 167              -106.2          Crystal**  100.0% at 100 OC
                                                                                   100.0% at 150 DC
15   **:particles were plate and rod-shaped
              Anti-Solvent Method. Formula (I) Hemitartrate was dissolved in a
     solvent. An anti-solvent was added to the solution. The solids that formed
     were collected by filtration an air-dried.
                                                   -30-

WO 2011/066352                                                                 PCT/US2010/057952
               Table 6: Summary of polymorphism screening using anti-solvent
     approach
                      Solid form
                       generated
                      from Anti
       Organic           solvent                     DSC                  Micro
       Solvent         Approach         Melting Pont (oC) Enthalpy (J/g)   scope          TGA
      Methanol/      Yes                167              -99.5           Crystal*   100.1% at 100 'C
         ethyl                                                                      100.1% at 150 C
        acetate
      Methanol/      Yes                167              -106.2          Crystal*   100.3% at 100 'C
       acetone                                                                      100.2% at 150 'C
      Methanol/      No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
     acetonitrile
      Methanol/      No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
       tohlene
      Methanol/      No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
         THF
      Methanol/      Yes                167              -102.0          Crystal*   100.2% at 100 'C
        TBME                                                                        100.1% at 150 0C
      Methanol/      No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
      p-dioxane
     Water/THF       No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
        Water/       No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
        TMBE
        Water/       No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
     isopropanol
        Water/       No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
     acetonitrile
        Water/       No                N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
       acetone
      Dicholoro- Yes                    165              -89.2           Crystal**  100.0% at 100 0C
       methane/                                                                     99.99% at 150 C
       heptane
      Dicholoro- Yes                    167              -97.8           Crystal*   100.2% at 100 OC
       methane/                                                                     100.1% at 150 OC
         ethyl
        acetate
      Dicholoro- Yes                    164              -89.8           Crystal*   99.95% at 100 OC
       methane/                                                                     99.86% at 150 0C
       toluene
      Dicholoro- Yes                    167              -98.6           Crystal**  100.0% at 100 "C
       methane/                                                                     99.91% at 150 OC
        TBME
      Dicholoro- Yes (little)          N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
     methane/ p
       dioxane
      Dicholoro- No                    N/A               N/A             N/A        N/A
       methane/
     isopropanol I
                 The particles were plate and rod-shaped.
               **: Individual particles had more than one bifrigence color.
5              ***: The particles were needle and rod-shaped.
                                                    - 31  -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     Example 3: Physical Properties of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
             Diffrential scanning calorimetry (DSC). DSC data was collected on a
     TA Q100 instrument utilizing nitrogen as the purge gas. Approximately 2-5 mg
     of sample was weighed accurately into an aluminum DSC pan. The pan was
 5   covered with a lid and perforated with a forceps. The sample cell was
     equilibrated at 30 'C and heated at a rate of 10 'C per minute to a final
     temperature of 220 'C.
             Hot stage microscopy. Hot stage microscopy was performed using a
     Linkam hot stage (model FTIR 600) mounted on a Leica DM LP microscope
10   equipped with a Sony DXC-970MD 3CCD camera for image collection. A 40x
     objective was used with polarized light to view samples. Each samples was
     placed between two cover slips. Each sample was visually observed as the
     stage was heated. Images were captured using Links version 2.27 (Linkam).
     The hot stage was calibrated using USP melting point standards.
15           The endothermic transition observed in the DSC profile was confirmed
     to be a melting transition at a temperature between 160-163'C by hot stage
     microscopy.
     Example 4: X-ray Powder Diffraction of Formula (1) Hemitartrate
         All the X-ray Powder Diffraction (XRPD) analyses were done at SSCI, Inc.
20   (West Lafayette, IN 47906). XPRD analyses were performed using a Shimadzu
     XRD-6000 X-ray powder diffractometer using Cu K a radiation. The instrument is
     equipped with a fine focus X-ray tube. The tube voltage and amperage were set to
     40 kV and 40 mA, respectively. The divergence and scattering slits were set at 10
     and the receiving slit was set at 0.15 mm. Diffracted radiation was detected by a
25   Nal scintillation detector. The theta-two theta continuous scan at 3/min (0.4
     sec/0.020 step) from 2.5 to 40 '20 was used. A silicon standard was analyzed to
     check the instrument alignment. Data were collected and analyzed using XRD-6000
     v 4. L.
30   Example 5: Comparison of Formula (I) Hemitartrate to Formula (I) Free Base
             The solid characterization of the free base and the hemitartrate salt are
     summarized in Table 7. Formula I Hemitartrate has superior properties as
     compared to Formula I free base. For example, Formula I Hemitartrate has a
                                              - 32 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     higher melting point (> 150 C), higher packing energy (greater endothermic
     enthalpy), lower variance in particle size, higher aqueous solubility (over 300
     mg/mL in water), suitable crystal shape, and higher bulk density as compared
     to Formula I Free Base.
 5   Table 7: Summary of solid state and physical and chemical properties of
     Formula (I) Free Base and Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
       Physical Characteristics        Formula (I) Free              Formula (I)
                                               Base                 Hemitartrate
     Melting Point ('C)                        86-88                      163
     Endothermic enthalpy (J/g)                75-82                    96-106
     Particle size (pm)                     <10 to 100               ~3 (Average)
     Aqueous solubility                         0.04                     >216
     (mg/mL)
     Crystalline                                Yes                       Yes
     Crystal Shape                            Needle               Plate, rod, some
                                                                       irregular
     Hygroscopicity (40'C/75   o               None                      None
     RH)
     Bulk Density                               ~0.2                    0.4-0.5
     Example 6: In Vitro Activity and Specificity
             Activity of Formula (I) Hemitartrateat inhibitingglycosphingolipid
10   synthesis in vitro. Two assays were used to quantify the inhibitory activity of
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate for glucosylceramide synthase. Since
     glucosylceramide is the first and rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of
     glycosphingolipids, a flow cytometry assay that measured cell surface levels of
     GM 1 and GM3 was used to indirectly assess the activity of the inhibitor in
15   intact cells. Incubating K562 or Bl6/F1O cells for 72 h with increasing amounts
     of Formula (I) Hemitartrate (0.6-1000 nM) resulted in a dose-dependent
     reduction of cell surface levels of both GM1 and GM3. The mean IC5 o value for
     inhibiting the cell surface presentation of GMI in K562 cells was 24 nM (range
     14-34 nM) (Table 8) and that for GM3 in B16/F10 cells was 29 nM (range 12
20   48 nM). No overt cellular toxicity was noted in either cell line even when tested
     at the highest dose.
             An alternative assay for activity measured inhibition of
     glucosylceramide synthase in human cell derived microsomes. In this assay,
     microsomes were prepared from human melanoma A375 cells by sonication
                                             - 33  -

WO 2011/066352                                                           PCT/US2010/057952
     and centrifugation. The microsomal preparation was incubated with a
     fluorescent ceramide substrate (NBD-C6-ceramide), UDP-glucose, and
     increasing amounts of Formula (I) Hemitartrate (0-1000 nM) for one hour at
     room temperature. Following the incubation, fluorescently labeled
 5   glucosylceramide and unreacted ceramide were separated and quantitated by
     reverse-phase HPLC and fluorescence detection. In this assay the IC5 value for
     inhibiting glucosylceramide synthesis ranged from 20 to 40 nM. This value was
     similar to those obtained above for GM1 and GM3 and suggests that
     measurements of these cell surface glycolipids are good surrogates of the
10   activity of Formula (I) Hemitartrate for glucosylceramide synthase.
              Specificity of substrate synthesis inhibitionby Formula (I) Hemitartrate.
     The specificity of Formula (I) Hemitartrate was evaluated in a series of in vitro cell
     based and cell-free assays. The intestinal glycosidase enzymes were assayed in rat
     tissue homogenates (see U. Andersson, et al., Biochem. Pharm. 59 (2000)
15   821-829, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference),
     and the glycogen debranching enzyme was assayed in a cell free assay as
     described (see U. Andersson, et al., Biochem. Pharm. 67 (2004) 697-705, the
     entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). No detectable
     inhibition of intestinal glycosidases (lactase, maltase, sucrase), a-glucosidase I and
20   II, and the cytosolic debranching enzyme (a-1,6-glucosidase), was found at
     concentrations up to 2500 jiM (Table 8).
             Non-lysosomal glucosylceramidase and lysosomal glucocerebrosidase
     were assayed in intact human cells using C6-NBD-glucosylceramide as
     substrate (see H.S. Overkleeft, el al. J. Biol. Chem. 273 (1998) 26522-26527,
25   the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference).
     Conduritol   P epoxide     (a specific inhibitor of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase)
     was used to differentiate lysosomal versus the non-lysosomal activity.
     Glucocerebrosidase activity was also measured by fluorescence-activated cell
     sorting (FACS). K562 cells were cultured with increasing amounts of
30   Formula (I) Hemitartrate in the presence of 1 jiM 5-(pentafluorobenzoylamino)
     fluorescein di-p-D-glucopyranoside (PFB-FDGlu, Molecular
     Probes/Invitrogen. Carlsbad, CA) for 30-60 min. Cells were immediately
     chilled on ice and the fluorescence quantitated is above. The non-lysosomal
                                                - 34 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     glucosylceramidase was weakly inhibited with an IC5 of 1600 jiM. There was no
     inhibition of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase, the enzyme that is deficient in Gaucher
     disease, up to the highest concentration of 2500 ptM (Table 8). Hence, a differential
     of approximately 40,000 in the concentration was required to inhibit
 5   glucosylceramide synthase compared to any of the other enzymes tested.
     Table 8: Biochemical activities Formula (1) Hemitartrate in vitro
     Substrate inhibition potency (in vitro ICso):               -0.024 ptM
     Enzyme specificities, IC 50 :
             a-Glucosidase I and II:                             >2500 jiM
             Lysosomal glucocerebrosidase (GBA1):                >2500 jiM jIM
             Non-lysosomal glucosylceramidase                    1600 pM
     (GBA2):
             Glycogen debranching enzyme:                        >2500 RM
     Enzyme specificities, K:
             Sucrase inhibition:                                 No inhib. to 10 p.M
             Maltase inhibition:                                 No inhib. to 10 jiM
10   Example 7: Improved management of Lysosomal Glucosylceramide levels in a
     Mouse Model
     A. Fabry Disease.
     To determine if the combined use of both enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and
15   substrate reduction therapy (SRT) may maintain enzyme debulking or provide
     additional benefits, the relative efficacies of separate and combined therapies in a
     murine model of Fabry disease (Fabry-Rag) were compared. The parental Fabry
     mice is described in Wang, AM et aL. Am. J. Hum. Genet. 59: A208 (1996). The
     Fabry-Rag is crossed with a RAG-I mouse and does not develop mature
20   lymphocytes or T-cells (immune-compromised).
                                                - 35 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
             Animal studies.
     For the monotherapy studies, Fabry mice were put on study at 1 month old
     (prevention model). Treatment groups received Formula (I) Hemitartrate
 5   (Genzyme Corp., Cambridge, MA) as a component of the pellet food diet. The
     drug was formulated at 0.15% (w/w) in standard 5053 mouse chow (TestDiet,
     Richmond, IN) and provided ad libitum. This formulation provided 300 mg/kg
     of Formula (I) Hemitartrate per day in a 25 g mouse.
     For the combination therapy studies, Fabry-Rag mice were put on study at 3
10   months old (treatment model). Mice in group A received intravenous injections
     of recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A (Genzyme Corp.) at a dose of
     1mg/kg every 2 months (i.e. 3, 5, 7 and 9 months old). Group B received the
     same intravenous enzyme doses plus it received Formula (1) Hemitartrate
     (Genzyme Corp., Cambridge, MA) as a component of the pellet food diet. The
15   drug was formulated at 0.15% (w/w) in standard 5053 mouse chow (TestDiet,
     Richmond, IN) and provided ad libitum. This formulation provided 300 mg/kg
     of Formula (I) Hemitartrate per day in a 25 g mouse. Group C received enzyme
     injections every 4 months (i.e. 3 and 7 months old) and was on the same drug
     in-food diet as group B. Group D received only the drug-in-food diet (same as
20   groups B and C). Group E was untreated Fabry-Rag mice and group F were
     wild-type controls. See FIG 10.
             Quantitationof tissue globotriaosylceramide(GL-3, Gb3) levels
     Quantitation of GL-3 was by Tandem Mass Spectrometry essentially as for GL-1.
             Hot plate Assay was performed as describedpreviously (Ziegler, RJ et
25   al. Molec. Other. 15(3), 492-500 (2007).
     Results
     Monotherapy ofFabryMice with Formula () Hemitartrate
     SRT was evaluated in a mouse model of Fabry disease, which is caused by a
     deficiency of a-galactosidase A activity. Therapy with Formula (I) Hemitartrate
30   started with one month-old Fabry mice and continued until the mice reached one
     year of age. The animals were dosed with 300 mg/kg Formula (I) Hemitartrate in
                                             - 36 -

WO 2011/066352                                                            PCT/US2010/057952
     their diet each day. Behavioral tests (i.e., hot-plate assay) and biochemical tests
     (i.e., urinalysis and GL-3 level analysis in tissues/blood/urine) of the mice were
     performed bimonthly.
     As shown in FIGURE 7, administration of Formula (1) Hemitartrate to Fabry-Rag
 5   mice over a period of 11 months abated the rate of lysosomal accumulation of
     globotriaoslyceramide (GL-3) in the somatic organs (liver, kidney, heart and spleen)
     by approximately 50%. This translated to a delay in disease progression as
     evidenced by a later presentation of insensitivity to an aversive heat stimulus (see
     FIGURE 8) and a prevention of deterioration of urinalysis factors, e.g., urine
10   volume, creatinine and sodium levels (see FIGURE 9). Hence, Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate-mediated inhibition of glucosylceramide synthase that catalyzes the
     first step in the synthesis of glycosphingolipids, is not only advantageous in animal
     models of Gaucher disease but also of Fabry disease, and could also have positive
     effects in other glycosphingolipidoses.
15
     ('mnbination Therapy ofFabri Alice with a-galactosidaseA and Formula (J)
    Hemitartrate
     The efficacy of ERT alone and in combination with SRT using Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate was evaluated in five populations of Fabry-Rag mice (n=::1 2'group).
20   Beginning at three-months of age, the mice were subjected to a schedule of
     behavioral tests (i.e. hot-plate assay) and biochemical tests (i.e., GL-3 level analysis
     in tissues/blood/urine), as shown in FIGURE 10. In mice subjected to ERT, I
     mg/kg doses of a-galactosidase A were administered on the schedule as shown in
     FIGURE 10. In mice subjected to SRT, 300 mg/kg doses of Formula (I)
25   Hemitartrate were administered daily in the mouse diet.
     As shown in FIGURE 11, ERT reduces blood GL-3 levels in Fabry-Rag mice,
     whereas SRT does not. As shown in FIGURE 12, combination ERT/SRT is most
     effective at reducing GL-3 levels in Fabry-Rag mice liver and kidney.
     As shown in FIGURE 13, SRT reduces urine GL-3 levels in Fabry-Rag mice,
30   whereas ERT does not. As shown in FIGURE 14, SRT but not ERT delays onset of
     heat-insensitivity in Fabry-Rag mice.
               In summary, Fabry-Rag mice treated with a combination Fabrazyme and
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate exhibited improvements in disease markers over ERT
                                               - 37 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     or SRT alone in a treatment model in the following ways: significantly reduced
     liver and kidney GL-3 accumulation with combination therapy; improved urine
     GL-3 in SRT groups; improved blood GL-3 in ERT groups; and delayed
     peripheral neuropathy in SRT groups.
             B. Gaucher disease. To determine if the sequential use of both enzyme
     replacement therapy (ERT) and substrate reduction therapy (SRT) may provide
     additional benefits, the relative efficacies of separate and sequential therapies
     in a murine model of Gaucher disease (D409V/null) were compared.
10   Methods
             Animal studies. Procedures involving animals were reviewed and
     approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) at
     Genzyme Corporation following the guidelines issued by the Association for
     Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC). The
15   Gaucher mouse (D409V/null) is a model of type 1 Gaucher disease exhibiting
     accumulation of glucosylceramide in liver, spleen and lungs but lacks bone or
     brain pathology (see Y-H. Xu, et al., Am. J. Pathol. 163, 2003, 2093-2101, the
     entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference). Animals of
     both sexes were placed on study at 3 months of age as previous experiments
20   had indicated that there was no difference in response between males and
     females to recombinant glucocerebrosidase or Formula (I) Hemitartrate. The
     study had 6 groups of mice with group A being sacrificed after 2 weeks to
     provide baseline levels of tissue glucosylceramide. Groups B, C, and D all
     received recombinant human glucocerebrosidase (Genzyme Corp., Cambridge,
25   MA) (10mg/kg) intravenously via a tail-vein (100 pL) every 2 days for a total
     of 8 injections. Group B was sacrificed at the end of this regimen (at the same
     time as group A) to provide enzyme-reduced levels of tissue glucosylceramide.
     Groups D and E were both fed Formula (I) Hemitartrate (Genzyme Corp.,
     Cambridge, MA) as a component of the pellet food diet. The drug was
30   formulated at 0.075% (w/w) in standard 5053 mouse chow (TestDiet,
     Richmond, IN) and provided ad libitum. This formulation provided 150 mg/kg
     of Formula (1) Hemitartrate per day in a 25 g mouse. Group F received no
     treatment and was sacrificed along with groups C, D and E 12 weeks after the
                                             - 38 -

WO 2011/066352                                                        PCT/US2010/057952
     start of the study. Food consumption and mouse weights were monitored three
     times per week to determine drug intake and the potential impact of the drug on
     overall health. Animals were killed by carbon dioxide inhalation and their
     tissues harvested immediately. Half of each tissue was snap frozen on dry ice
 5   and stored at -80'C until ready for further processing. The other half was
     processed for histological analysis.
            Quantitationof tissue glucosylceranide levels Glucosylceramide levels were
     quantified by mass spectrometry as described previously (see K. McEachern, ei al.,
    J. Gene. Med. 8 (2006) 719-729; T. Doering, J. Biol. Chem. 274 (1999) 11038
10   11045, the entire teachings of both are incorporated herein by reference). A known
     mass of tissue was homogenized in 2:1 (v/v) chloroform:methanol and incubated at
     37*C for 15 min. Samples were centrifuged and the supernatants were extracted
     with 0.2 volumes of water overnight at 4'C. The samples were centrifuged, the
     aqueous phase was discarded, and the organic phase was dried down to a film under
15   nitrogen. For electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI/MS) analysis, tissue
     samples were reconstituted to the equivalent of 50 ng original tissue weight in I ml
     chloroform:methanol (2:1, v/v) and vortexed for 5 min. Aliquots (40 psL) of each
     sample were delivered to Waters total recovery vials and 50 tL of a 10 ig/mL d3
     C16-GL-1 internal standard (Matreya, Inc., Pleasant Gap, PA) was added. Samples
20   were dried under nitrogen and reconstituted with 200 pL of 1:4 (v/v)
     DMSO:methanol. ESI/MS analysis of glucosylceramides of different carbon chain
     lengths was performed on a Waters alliance HPLC (Separation Module 2695)
     coupled to a Micromass Quattro Micro system equipped with an electrospray ion
     source. Lipid extract samples (20 pL) were injected onto a C8 column (4 mL X 3
25   mm i.d; Phenomenex, Torrance, CA) at 45'C and eluted with a gradient of 50 to
     100% acetonitrile (2mM ammonium acetate, 0.1% formic acid) at 0.5 mL/min. The
     first 0.5 min was held at 50% organic and then quickly switched to 100% for the
     final 3.5 min. The source temperature was held constant at 150'C and nitrogen was
     used as the desolvation gas at a flow rate of 670 L/h. The capillary voltage was
30   maintained at 3.80 KV with a cone voltage of 23 V, while the dwell time for each
     ion species was 100 ms. Spectra were acquired by the MRM mode to monitor eight
     dominant isoforms (C16:0, C18:0, C20:0, C22:1, C22:0, C22:1-OH, C24:1, and
               Quantitation of glucosylceramide was based on the sum of these eight
                                              - 39 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     isoforms relative to the internal standard, with a calibration curve ranging from 0.1
     to 10 pLg/mL.
             Histology. For histological analysis, tissues were fixed in zinc formalin
     (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA) at room temperature for 24 h,
 5   then stored in PBS at 4'C until ready for further processing. All samples were
     dehydrated in ethanol, cleared in xylenes, infiltrated and embedded in
     Surgipath R paraffin (Surgipath, Richmond, IL). Five micron sections were cut
     using a rotary microtome and dried in a 60'C oven prior to staining. Sections
     were deparaffinized in Hemo-De (Scientific Safety Solvents, Keller, TX) and
10   rehydrated in descending concentrations of ethanol followed by a PBS wash.
     The sections were stained with Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) and labeled
     using a rat anti-mouse CD68 monoclonal antibody (Serotec, Raleigh, NC) to
     identify macrophages. After washing for 5 min in PBS, the slides were
     dehydrated in ethanol and cleared in Hemo-De prior to mounting with
15   SHUR/MountTM coverglass mounting medium (TBS, Durham, NC). The
     percent area of CD68 irmrnunopositivity in the liver was quantified using
     MetaMorph (MDS Analytical Technologies, Toronto, Canada) analysis of ten
     400X images per tissue section. A board certified veterinary pathologist
     blinded to group designation examined all the sections.
20   Results
            Dosing regimen of glucocerebrosidasefor debulking accwnulated GLI in the
     liver, spleen and lung oj3 month-old Gaucher nice. To investigate the relative
     merits of combination and monotherapy with either enzyme or substrate reduction
     therapy, the enzyme regimen that maximally depleted GL1 levels in the visceral
25   organs of Gaucher mice was first determined. Three month-old Gaucher mice
     (D409V/null) were intravenously administered 2, 4 or 8 doses of 10 mg/kg
     recombinant human glucocerebrosidase. The mice that were treated with 2 or 4
     doses of the enzyme received drug infusions every 3 days while those that were
     treated with 8 doses received the enzyme every 2 days. The use of a shorter time
30   interval between infusions in animals that received 8 treatments was designed to
     minimize the potential impact of any immune response to the administered human
     enzyme. The animals were killed 7 days following the last enzyme infusion and the
                                               - 40 -

WO 2011/066352                                                         PCT/US2010/057952
     amount of GL I remaining in their livers, spleens, and lungs were measured.
              Treatment with 2 doses of glucocerebrosidase reduced the levels of GLI in
     the liver by 50%. Increasing the number of enzyme infusions to 4 or 8, as expected,
     reduced the liver GLI levels to a greater extent (by approximately 75%). The less
 5   than complete lowering of GL I levels, even with 8 doses, is consistent with the
     experience in Gaucher subjects showing that hepatosplenomegaly is reduced only
     after an extended period of treatment (see G.A. Grabowski, et al., Ann. Int. Med.
     122 (1995) 33-39, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by
     reference). The substrate levels in the spleens of Gaucher mice were more
10   refractory to enzyme treatment. Administration of 2 doses of glucocerebrosidase did
     not significantly alter GL 1 levels from those noted in untreated controls. Increasing
     the number of enzyme infusions to 4 or 8 reduced the splenic GLI levels by about
     50%. In the lung, a reduction to approximately 60% of untreated control was
     observed after 8 doses. The slightly lower extent of substrate reduction in the lung
15   was probably due to poorer accessibility of the infused enzyme to the lipid-laden
     alveolar macrophages. The observation of greater GLl clearance in the liver when
     compared with the spleen and lung likely reflects the biodistribution of the enzyme
     following systemic infusion (see S.M. Van Patten, et al. Glycobiology 17 (2007)
     467-478, the entire teachings of which are incorporated by reference). Based on
20   these results, the treatment regimen consisting of 8 consecutive doses of 10 mg/kg
     glucocerebrosidase administered at 2 days intervals was used for the subsequent
     studies.
            Relative abilities of enzyme and substrate reduction therapy to lower GLI
     levels in the liver of Gauchermice. Cohorts of 3-month-old Gaucher mice were
25   treated with either recombinant glucocerebrosidase or Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     separately or sequentially. Mice in groups B, C and D were given 8 doses of
     enzyme as described above (over a period of 2 weeks) to clear accumulated GLI.
     Different groups were then fed either regular chow or chow containing Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate (150 mg/kg/day) for an additional 10 weeks with group F receiving no
30   treatment and serving as the naive control. Irrespective of the chow formulation, the
     mice ate comparable amounts of food and there were no discernible differences in
     weight gain. Approximately 80% of the stored GLI levels were cleared from the
             allowing 2 weeks of enzyme therapy alone. When these animals were allowed
                                               - 41 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     to progress without further treatment for 10 weeks, their liver GLI levels increased
     indicating that re-accumulation of the substrate had occurred during the intervening
     period (Figure 2, column C). These levels were not significantly different from those
     of untreated controls (Figure 2, column F). However, if the mice were treated with
 5   enzyme and then Formula (I) Hemitartrate in their food over a 10 week period, their
     liver GLI levels were significantly lower than the untreated controls (Figure 2,
     column D & F). This result suggests that the additional treatment with Formula (1)
     Hemitartrate had slowed the re-accumulation of the substrate. Interestingly,
     Gaucher mice treated with Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone during the entire study
10   period (12 weeks) also showed lower GL-1 levels (Figure 2, column E) when
     compared to untreated, age-matched controls (Figure 2, column F) though the
     difference was not significant. The ability of SRT alone to reduce GLI levels in this
     animal model is consistent with our previous report (see K.A. McEachern, et al.,
     Mol. Genet. Metab. 91 (2007) 259-267, the entire teachings of which are
15   incorporated herein by reference) and likely reflects the fact that the Gaucher mice
     (D409V/null) retain residual enzymatic activity (see Y-H. Xu, et al., Am. J. Pathol.
     163, 2003, 2093-2101, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by
     reference).
            Relative abilities of enzyme and substrate reduction therapy to lower GLI
20   levels in the spleen of Gaucher mice. Treating 3 month-old Gaucher mice with
     recombinant glucocerebrosidase alone for 2 weeks reduced splenic GL] levels by
     approximately 60% (Figure 3, column B). When these animals were allowed to age
     for an additional 10 weeks without further intervention, the substrate levels returned
     to those observed at the start of the study (Figure 3, column C) and were not
25   significantly different from the untreated control (Figure 3, column F). This
     suggests that the rate of re-accumulation of GLI in the spleen was higher than in the
     liver. This supposition was also supported by the observation of higher basal levels
     of the substrate in the spleen (-1500 mg/g tissue; Figure 2, column A) than in the
     liver (-500 mg/g tissue; Figure 3, column A). Animals that had been treated with
30   enzyme and then Formula (I) Hemitartrate for the next 10 weeks showed the greatest
     reduction in splenic GL1 levels (Figure 3, column D) and these were significantly
     lower than those in the untreated control spleens (Figure 3, column F). This
           " d that the deployment of SRT not only delayed the re-accumulation of
                                               - 42 -

WO 2011/066352                                                            PCT/US2010/057952
     substrate but also acted to further reduce the burden of storage in this organ. It
     would appear that at least in this instance, the net effect of the residual endogenous
     enzyme and substrate reduction led to a further decline in overall substrate levels.
     The observation of lower splenic GLl levels in the mice treated with Formula (I)
 5   Hemitartrate alone for 12 weeks (Figure 3, column E) than in untreated controls
     (Figure 3, column F) is consistent with this notion, though the difference was not
     significant. Hence, in mild Gaucher type 1 patients with high residual enzyme
     activity, treatment with ERT followed by SRT could potentially accelerate the rate
     and perhaps even the extent of clearance of the offending substrate.
10         Relative abilities of enzyme and substrate reduction therapy to lower GLl
     levels in the lung of Gaucher mice. As noted earlier, pulmonary GL I levels were
     least effectively cleared by intravenous administration of recombinant
     glucocerebrosidase. Treatment of 3 mouth-old Gaucher mice with enzyme for 2
     weeks resulted in only a 30% reduction in substrate levels in the lung (Figure 4,
15   column B). The cohort of animals fed normal chow for the next ensuing 10 weeks
     showed, as expected, re-accumulation of GL I and were not significantly different
     from the untreated levels (Figure 4, column C & F). In contrast, animals fed chow
     containing Fomula (1) Hemitartrate over the same intervening period showed a
     reduction in substrate levels to below those administered enzyme alone (Figure 4,
20   colunm D) and were significantly lower than those in the untreated controls (Figure
     4, column F). Again, this suggests that in the lung, as in the spleen, the net effect of
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate (in the presence of residual endogenous enzyme activity)
     not only retarded the re-accumulation of GLI but also acted to further reduce them
     to below the starting levels. As with the other visceral organs, treatment by Formula
25   (I) Hemitartrate alone was effective in lowering pulmonary GLI levels (Figure 4,
     column E) when compared to untreated controls (Figure 4, column F).
             Histopathologicalanalysisof the liver of Gaucher mice after enzyme and
     substratereduction treatment. To visualize the effects of the different therapeutic
     regimens in the liver, tissue sections were stained for CD68, a macrophage marker.
30   Analysis of liver sections from untreated 3 month-old Gaucher mice showed the
     presence of large numbers of lipid-engorged, CD68-positive Gaucher cells that
     remained largely unchanged when analyzed 12 weeks later. Consistent with the
                                               - 43 -

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     biochemical data above, livers of animals administered recombinant
     glucocerebrosidase over a period of 2 weeks showed substantial clearance of the
     lipid in these abnormal macrophages. If these animals were allowed to age an
     additional 10 weeks without further treatment, there was evidence of re
 5   accumulation of GL 1 as indicated by the re-emergence of Gaucher cells. However,
     this increase in Gaucher cells was negated if the mice were given substrate reduction
     therapy with Formula (I) Hemitartrate over the same intervening period. As noted
     earlier, Gaucher mice that received Formula (I) Hemitartrate alone also showed
     reduced accumulation of the substrate, although not to the same degree as those that
10   received a combination of ERT and SRT. The extent of CD68-positive staining on
     the various sections was also quantified using MetaMorph software (Figure 18).
     The degree of staining in these sections mirrored the amounts of liver GL levels
     determined biochemically (Figure 15) further supporting the suggestions on the
     relative merits of the different treatment regimens.
15   Example 8: Efficacy of Formula (I) Hemitartrate in a Mouse Model of Gaucher
     Disease
              Animal studies. Procedures involving animals were reviewed and
     approved by an Institutional animal care and use committee (IACUC) following
     Association for assessment and accreditation of laboratory animal care
20   (AAALAC),
     State and Federal guidelines. The Gaucher gbaD4 09 ""ll mice (See Y.-H. Xu. el
     al., Am. J. Pathol. 163 (2003) 2093-2101, the entire teachings of which are
     incorporated herein by reference) were allowed to mature according to study
     requirements. No difference in phenotype or response to Formula (I)
25   Hemitartrate has been found between males and females, so both sexes were
     used in the studies. Formula (I) Hemitartrate delivery was by a single daily
     oral gavage at a volume of 10 mL/kg. Animals were acclimated to oral
     gavaging with a similar volume of water for one week prior to initiation of
     treatment. Formula (I) Hemitartrate was dissolved in Water For Injection
30   (WFI; VWR, West Chester, PA) and administered in a dose escalation from 75
     mg/kg/day to 150 mg/kg/day over the course of nine days, with three days at
     each dose and increments of 25 mg/kg/day. Mice were weighed three times per
                  -o
               monitor   the potential impact of the drug on their overall health.
                                               - 44 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     Animals were killed by carbon dioxide inhalation and their tissues harvested
     immediately. Half of each tissue was snapped frozen on dry ice and stored at
     80 'C until ready for further processing. The other half was collected for
     histological analysis.
 5           Quantitationof tissue glucosylceranide levels by high performance thin
     layer chromatography. High performance thin layer chromatography (HP
     TLC) analysis were as described (A. Abe, et al., J. Clin. Inv. 105 (2000) 1563
     1571; H. Zhao, et al. Diabetes 56 (2007) 1341-1349; and S.P.F. Miller, et al. J.
     Lab. Clin. Med. 127 (1996) 353-358, the entire teachings of each are
10   incorporated herein by reference). Briefly, a total lipid fraction was obtained
     by homogenizing tissue in cold PBS, extracting with 2:1 (v/v)
     chloroform: methanol. and sonicating in a water bath sonicator. Samples were
     centrifuged to separate the phases and the supernatant was recovered. The
     pellets were re-sonicated in chloroform :methanol: saline, centrifuged and the
15   resulting second supernatant was collected and combined with the first. A 1:1
     (v/v) chloroform:saline mixture was aided to the combined supernatants,
     vortexed, and centrifuged. After discarding the upper aqueous layer,
     methanol:saline was added, vortexed and re-centrifuged. The organic phase
     was taken and dried under nitrogen, dissolved in 2:1 (v/v) chloroform:rnethanol
20   at I mL per 0.1 g original tissue weight and stored at -20 'C.
             A portion of the lipid extract was used to measure total phosphate, (See
     B.N. Ames, Methods Enzymol. 8 (1966) 115-118, the entire teachings of which
     are incorporated herein by reference), i.e., the phospholipid content to use as an
     internal standard. The remainder underwent alkaline methanolysis to remove
25   phospholipids that migrate with glucosylceramide on the HP-TLC plate.
     Aliquots of the extracts containing equivalent amounts of the total phosphate
     were spotted onto a HP-TLC plate along with known glucosylceramide
     standards (Matreya inc. Pleasant Gap, PA). The lipids were resolved and
     visualized with 3% cupric acetate monohydrate (w/v). 15% phosphoric acid
30   (v/v) followed by baking for 10 min at 150 'C. The lipid bands were scanned
     on a densitometer (GS-700, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) and analyzed by Quantity
     One software (Bio-Rad).
                                             - 45 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
             Quantitationof tissue glucosylceramidelevels by mass spectrom etty.
     Glucosylceramide was quantified by mass spectrometry as described. (See K.
     McEachern, et al. J. Gene Med. 8 (2006) 719-729; T. Doering, et al., J. Biol.
     Chem. 274 (1999) 11038-11045, the entire teachings of each are incorporated
 5   herein by reference). Tissue was homogenized in 2:1 (v/v)
     chloroform:methanol and incubated at 37 'C. Samples were centrifuged and the
     supernatants were extracted with 0.2 volumes of water overnight. The samples
     were centrifuged again, the aqueous phase was discarded, and the organic phase
     dried down to a film under nitrogen.
10           For electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI/MS) analysis, tissue
     samples were reconstituted to the equivalent of. 50 ng original tissue weight in
     I mL chloroform/methanol (2:1, v/v) and vortexed for 5 min. Aliquots of each
     sample (40 pL) were delivered to Waters total recovery vials and 50 tL a 10
     ptg/mL d3-C16-GL-1 internal standard ( Matreya, Inc., Pleasant Gap, PA) was
15   added. Samples were dried under nitrogen and reconstituted with 200 pL of 1:4
     DMSO:methanol. ESI/MS analysis of glucosylceramides of different carbon
     chain lengths was performed on a Waters alliance HPLC (Separation Module
     2695) coupled to a Micromass Quattro Micro system equipped with an
     electrospray ion source. Twenty microliter lipid extract samples were injected
20   on a C8 column (4 ml x 3 mm i.d; Phenomenex, Torrance, CA) at 45 'C and
     eluted with a gradient of 50-100% acetonitrile (2 mM ammonium acetate, 0.1%
     formic acid) at 0.5 mL/min. The first 0.5 min are held at 50% organic and then
     quickly switched to 100% for the final 3.5 min. The source temperature was
     held constant at 150 'C and nitrogen was used as the desolvation gas at a flow
25   rate of 670 L/h. The capillary voltage was maintained at 3.80 KV with a cone
     voltage of 23 V, while the dwell time for each ion species was 100 ms. Spectra
     were acquired by the MRM mode to monitor eight dominant isoforms (C 16:0,
     C18:0, C20:0, C22:1. C22:0. C22:1-OH, C24:1, and C24:0). Quantitation of
     glucosylceramide is based on the sum of these eight isoforms to the internal
30   standard, with a calibration curve range from 0.1 to 10 .tg/mL.
             Histology. For histological analysis, tissues were fixed in zinc formalin
     (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA) at room temperature for 24 h,
     then stored in PBS at 4 'C until ready for further processing. All samples were
                                           - 46 -

WO 2011/066352                                                    PCT/US2010/057952
     dehydrated in ascending concentrations of alcohol, cleared in xylenes and
     infiltrated and embedded in Surgipath R paraffin (Surgipath, Richmond, IL).
     Five micron sections were cut using a rotary microtome and dried in a 60 'C
     oven prior to staining. Sections were deparaffinized in xylenes, and rehydrated
 5   in descending concentrations of alcohol followed by a water wash. After a 1
     min rinse in 3% acetic acid, slides were stained for 40 min in 1% Alcian Blue
     8GX (Electron Microscopy Sciences) in 3% acetic acid pH 2.0. After rinsing in
     water and oxidizing in 1%periodic acid for 1 min. slides were stained with
     Schiff's reagent (Surgipath) for 12 min. After washing for 5 min in hot water,
10   the slides were dehydrated in alcohol and cleared in xylenes prior to mounting
     with SHUR/Mount         coverglass mounting medium (TBS, Durham, NC).
     Gaucher cells identified morphologically in the liver were quantified using a
     manual cell count per 10 high power fields (HPFs, 400x).
     Results
15            EQect of administeringof Formula (I) Hemitartrateto D409V/null inice.
     The effect of administering Formula (I) Hemitartrate to D409V/null mice was
     assessed. Approximately 7-month-old mice were administered 150 mg/kg/day
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate (a dose shown in preliminary studies to be effective at
     inhibiting glucosylceramide synthase) by oral gavage for 10 weeks. This
20   treatment had no notable effects on the well-being or feeding habits of the
     mice. Measurements of their body weight throughout the study showed no
     significant deviation from those of untreated mice suggesting that Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate was well tolerated at a dose shown to be effective at inhibiting the
     synthase.
25            Efficacy of Formula () Hemitartrateat treatingyoung, pre-symptom atic
     Gaucher,. mice. Formula (I) Hemitartrate was evaluated for abatement of the
     lysosomal accumulation of glucosylceramide and the appearance of Gaucher
     cells in young (10-week old) D409V/null mouse. These young Gaucher mice
     exhibit low levels of GL-1 in the affected tissues. Ten-week-old animals were
30   administered either 75 or 150 mg/kg/day of Formula (I) Hemitartrate by oral
     gavage for 10 weeks. Measurement of glucosylceramide levels showed a dose
     dependent reduction when compared to age-matched vehicle-treated controls.
     In the cohort that had been treated with 150 mg/kg/day, glucosylceramide
                                            - 47 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     levels were 60, 40 and 75% of those in the controls, in the liver, lung and
     spleen, respectively (FIG. 6). The statistically significantly lower levels of
     glucosylceramide observed in the liver and lung of treated D409V/null mice
     indicated that Formula (I) Hemitartrate was effective at reducing the
 5   accumulation of this glycosphingolipid in these tissues.
             Histopathological evaluation of the livers of untreated D409V/null mice
     at the end of the study (20 weeks of age) showed the presence of Gaucher cells
     throughout the liver. Mice treated with 150 mg/kg/day of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate for 10 weeks showed only the occasional presence of Gaucher
10   cells that were also invariably smaller in size. Quantitation of these cells in a
     number of different sections confirmed that the frequency of Gaucher cells
     were significantly lower in the Formula (1) Hemitartrate-treated mice.
     Together, these biochemical and histological findings suggested that daily oral
     administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate to pre-symptomatic Gaucher mice
15   was effective at decreasing the accumulation of glucosylceramide in the
     affected tissues and the consequent formation of Gaucher cells in the liver.
             Efficacy of Formula (I) Hemitartratein treating older Gaucher mice
     with pre-existingpathology. The efficacy of Formula (I) Hemitartrate at
     arresting or reversing disease progression in older, symptomatic Gaucher mice
20   was also evaluated. Seven-month old D409V/null mice were administered 150
     mg/kg/day Formula (I) Hemitartrate by oral gavage for 10 weeks. Analyses of
     glucosylceramide levels in the liver, lung and spleen of treated mice at 5 and 10
     weeks post-treatment showed they had not increased beyond those observed at
     the start of the study. Alter 10 weeks of treatment, glucosylceramide levels
25   were determined to be 60% lower in liver, 50% lower in lung and 40% lower in
     spleen than in vehicle-treated mice. These results showed that Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate was effective at inhibiting the further accumulation of
     glucosylceramide in mice with an existing burden of storage pathology.
             Histopathological analysis of tissue sections showed a reduced number
30   of Gaucher cells in the liver of treated D409V/null mice when compared to
     untreated controls. Quantitation of the number of Gaucher cells corroborated
     the biochemical findings; treated D409V/null mice displayed Gaucher cell
     counts that were not significantly different from those at the beginning of
                                             - 48 -

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     treatment at both the 5- and 10-week time points. Gaucher cell numbers at both
     these time points were significantly lower than those of untreated D409V/null
     mice. Together, these data demonstrate that Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     effectively inhibited further glucosylceramide accumulation and Gaucher cell
 5   development in animals with pre-existing pathology.
     Discussion
             Formula (1) Hemitartrate demonstrated a high degree of specificity for
     the enzyme glucosylceramide synthase. There was also no measurable
     inhibition of glucocerebrosidase activity at the effective dose, which is an
10   important feature when treating Gaucher disease type 1 patients, the majority of
     whom retain residual glucocerebrosidase activity. At the effective dose of 150
     mg/kg/day, there were no observable gastro-intestinal issues and there was no
     difference in body weights between the treated and control untreated groups.
     Serum concentrations at and above the IC50 (24-40 nM) were readily attainable
15   with oral doses that were below the maximum tolerated level. Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate also was readily metabolized and cleared: both parent compound
     and metabolites effectively cleared within 24 h as shown in single and repeat
     oral dose ADME studies with 14C-radiolabelled compound in rats and dogs.
             Using a non-optimized dosing regimen of a single daily oral gavage
20   successfully prevented glucosylceramide accumulation in both young, pre
     symptomatic mice and in older Gaucher mice that already exhibited storage
     pathology. The young, 10-week old mice, although harboring elevated
     glucosylceramide levels relative to wild-type controls, had not yet developed
     the characteristic engorged tissue macrophages, termed Gaucher cells.
25   Treatment with 150 mg/kg/day of Formula (I) Hemitartrate halted all
     measurable disease progression and inhibited the development of Gaucher cells.
     In older mice exhibiting a higher level of lysosomal glucosylceramide and
     number of Gaucher cells, there was no further increase in the levels of the
     glycosphingolipid or in the number of storage cells after either 5 weeks or 10
30   weeks of treatment. As the major source of glucosylceramide in Gaucher cells
     is reported to be extracellular in origin these results implied that Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate inhibition of glucosylceramide synthase was systemic.
                                             - 49 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
             The observation that Formula (I) Hemitartrate was effective in
     preventing further accumulation of glucosylceramide suggests a therapeutic
     strategy that could further enhance the treatment of Gaucher disease.
             In summary, the data presented here demonstrated that Formula (1)
 5   Hemitartrate is an active and specific inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase
     exhibiting no overt adverse effects in a mouse model of Gaucher disease. It
     successfully prevented disease progression in both pre-symptomatic and older
     diseased Gaucher mice by inhibiting glucosylceramide accumulation and
     Gaucher cell formation. These findings suggest that Formula (I) Hemitartrate
10   may represent yet another therapeutic option for both pediatric and adult
     Gaucher type 1 disease and potentially other glycosphingolipid storage
     disorders.
     Example 9: Phase 2 Clinical Trial of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
15           Methods. This clinical trial of Formula (I) Hemitartrate, given 50 or 100
     mg bid orally, treated 26 adults with Gaucher disease type 1 (GD 1) (16F:1OM;
     mean age of 34 years, range 18-60; all Caucasian) at 7 sites in 5 countries.
     Patients were to have splenomegaly (volume 10 normal) and either
     thrombocytopenia (platelets 45,000-100,000/mm ) or anemia (hemoglobin 8-10
20   g/dl, female; 8-11 g/dl, male). None received enzyme replacement or substrate
     reduction therapy in the prior 12 months. The composite primary efficacy
     endpoint is globin level (+0.5 g/dl) or platelet count (+15 %) after 52 weeks of
     treatment. Liver volume, chitotriosidase, glucosylceramide are also assessed.
     Patients continue to be treated and monitored long-term.
25           Results. Week 52 data were available for up to 20 patients; 4 others
     withdrew prematurely and 2 were ongoing. The composite primary endpoint
     was met by 19 of the 20 patients. Mean (lSD) changes from baseline to Week
     52 were: hemoglobin +1.6 (11.35) g/dL; platelet count +43.6% (137.59%);
     spleen and liver volume (multiples of normal) 40.2% (110.44%) and 15.8%
30   (110.39%), respectively; and chitotriosidase 49.9% (120.75 %). Plasma
     glucosylceramide levels normalized after 4 weeks in all patients, Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate was well tolerated with an acceptable safety profile. Seven related
                                            -50-

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     adverse events in 6 patients have been reported as related; all were mild and
     transient in nature.
     Example 10: Formula (1) Hemitartrate Pharmaceutical Composition, 100 mg
     Capsules
 5           Method of Preparationof 00 ing Ccipsules: Formula (1) Hemitartrate,
     microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate, and hypromellose, E15 were
     separately passed through a 20 mesh screen. Amounts of the screened
     ingredients indicated in Table 9 were blended in a high-shear granulator for
     nine to twelve minutes.
10           Table 9. Pharmaceutical Formulation for 100 mg Capsules
                                                     Unit Amount
                  Ingredient             Unit          % per     Nominal Batch
                                       Amount        Unit Dose    Size: 71,000
                                        100mg         (% w/w)    Capsules Total
                                       Capsule                  Quantity 19.2 kg
                                         (mg)
      Formula (I) Hemitartrate           100.0          37.0           7.1
      Microcrystalline cellulose         45.0           16.7           3.2
      Lactose monohydrate                111.5          41.3           7.9
      Hypromellose, E15                   10.8           4.0           0.8
      Glyceryl behenate                   2.7            1.0           0.2
              Filled weight (mg)          270                     248-292 ig
             Total % composition                       100.0         19.2 kg
             The ingredients were then wet granulated by the addition of purified
     water (2.2 kg; 11.7% of dry ingredients' weight) to the granulator bowl until
     completion, as visually confirmed. The wet granulation was discharged from
15   the bowl and passed through a rotating impellor, screening mill. The wet
     granulation was then dried in a direct heating, static, solid, bed, tray dry oven at
     50±5'C to moisture content of not more than 3.5%, as confirmed by in-process
     check. The dry granules were then passed through a screening mill and the
     screened granules were transferred to a V-blender. Glyceryl behenate (0.2 kg)
20   was added to the V-blender, and the final blend was mixed until the blend was
     uniform, as determined by an in-line or off-line blend uniformity test, typically
                                              - 51 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     for ten to twenty minutes. The final blend was then encapsulated in a #2-size
     capsule using a semi-automatic capsule filler to the appropriate fill weight (270
     mg average), and the filled capsules were dedusted before packaging.
     Example 11 A: Formula (I) Hemitartrate Pharmaceutical Composition, 10 mg
 5   Capsules
     Method of Preparation of 10 ing Capsules: The procedure of Example 10 was
     followed up to the encapsulation step. To produce a 10 mg capsule, the final
     blend was encapsulated in a #4 or #5-size capsule using a capsule filling
     machine to the appropriate fill weight (27 mg average), and the filled capsules
10   were dedusted before packaging.
     Example 1IB: Formula (I) Hemitartrate Pharmaceutical Composition, 50 mg
     Capsules
     Method of Preparationof 50 ng Capsules: The procedure of Example 10 was
     followed up to the encapsulation step. To produce a 50 mg capsule, the final
15   blend was encapsulated in a #3-size capsule using a capsule filling machine to
     the appropriate fill weight (135 mg average), and the filled capsules were
     dedusted before packaging.
     Example I1C: Formula (I) Henitartrate Pharmaceutical Composition, 150 ing
     Capsules
20   Method of Preparationof 150 ng Capsules: The procedure of Example 10 was
     followed up to the encapsulation step. To produce a 150 mg capsule, the final
     blend was encapsulated in a #0-size capsule using a capsule filling machine to
     the appropriate fill weight (405 mg average), and the filled capsules were
     dedusted before packaging.
25   Example 12: Formula (I) Hemitartrate Pharmaceutical Composition, 25 mg
     Capsules
     Method of Preparationoj25 ng Capsules: The procedure of Example 10 was
     followed up to the encapsulation step. To produce a 25 mg capsule, the final
     blend was encapsulated in a #4-size capsule using a capsule filling machine to
30   the appropriate fill weight (67.5 mg average), and the filled capsules were
     dedusted before packaging.
                                           - 52 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     Example 13: Formula (I) Hemitartrate Drug Interactions - CYP2D6 Inhibitors
             A study was performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and
     tolerability of multiple oral doses of Formula (I) Hemitartrate (100 mg BID)
     administered with and without paroxetine (30 mg once daily), a potent inhibitor
 5   of CYP2D6.       This was an open-label, fixed-sequence study in 36 healthy
     subjects (17 males and 19 females).     The secondary objectives were to evaluate
     the PK of paroxetine in combination with multiple doses of Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate (100 mg BID) in healthy subjects and to further evaluate Formula
     (I) Hemitartrate PK following multiple-dose compared with single-dose
10   Formula (I) Hemitartrate administration.
             The mean PK parameters of the free base of Formula (I) Hemitartrate as
     it exists in plasma were nonlinear and showed a 2-fold accumulation in AUC
     and Cmax with repeated administration (100 mg BID) as compared to single
     dose administration. Concomitant administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
15   and paroxetine resulted in a 7-fold increase in Cmax and 9-fold increase in AUC
     as compared to the multiple-dose administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate
     alone.   These results indicate that paroxetine can inhibit the metabolism of
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate and increases blood plasma concentrations of the
     drug. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors
20   (e.g. fluoxetine and quinidine) and careful monitoring of drug plasma levels
     and potential dose adjustments are necessary when Formula (I) Hemitartrate is
     co-administered with a drug known to be a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor.
     Paroxetine concentrations were about 1.5- to 2-fold higher than expected which
     suggests that Formula (I) Hemitartrate or one of its metabolites may be a mild
25   inhibitor of CYP2D6.
     Example 14: Formula (I) Hemitartrate Drug Interactions - CYP3A4 Inhibitors
     and p-glycoprotein (PGP) Inhibitors
             A study was performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety, and
     tolerability of multiple doses of Formula (I) Hemitartrate (100 mg twice daily)
30   with and without multiple-dose ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) in healthy
     male and female subjects. This was an open-label fixed-sequence study in 36
                                             - 53 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     healthy subjects (18 males and females) consisting of 3 periods which included
     100-mg single-dose administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate, multiple-dose
     administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate, and concomitant administration of
     Formula (I) Hemitartrate 100 mg (twice daily) with ketoconazole 400 mg (once
 5   daily).    Repeated administration of Formula (I) Hemitartrate and ketoconazole,
     a strong inhibitor of Cytochrome p450 3A4 ("CYP 3A4") and p-glycoprotein,
     resulted in a 4-fold increase in exposure of the free base of the Formula (I)
     Hemitartrate as it exists in plasma at steady state.      Thus, patients already
     receiving Formula (I) Hemitartrate may require a temporary dose reduction
10   while on concomitant therapy with strong inhibitors of CYP 3A4 or p
     glycoprotein.
     Example 15 - Stability Studies for Formula (I) Hemitartrate Formulation
              Blends were prepared by mixing Formula (I) Hemitartrate and excipients
     (Lactose Monohydrate capsulating grade, Avicel PH 301 (Microcrystalline
15   cellulose) and Methocel E15 Prem LV (Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose) in a
     scintillation vial at about a two gram scale. 15.6% water was added to the blend and
     mixed to form wet granules. The wet granules were screened using a #10 sieve
     (opening of 2000 microns). The screened granules were then dried in an oven at
     50'C for 2 hours. The dried granules were screened using a #18 sieve ( opening of
20   1000 microns). The lubricant, glyceryl behenate, was added to the blend and mixed
     to form the final blend. The blends prepared are shown in the table below:
     Table
                              Lactose      Avicel PH   50 mg / 100 mg
       Lot #      AP        Monohydrate       101       Formulation            Comment
          1        1            2.1           2.1            50                  control
         2         1            2.1             0            50             without Avicel
         3         1              0           2.1            50             without Lactose
         4         1            2.1            1.1           50                less Avicel
         5         1             1.1          2.1            50              less Lactose
         6         1            2.1           0.8            50         Avicel and Lactose ratio
                                                                         comparable to 100 mg
         7         1             1.1          0.4           100                  control
25
     Methocel (HPMC) was used in the range of 2 to 4%
     Comnritol ATO 88 was used in the range of 1 to 1.6%
                                                - 54 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
             The seven formulation blends, which have different API:lactose:Avicel
     ratios, listed above were exposed to a high temperature at 85'C for 3 days (a
     forced-degradation study condition) in order to understand the degradation rate
 5   and the stability of each formulation.. This accelerated condition was chosen
     based on the study results that the extent of the degradation products of the
     50mg drug product at 24 months was similar to those obtained at 85"C for 3
     days.
             The forced-degradation study was performed using a reverse phase
10   gradient HPLC method which used a C18 column (Waters T3, 3um, 100 x 4.6
     mm), mobile phases consisting of water and acetonitrile with 0.1%
     trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), UV detection at 280 nm, column temperature at
     40'C, and flow rate at 2 mL/min. The gradient started at holding at 5% B
     (acetonitrile and 0.1% TFA) for 0.5 minutes, and then ramping up organic
15   component at 4.83% B per minute up to 15 minutes.
             The total degradants of each formulation blend was summed and plotted
     against the ratio of API : Lactose : Avicel and the results are shown in Figure
     15.   The study results suggest that while keeping the API and Lactose ratio
     constant, decreasing the amount of avicel improves the stability of the
20   formulation. When avicel is removed, the formulation has API:Lactose:Avicel
     ratio of 1:2.1:0, it is the most stable formulation. When the lactose is
     removed, the formulation has a API:Lactose:Avicel Ratio of 1:0:2.1, and this
     formulation is not the most unstable comparing to other ratios. The combined
     information suggests that lactose stabilizes the formulation, while avicel
25   destabilizes the formulation. However, when both excipients are present, they
     interact with each other. The ratio most be adjusted to obtain a stable
     formulation.
             For active pharmaceutical ingredients like Formula (I) hemihydrate that
     are water soluble, microcrystalline cellulose helps to form granules during wet
30   granulation as it is insoluble in water. If microcrystalline cellulose was not
     used, a sharp change occurs from the granule stage to a paste form. The paste
                                              - 55 -

H:\dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16058482 l.docx-23
                                                  112017
form was difficult to handle and the resulting particles after drying do not have the suitable
mechanical strength and particle size distribution. The pharmaceutical composition that
has 37 wt% of a Formula (I) Hemitartrate, 41.0 wt% of a water-soluble filler; 16.7 wt% of
an insoluble filler, 2 wt% to about 6 wt% of a binder; and about 0.1 wt% to about 2 wt% of
a lubricant, all on a dry solids basis has the best stability profile with respect to the amount
of degradants formed.
                 The teachings of all patents, published applications and references cited herein are
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                 While this has been particularly shown and described with references to example
embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes
in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
encompassed by the appended claims.
                 Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
                 The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                         - 56 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
     1.     The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                        N       OH
                                                                0
                                            NH
                                                            ";  0
                                        0                          wherein the salt is
            an amorphous salt.
     2.     The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                        N       OH
                                            00
                                                                0
                                        0                          wherein at least
10   70%    by weight of the salt is crystalline.
     3.     The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                        N       OH
                                            NH
                                                                0
                                        0                          wherein at least
     70%    by weight of the salt is in a single crystalline form.
                                             - 57 -

WO 2011/066352                                                         PCT/US2010/057952
     4.     The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                         N       OH
                                                                0
                                             NH
                                                   N H          0
                                         O                            wherein at least
     99%    by weight of the salt is crystalline.
 5   5.     The hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                         N       OH
                                                                0
                                             NH
                                                                0
                                         0                            wherein at least
     99%    by weight of the salt is in a single crystalline form.
     6.     The hemitartrate salt of any one of Claims 1-5, wherein the hemitartrate
10          salt is selected from D-hemitartrate, L- hemitartrate,
                     hemimesotartaric acid or racemic D,L-hemitartrate.
     7.     The hemitartrate salt hemitartrate salt of any one of Claims 1-5, wherein
            the hemitartrate salt is L-hemitartrate.
     8.     The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein at least 70 % by weight of the salt is
15          the single crystalline form Form A.
     9.     The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
            by at least one major x-ray powder diffraction peak at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60,
             10.70, 11.00, 15.90, and 21.70.
                                              - 58 -

WO 2011/066352                                                           PCT/US2010/057952
     10.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline for     is characterized
            by at least two major x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5. 10,
            6.60, 10.70, 11.00, 15.90, and 21.70.
     11.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
 5          by at least three major x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 ,
            6.6 , 10.70, 11.0 , 15.90, and 21.70.
     12.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
            by at least four major x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.10,
            6.60, 10.70, 11.00, 15.90, and 21.70.
10   13.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
            by major x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.70,
             11.00, 15.90, and 21.70.
     14.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
            by x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.6', 10.70, 11.0',
15           13.30, 15.1-, 15.90, 16.50, 17.6', 18.60, 18.7-, 19.0', 20.20, 21.70 and 23.50.
     15.    The salt of Claims 3 or 5, wherein the single crystalline form is characterized
            by x-ray powder diffraction pattern of FIG. 1.
     16.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the hemitartrate salt of a
            compound represented by the following structural formula:
                                           N        OH
                                                                      0
                                                NH
                                                                      0
20                                         0                                anda
            pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
                                               - 59 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     17.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein the salt is an
            amorphous salt.
     18.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein at least 70% by
            weight of the salt is crystalline.
 5   19.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein at least 70% by
            weight of the salt is in a single crystalline form.
     20.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein at least 99% by
            weight of the salt is crystalline.
     21.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein at least 99% by
10          weight of the salt is in a single crystalline form.
     22.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein the hemitartrate
            salt is selected from D-hemitartrate, L- hemitartrate, hemimesotartaric
            acid or racemic DL-hemitartrate.
     23.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 16, wherein the hemitartrate
15          salt is L-hemitartrate.
     24.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein at least 70
            % by weight of the salt is the single crystalline form Form A.
     25.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
            crystalline form is characterized by at least one major x-ray powder
20          diffraction peak at 20 angles of 5.1', 6.6', 10.7', I1.0', 15.90, and 21.70.
     26.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
            crystalline form is characterized by at least two major x-ray powder
            diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.7', 11.00, 15.90, and 21.7*.
     27.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
25          crystalline form is characterized by at least three major x-ray powder
            diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.7', 11.00, 15.90, and 21.7'.
                                              - 60 -

WO 2011/066352                                                          PCT/US2010/057952
     28.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
            crystalline form is characterized by at least four major x-ray powder
            diffraction peaks at 20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.7', 11.00, 15.90, and 21.70.
     29.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
 5          crystalline form is characterized by major x-ray powder diffraction peaks at
            20 angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.70, 11.0 , 15.90, and 21.7'.
     30.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
            crystalline form is characterized by x-ray powder diffraction peaks at 20
            angles of 5.1 , 6.60, 10.70, 11.00, 13.30, 15.1 , 15.90, 16.50, 17.60, 18.60,
10           18.70, 19.0', 20.20, 21.70 and 23.50.
     31.    The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 19 or 21, wherein the single
            crystalline form is characterized by x-ray powder diffraction pattern of FIG.
             1.
     32.    A method of treating a subject with Gaucher disease, comprising
15          administering to the subject an effective amount of the hemitartrate salt
            of any one of Claims 1-15.
     33.    A method of treating a subject with Fabry disease, comprising
            administering to the subject an effective amount of the hemitartrate salt
            of any one of Claims 1-15.
20   34.    A method of inhibiting glucosylceramide synthase or lowering
            glycosphingolipid concentrations in a subject in need thereof by
            administering to the subject an effective amount of the hemitartrate salt
            of any one of Claims 1-15.
     35.    The method of Claim 32, 33 or 34, comprising administering the
25          hemitartrate salt at a twice daily dose of from 25 milligrams to 200
            milligrams.
     36.    The method of Claim 32, 33 or 34, comprising administering the
            hemitartrate salt at a twice daily dose of 50 milligrams.
                                              - 61 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     37.    A method of treating a subject with Gaucher disease, comprising
            administering to the subject an effective amount of a first compound
            represented by the following structural formula:
                                      N       OH
                                                            0
                                         NH
                                               N   H        0
                                      0                           ;ora
 5          pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with an
            effective amount of a second therapeutic agent that is effective for
            treating Gaucher disease.
     38.    The method of Claim 37 wherein the second therapeutic agent is
            imiglucerase.
10   39.    The method of Claim 37 wherein the second therapeutic agent is
            isofagomine.
     40.    The method of Claim 37 wherein the second therapeutic agent is
            miglustat.
     41.    A method of treating a subject with Fabry disease, the method
15          comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a first
            therapeutic agent represented by the following structural formula:
                                      N       OH
                                                            0
                                         NH
                                                            0
                                      0                          or a pharmaceutically
            acceptable salt thereof in combination with an effective amount of a
            second therapeutic agent that is effective for treating Fabry disease.
                                            - 62 -

WO 2011/066352                                                       PCT/US2010/057952
     42.    The method of Claim 41 where the second therapeutic agent is
     migalastat.
     43.    The method of Claim 41 where the second therapeutic agent is
            agalsidase  P.
 5   44.    The method of any one of Claims 37-43 wherein the first therapeutic
            agent is administered as the hemitartrate of any one of Claims 1-15.
     45.    The method of any of Claims 37-43, wherein treatment with the first
            therapeutic agent is begun after treatment over a period of at least ten
            weeks with the second therapeutic agent.
10   46.    The method of any one of Claims 37-43, wherein treatment with the first
            therapeutic agent is begun after treatment with the second therapeutic
            agent and wherein treatment with the first therapeutic agent is initiated
            after the subject's platelet count is equal to or greater than 100,000 mm3
            ; hemoglobin concentration is equal to or greater than 11 g/dl (female)
15          or 12 g/dl (male); and/or the subject's spleen volume is less than or
            equal to 10 multiples of normal and liver volumes are less than or equal
            to 1.5 multiples of normal.
     47.    The method of Claim 45 or 46 wherein treatment with the second
            therapeutic agent is terminated after initiation of treatment with the first
20          therapeutic agent.
     48.    The method of any one of Claims 37-47, comprising administering the
            first therapeutic agent at a twice daily dose of from 25 milligrams to 200
            milligrams.
     49.    The method of any one of Claims 37-47, comprising administering the
25          first therapeutic agent at a twice daily dose of 50 milligrams.
     50.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising:
                    the hemitartrate salt of a compound represented by the following
            structural formula:
                                             - 63 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
                                         N       OH
                                                              O
                                             NH
                                                              0
                                         0
                     at least one water-soluble filler;
                     at least one water-insoluble filler;
                     at least one binder; and
 5                   at least one lubricant.
     51.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the hemitartrate
            salt is the hemitartrate salt of any one of Claims 1-15.
     52.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the water-soluble
            filler is selected from the group consisting of anhydrous lactose, lactose
10          monohydrate, mannitol, sodium chloride, powdered sugar, sorbitol,
            sucrose, inositol and pregelatinized starch.
     53.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the water
            insoluble filler is selected from the group consisting of microcrystalline
            cellulose, calcium phosphate and. starch.
15   54.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the binder is
            selected from the group consisting of pre-gelatinized starch, sodium
            carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
            methyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, copolyvidone, gelatin, natural
            gums, starch paste, sucrose, corn syrup, polyethylene glycols
20          and sodium alginate.
      55.   The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the lubricant is
            selected from the group consisting of hydrogenated vegetable oil,
            calcium stearate, and glyceryl behenate.
                                              - 64 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     56.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the water-soluble
            filler is selected from the group consisting of anhydrous lactose, lactose
            monohydrate, mannitol, sodium chloride, powdered sugar, sorbitol,
            sucrose, inositol and pregelatinized starch; the water-insoluble filler is
 5          selected from the group consisting of microcrystalline cellulose, calcium
            phosphate and starch; the binder is selected from the group consisting of
            pre-gelatinized starch, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
            cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone,
            copolyvidone, gelatin, natural gums, starch paste, sucrose, corn syrup,
10          polyethylene glycols and sodium alginate; and the lubricant is selected
            from the group consisting of hydrogenated vegetable oil, calcium
            stearate, and glyceryl behenate.
     57.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 26 wt% to 50 wt% of the water-soluble filler on a dry solids
15          basis.
     58.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 8 wt% to 32 wt% of the water-insoluble filler on a dry solids
            basis.
     59.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
20          comprises 8 wt% to 24 wt% of the water-insoluble filler on a dry solids
            basis.
     60.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 12 wt% to 20 wt% of the water-insoluble filler on a dry solids
            basis.
25   61.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 14 wt% to 18 wt% of the water-insoluble filler on a dry solids
            basis.
     62.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 2 wt% to 6 wt% of the binder on a dry solids basis.
                                            - 65 -

WO 2011/066352                                                      PCT/US2010/057952
     63.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 0.1 wt% to 2 wt% of a lubricant on a dry solids basis.
     64.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the composition
            comprises 35 wt% to 40 wt% of the hemitartrate salt, 26 wt% to 50 wt%
 5          of the water-soluble filler; 8 wt% to 32 wt% of the water-insoluble
            filler; 2 wt% to 6 wt% of the binder; and 0.1 wt% to 2 wt% of the
            lubricant, all on a dry solids basis.
     65.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 56, wherein the water-soluble
            filler is lactose monohydrate; the water-insoluble filler is
10          microcrystalline cellulose; the binder is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose;
            and the lubricant is glyceryl behenate.
     66.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 65, wherein the composition
            comprises 35 wt% to 40 wt% of the hemitartrate salt, 26 wt% to 50 wt%
            of the lactose monohydrate; 8 wt% to 32 wt% of the microcrystalline
15          cellulose; 2 wt% to 6 wt% of the hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; and
            0.1 wt% to 2 wt% of the glyceryl behenate, all on a dry solids basis..
     67.    A method of treating a subject with Fabry disease, the method
     comprising:
            a)       administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
20                   of Formula (I):
                                                      N      OH
                                                                           0
                                                         NH/
                                                                           O
                                                                           0
                                                      0                          ora
                     pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
            b)       testing the subject to determine whether the subject is a poor,
                     intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer;
                                              - 66 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
            c)     if the subject is an intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450
                   metabolizer,
                   determining an adjusted effective amount of the compound; and
            d)     administering to the subject an adjusted effective amount of the
 5                 compound of Formula (I) if the subject is an intermediate or
                   extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer and administering to the
                   subject an effective amount of the compound of Formula (T) if the
                   subject is a poor P450 metabolizer.
     68.    A method of treating a subject with Gaucher disease, the method
10          comprising:
            a)     administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
                   of Formula (I):
                                                     N      OH
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                     0                         ;or a
                  pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
15          b)     testing the subject to determine whether the subject is a poor,
                   intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer;
            c)     if the subject is an intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450
                   metabolizer, determining an adjusted effective amount of the
                   compound; and
20          d)     administering to the subject an adjusted effective amount of the
                   compound of Formula (I) if the subject is an intermediate or
                   extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer and administering to the
                   subject an effective amount of the compound of Formula (I) if the
                   subject is a poor P450 metabolizer.
25   69.    The method of Claim 67 or 68, wherein the compound is the
            hemitartrate salt of any one of Claims 1-15.
                                             - 67 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
     70.    The method of any one of Claims 67-69, wherein testing comprises
            monitoring trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject for a
            period of at least one week.
     71.    The method of any one of Claims 67-69, wherein testing comprises
 5          monitoring trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject for a
            period of at least ten weeks.
     72.    The method of any one of Claims 67-71, wherein the subject is an
            intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer enzyme if plasma
            trough levels of the compound in the subject are below 5 ng/mi and the
10          adjusted effective amount of the compound is selected to result in trough
            levels of the compound in the subject of at least 5 ng/mg.
     73.    The method of any one of Claims 67-71, wherein the subject is a poor
            P450 enzyme if plasma trough levels of the compound are at least 5
            ng/ml after being administered an effective amount of the compound.
15   74.    The method of any one of Claims 67 or 68, wherein testing in step b)
            occurs before or after treatment begins.
     75.    The method of any one of Claims 67-74, wherein the P450 enzyme is
            CYP2D6 enzyme and/or CYP3A4 enzyme.
     76.    The method of any one of Claims 67-75, wherein the subject is a poor
20          P450 metabolizer as a result of being co-administered an inhibitor of
            CYP2D6 enzyme or CYP3A4 enzyme.
     77.    The method of claim 76, wherein the inhibitor is selected from the group
            consisting of paroxetine, fluoxetine, quinidine, and ketoconazole.
     78.    The method of claim 67 or 69, wherein the testing in step b) is by
25          genotyping for P450 enzyme.
     79.    The method of Claim 78 wherein the P450 enzyme is CYP2D6.
                                           - 68 -

WO 2011/066352                                                    PCT/US2010/057952
     80.    The method of any one of Claims 67-79, wherein the effective amount
            of the compound is a twice daily dose of from 25 milligrams to 200
            milligrams.
     81.    The method of any one of Claims 67-79, wherein the effective amount
 5          of the compound is a twice daily dose of 50 milligrams.
     82.    A method of treating a subject with Fabry disease comprising the steps
     of:
                    a)    administering to the subject an effective amount of a
                          compound represented by the following structural
10                        formula:
                                              N       OH
                                                      -           0
                                                   NH
                                                                  0
                                              0                        ;or a
                         pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                    b)    assessing trough plasma levels of the compound in the
                          subject;
15                  c)    adjusting the amount of compound administered to the
                          subject so that the trough plasma levels of the compound
                          in the subject are at least 5 ng/ml.
     83.    A method of treating a subject with Gaucher disease comprising the
            steps of:
20                  a)    administering to the subject an effective amount of a
                          compound represented by the following structural
                          formula:
                                            - 69 -

WO 2011/066352                                                     PCT/US2010/057952
                                               N       OH
                                                                   0
                                                    NH
                                               0                        ;ora
                           pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                   b)      assessing trough plasma levels of the compound in the
                           subject;
 5                 c)      adjusting the amount of compound administered to the
                           subject so that the trough plasma levels of the compound
                           in the subject are at least 5 ng/ml.
     84.    The method of Claim 82 or 83, wherein the subject is tested before
            treatment with the compound begins to assess whether the subject is a
10          poor, intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer, and
            wherein the effective amount is determined based on whether the
            subject is a poor, intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer.
     85.    The method of Claim 82, 83 or 84, wherein the compound is the
            hemitartrate salt of any one of Claims 1-15.
15   86.    The method of Claim 82 or 83, wherein in step b) the Cmax of the
            compound in the subject is also assessed and wherein in step c) the
            amount of compound administered to the subject is adjusted so that the
            trough plasma levels of the compound in the subject are at least 5 ng/ml
            and the Cmax of the compound in the subject are below 100 ng/ml.
20   87.    The method of any one of Claims 82-86, wherein the P450 enzyme is
            CYP2D6 enzyme and/or CYP3A4 enzyme.
     88.    The method of any one of Claims 82-86, wherein the subject is a poor
            P450 enzyme metabolizer as a result of co-administration of a P450
            enzyme inhibitor.
                                             - 70 -

WO 2011/066352                                                    PCT/US2010/057952
     89.    The method of Claim 88, wherein the inhibitor is selected from the
            group consisting of paroxetine, fluoxetine, quinidine, and ketoconazole.
     90.    The method of any one of Claims 82-86, wherein P450 enzyme
            expression in the subject is assessed to determine whether the subject is
 5          a poor, intermediate or extensive/ultra rapid P450 metabolizer.
     91.    The method of Claim 90 wherein the p450 enzyme is CYP2D6 or
            CYP3A4.
     92.    The method of any of Claims 82-90, wherein the effective amount of the
            compound is a twice daily dose of from 25 milligrams to 200
10          milligrams.
     93.    The method of any of Claims 82-90, wherein the effective amount of the
            compound is a twice daily dose of 50 milligrams.
                                            - 71 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
