  ABSTRACT
          The present invention relates to a gaming system and to a method of gaming,
  where a reel game is played. A plurality of symbols are selected from a set of symbols
5 for play of the game, and a game outcome is based on patterns of symbols in rows and
  columns of a display.
          As a feature game, in response to a trigger condition, game outcomes can be
  based on other patterns of symbols, such as stair patterns and pyramid patterns.

                                                -1
                    A GAMING SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GAMING
   Related Application
 5           The present application is a divisional application of Australian application no.
   <removed-apn>, which, in turn, is a divisional application of 2014203493, which, in turn,
   is a divisional application of 2012201591, which, in turn, is a divisional application of
   2009200230, the disclosure of these applications which are incorporated herein by
   reference. Most of the disclosure of these applications is also included herein, however,
10 reference may be made to the specifications            of application nos. <removed-apn>,
   2014203493, 2012201591 and 2009200230 as filed to gain further understanding of the
   invention claimed herein.
   Field of the Invention
15
             The present invention relates to a gaming system and to a method of gaming.
   Background of the Invention
20           It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a game controller
   arranged to randomly select and cause the display of a set of symbols from a
   predetermined set of symbols and to determine a game outcome, such as a game win,
   based on the displayed symbols. Such gaming systems may commonly be implemented
   as a stepping machine provided with reels with each reel carrying several symbols of
25 the set, or a video machine wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual reels on a
   graphical display device. Win outcomes can occur based on symbols appearing on one
   or more horizontal lines, diagonal lines, or any other predetermined way. Typically,
   five reels across are provided on the display (although less or more may be provided).
   Each reel or virtual reel display is three symbols high in the display window for the reel
30 (although, again, this may be more or less symbols high).
             In known gaming systems, a player can choose whether or not to wager on one
   or more win "win lines" for each play of the game. A win line is a predetermined line

                                               -2
   through an arrangement of symbol positions in the row and column array provided by
   the reels. In known gaming systems, many different win lines are available.           In a
   typical gaming system, with a five column by three row display, win lines 1, 2 and 3 are
   designated as the horizontally extending lines comprising the centre row, top row and
 5 bottom row, respectively. Win lines may be designated as extending from bottom left
   corner to top right corner of the reel display, and from top right corner to bottom left
   corner of the reel display (e.g. win lines 4 and 5). Many other win lines are known in
   the art. Typically, if a player does not bet on a particular win line, even if a winning
   symbol combination comes up on that win line he may not win a prize.
10           It is known to provide gaming systems which play a base game (which may
   determine a game outcome based on selection from pre-determined set of symbols) and
   a feature game. The feature game may be generated as a result of a game outcome of
   the base game. For example, a feature game may comprise one or more "free games"
   based on a pre-determined combination of symbols occurring as a result of a play of a
15 base game, or some other pre-determined criteria.
             Whilst such gaming systems provide users with their enjoyment, the need
   exists for alternative gaming systems in order to maintain or increase player enjoyment.
   It would be useful to provide an extra way of awarding prizes to a player, for example,
   or to provide extra variations or new games which are visually interesting and attractive
20 to players.
   Summary of the Invention
             In accordance with a first aspect, the present invention provides a gaming
25 system, comprising a game controller arranged to control play of a base game and a
   feature game, and a display arranged to display a representation of play of the base
   game and the feature game, the game controller being arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of the base game;
             control the display to display the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows
30 and columns;
             determine an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
   symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is

                                               -3
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
   winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns of the display and that aligns
   with a win line from a plurality of activated win lines of the base game;
             generate a feature game after the base game in response to a trigger condition;
 5 and
             determine an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a non-linear
   pattern of symbols displayed in the fixed rows and columns of the display during the
   feature game is a winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the plurality
   of activated win lines of the base game, wherein the non-linear pattern comprises two or
10 more symbols within a column.
             It is an advantage of at least one embodiment of the invention, that offering a
   feature in which an outcome of the game depends on the occurrence of a different "win
   pattern", gives a further prize winning opportunity for a player and increases interest
   and entertainment in the gaming system.
15           In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern comprises a "stair combination". A
   stair combination comprises a plurality of symbols displayed in a stair pattern,
   including at least one step and extending from left to right in the row and column
   arrangement of symbols.      A "step" is when the pattern moves from one row to an
   adjacent row at the same time as moving from one column to an adjacent column. The
20 stair combination may be a "down" stair combination (step down from left to right) or
   an "up" stair combination (step up from left to right). A stair combination ends on
   either a lower (step down) or upper (step up) row and starts on a lower (step up) or
   higher (step down) row, from left to right in the arrangement of rows and columns.
             In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern of symbols comprises a "pyramid
25 combination". A pyramid combination comprises a plurality of symbols displayed in a
   pyramid pattern. A "normal" pyramid includes at least one step up in the pattern of
   symbols and one step down in the pattern of symbols extending from left to right. An
   "inverted pyramid" includes at least one step down and one step up extending from left
   to right in the pattern of symbols. A pyramid has a base, comprising at least two
30 symbols on the same row, and a top, comprising at least one symbol on a row different
   from the base symbols row. The pyramid may be a "flattened pyramid" in which case
   the top includes at least two symbols on the same row.

                                              -4
             In at least an embodiment, providing a pyramid or stair combination or other
   non-linear pattern as a feature provides an easily identifiable pattern by which a player
   can identify the game outcome. It also provides an interesting graphical feature for the
   player to look for.
 5           In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern may include symbols which are
   "stacked" in the same column. For example, in "reel" games, rows and columns of
   symbol positions are represented on the display as a reel bearing the symbols, or are on
   an actual reel bearing the symbols. It is known in some reel games, to have "stacked"
   symbols, wherein the same symbol may be included two or more times on the same
10 reel. In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern may include stacked symbols within the
   pattern.
             In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern is a rectangular pattern of symbols.
   In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern is a rhombus of symbols. In an embodiment,
   the non-linear pattern is a hexagon pattern. In an embodiment, the non-linear pattern is
15 a triangle pattern of symbols. The symbols in the pattern may be the same symbols, or
   different symbols. The non-linear pattern of symbols may be any non-linear pattern.
             In an embodiment, the feature game may comprise one or more separate games
   played in addition to a base game. The base game may, for example, be played for
   game outcomes based on conventional win line patterns. The feature game in this
20 embodiment is then played for game outcomes which include a game outcome
   depending on the occurrence of a non-linear pattern of symbols. The game outcome of
   the feature game may also include other outcomes, which may be standard win lines.
             In an embodiment, the feature game may be played as a feature within a base
   game.    The base game may, for example, be played for game outcomes including
25 standard win lines, and when the feature is generated, the standard game will have at
   least one additional game outcome depending on the occurrence of a non-linear pattern
   of symbols.
             An advantage of at least an embodiment of the invention, is to provide new
   win patterns which are played independently of the existing win line systems.         The
30 feature game may be played as a variation of a base game (as discussed above) or as a
   separate feature game. The provision of new win line patterns played as a variation on
   a base game or as a separate feature game advantageously maintains player interest and

                                                -5
   excitement.
             In an embodiment, if a non-linear pattern of symbols is achieved as an
   outcome, the game controller is arranged to adjust the position of at least one of the
   symbols to vary the pattern. In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
 5 control the display to show the adjusted pattern. In an embodiment, the game controller
   is arranged to adjust the non-linear pattern to a line pattern.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to control the display to
   display a graphical character moving over the non-linear pattern of symbols.            The
   graphical character may be associated with a prize award to the player. The graphical
10 character may be any character, e.g. a representation of an animal, a human being,
   cartoon character or any other character.
             In an embodiment, the trigger condition may be any trigger condition. In an
   embodiment, the game controller may detect an amount of credit input via a player
   interface on actuation of the player interface to indicate that the credit has been placed
15 for the feature. The feature will then be generated.         In an embodiment, the trigger
   condition may comprise an arrangement of symbols having been selected in the game.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to control the display so
   that a line is displayed through or over the non-linear pattern of symbols.
             In an embodiment, the rows and columns of symbol positions are represented
20 on the display as a reel bearing the symbols, or is an actual reel bearing the symbols.
             In accordance with a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   gaming comprising:
             selecting a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of a base game;
             displaying the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows and columns of a
25 display;
             determining an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
   symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
   winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns and that aligns with a win line
30 from a plurality of predetermined win lines of the base game;
             playing a feature game after the base in response to a predetermined trigger
   condition being satisfied; and

                                                -6
             determining an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a
   non-linear pattern of symbols in the fixed rows and columns of the display during the
   feature game is a non-linear winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the
   plurality of predetermined win lines of the base game, wherein the non-linear pattern
 5 includes a plurality of symbols in one column.
             In accordance with a third aspect, the present invention provides a computer
   program comprising instructions for controlling a computer to implement a gaming
   system in accordance with the first aspect of the invention.
             In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a computer
10 readable medium providing a computer program in accordance with the third aspect of
   the invention.
             In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present invention provides a data signal
   comprising a computer program in accordance with the third aspect of the invention.
             In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present invention provides a game
15 controller for a gaming system comprising a display, the game controller comprising a
   processor arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of a base game;
             control the display to display the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows
   and columns;
20           determine an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
   symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
   winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns and that aligns with a win line
   from a plurality of activated win lines of the base game;
25           generate a feature game after the base game in response to a trigger condition;
   and
             determine an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a non linear
   pattern of symbols in the fixed rows and columns the display during the feature game is
   a winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the plurality of activated win
30 lines of the base game, wherein the non linear pattern comprises two or more symbols
   within a column.

                                              -7
             In accordance with a seventh aspect, the present invention provides a computer
   program, comprising instructions for controlling a computer to implement a game
   controller in accordance with the sixth aspect of the invention.
             In accordance with an eighth aspect, the present invention provides a computer
 5 readable medium, providing a computer program in accordance with the seventh aspect
   of the invention.
             In accordance with a ninth aspect, the present invention provides a data signal,
   comprising a computer program in accordance with the seventh aspect of the invention.
10 Brief Description of the Figures
             Features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from
   the following description of embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
15           Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core components of a gaming system
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention with the gaming system implemented in
   the form of a standalone gaming machine;
20           Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative components of the gaming
   machine shown in Figure 2;
             Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of components of a memory of the
   gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
             Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in accordance with an
25 alternative embodiment of the present invention with the gaming system implemented
   over a network;
             Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of functional components of a gaming system
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 7 is a schematic representation of an example display generated by a
30 gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
             Figures 8 through 12 are example displays generated by a gaming system in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, illustrating various feature

   game patterns;
              Figures 13 and 14 are schematic representations of example displays generated
   by a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
   illustrating further feature patterns;
 5            Figures 15a and 15b are schematic representations of example displays
   generated by a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention, illustrating an adjustment in position of the symbols in a feature pattern;
              Figure 16 is an example display generated by a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention, showing a further feature pattern;
10            Figures17 and 18 are schematic representations of example displays generated
   by a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
   illustrating further feature patterns;
              Figures 19 to 21 are schematic representations of example displays generated
   by a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
15 illustrating the adjustment of position of symbols arranged in feature patterns;
              Figure 22 is an example display generated by a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention, illustrating a further feature;
              Figures 23 and 24 are flow diagrams illustrating operation of a gaming system
   in accordance with embodiments of the present invention, and
20            Figures 25 to 28 are schematic representations of example displays generated
   by a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
   illustrating further feature patterns.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
25
              Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system arranged to
   implement a game in which a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols are selected
   and displayed in symbol positions in rows and columns.           In this embodiment, the
   gaming system is also arranged to play a feature, in which a prize may be awarded for
30 non-linear patterns of symbols. Figure 8, for example, illustrates a display 400 which
   shows a stair-down pattern 405 of "10" symbols. In standard slot games, this type of
   pattern is normally not a winning pattern. In this feature, the player is given a chance to

                                                -9
   play for this type of pattern to win a prize. This has the advantage of providing further
   opportunities for players to win prizes, providing further entertainment, and a
   graphically interesting, easy to understand win pattern.
             The gaming system can take a number of different forms.
 5           In a first form, a standalone gaming machine is provided wherein all or most
   components required for implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine.
             In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided wherein some of the
   components required for implementing the game are present in a player operable
10 gaming machine and some of the components required for implementing the game are
   located remotely relative to the gaming machine.          For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of the game is executed
15 remotely such as by a gaming server and a player operable gaming machine is used
   only to display audible and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive
   gaming inputs from the player.
             However, it will be understood that other arrangements are envisaged. For
   example, an architecture may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a
20 gaming server and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.      For example, the gaming system may operate in
   standalone gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode depending
   on the game being played, operating conditions, and so on. Other variations will be
   apparent to persons skilled in the art.
25           Irrespective   of the form, the gaming        system comprises several core
   components. At the broadest level, the core components are a player interface 50 and a
   game controller 60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is arranged to enable
   manual interaction between a player and the gaming system and for this purpose
   includes the input/output components required for the player to enter instructions and
30 play the game.
             Components      of the player interface     may vary from embodiment         to
   embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input

                                              - 10
   credits and receive payouts, one or more displays 54 and a game play mechanism 56
   that enables a player to input game play instructions (e.g. to place bets), and one or
   more speakers 58.
             The game controller 60 is in data communication with the player interface and
 5 typically includes a processor 62 that processes the game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
   Typically, the game play instructions are stored as program code in a memory 64 but
   can also be hardwired. Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically to any
   device that can process game play instructions in accordance with game play rules and
10 may include: a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or other
   computational device, a general purpose computer (e.g. a PC) or a server.
             A gaming system in the form of a standalone gaming machine 10 is illustrated
   in Figure 2. The gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on
   which is displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player. A
15 mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a
   player to interact with the gaming machine, in particular during gameplay.              The
   mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in this example includes a
   coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B. Other credit input mechanisms may also
   be employed, for example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
20 card. A player marketing module (not shown) having a reading device may also be
   provided for the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
   loyalty program. The player tracking device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or
   any other portable storage medium capable of being read by the reading device.
             A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay tables and
25 details of bonus awards and other information or images relating to the game. Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the console 12. A
   coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts from the
   gaming machine 10.
             The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video display unit,
30 particularly a cathode ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the display 14 may be a
   liquid crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the visible
   portion of an electromechanical device. The top box 26 may also include a display, for

                                              - 11
   example a video display unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or of a
   different type.
             Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a typical gaming
   machine which may be the same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
 5           The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a processor
   102.   Instructions and data to control operation of the processor 102 are stored in a
   memory 103, which is in data communication with the processor 102. Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than
   one of each type of memory, with such memories being collectively represented by the
10 memory 103.
             The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes including ensuring
   regulatory compliance and monitoring player credit, an input/output (I/O) interface 105
   for communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100.                The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
15 their own memory for storing associated instructions and data for use with the
   input/output interface or the peripheral devices. A random number generator module
   113 generates random numbers for use by the processor 102. Persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
             In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120 includes peripheral
20 devices that communicate with the game controller 101 comprise one or more displays
   106, a touch screen 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor
   and/or coin input and/or buttons mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
   may be omitted as required for the specific implementation.
25           In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface,
   for example a network card 112.        The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
   or database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
30           Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an exemplary
   memory 103.       The memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM 103B and a mass
   storage device 103C. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program files for

                                               - 12
   execution by the processor 102 and related data. The EPROM 103B may be a boot
   ROM device and/or may contain some system or game related code. The mass storage
   device 103C is typically used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be
   verified and/or authenticated by the processor 102 using protected code from the
 5 EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
            It is also possible for the operative components of the gaming machine 100 to
   be distributed, for example input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111          to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
            Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an alternative
10 embodiment. The gaming system 200 includes a network 201, which for example may
   be an Ethernet network. Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the network 201. The gaming
   machines 202 provide a player operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have simplified functionality
15 depending on the requirements for implementing game play. While banks 203 of two
   gaming machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming
   machines are also envisaged.
            One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201.         The
   displays 204 may, for example, be associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming
20 machines.    The displays 204 may be used to display representations associated with
   game play on the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other representations,
   for example promotional or informational material.
            In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part of the game
   played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
25 implements part of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and the
   gaming device implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game controller.
   A database management server 206 may manage storage of game programs and
   associated data for downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database
   206A. Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot game,
30 a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to monitor and carry out the Jackpot game. A
   loyalty program server 212 may also be provided.
            In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most or all of the

                                                - 13
   game played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
   essentially provides only the player interface. With this embodiment, the game server
   205 provides the game controller. The gaming machine will receive player instructions,
   pass these to the game server which will process them and return game play outcomes
 5 to the gaming machine for display. In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software that provides a player interface
   operable using standard computer input and output components.
              Servers are also typically provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
   network 200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
10 licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to particular games. An
   administrator terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201
   and the devices connected to the network.
             The gaming network 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other
   local networks, for example a corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as
15 the Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
             Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance with known
   techniques, functionality at the server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.       For example, elements may be run as a single
   "engine" on one server or a separate server may be provided. For example, the game
20 server 205 could run a random generator engine.            Alternatively, a separate random
   number generator server could be provided.         Further, persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be provided to run different games or
   a single game server may run a plurality of different games as required by the terminals.
             Referring to Figure 6, the functionality of embodiments of the present
25 invention may be implemented by a game controller having the functional components
   illustrated. In this embodiment, the functional components are implemented utilising a
   processor and memory (such as processor 102 and memory 103 in Figure 3, or
   processor 62 and memory 64 in Figure 1, or the game server 205 in Figure 5), and
   associated programming.        Other implementations are envisaged.        For example the
30 functional blocks of Figure 6 may be implemented in hardware as separate units, or a
   combination of hardware and software as separate units. Any practical implementation
   of these functional units may be employed.

                                              - 14
             In this embodiment, the game controller 300 is arranged to control the gaming
   system to play a game which comprises selection of a plurality of symbols from a set of
   symbols.     The game is implemented as a "reel" game.         The game controller 300
   comprises a display controller 301 which is arranged to control the display (reference
 5 numerals 54, 14, 106, 204 of previous figures) to emulate a representation of reels
   bearing symbols. Alternatively, the display may comprise a stepper motor and physical
   reels bearing the symbols.
             The game controller 300 includes a symbol selector 302 which is arranged to
   select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols available in a symbol store 303. An
10 outcome generator 304 is arranged to determine an outcome of the game.            In this
   embodiment, the outcome of the game depends on the selected symbols and may
   include a win outcome, loss outcome, trigger outcome, a feature outcome or other
   outcome. Outcomes may be determined on the basis of symbols appearing in one or
   more horizontal lines, diagonal lines, or any other pre-determined combinations.
15           Figure 7 shows a representation of a gaming machine display 400 which, in the
   example shown, has five reels (numbered "1"to "5"). The display 400 shows three reel
   positions high when the reels have stopped / the symbols have been selected. The reel
   positions are designated Bottom ("B"), Centre ("C") and Top ("T"). This is a typical
   reel-type display for a gaming machine.          It will be appreciated that in other
20 embodiments the number of reel positions may be more or less than in display 400.
   Also the number of reels may be more or less than in the display 400.
             The reels may be virtual reels, generated as a video display from the selected
   symbols, actual mechanical reels carrying the symbols and driven by a stepper motor,
   or any other reel arrangement or emulation. In the case of actual physical reels, the
25 game controller drives a stepper motor to randomly select the symbols appearing in the
   display 400.
             The game outcome is determined by the outcome generator 304 based on
   combinations of symbols selected and appearing in the display 400. The symbols may
   be any symbols. As will be appreciated, many different types of symbols are used in
30 gaming systems.       A set of symbols may include standard symbols and function
   symbols. For example, standard symbols may resemble fruit such as apples, pears and
   bananas with a win outcome being determined when a predetermined number of the

                                               - 15
   same fruit appear on a display in the same line, scattered, and so on. The function
   associated with a function symbol may be a "wild" function wherein display of the
   function symbol is treated during consideration of the game outcome as any of the
   standard symbols. Other functions may include scatter functions, multiplier functions,
 5 repeat win functions, jackpot functions and feature commencement functions.
             In the example shown in Figure 7, the symbols are representations of cards, by
   which a poker-type card game may be played. In this example, a winning poker hand
   appearing on the C line may cause the outcome generator to determine that a Win has
   occurred and that an appropriate prize may be awarded. For example, five of a kind
10 (e.g. 5 jacks "J". 5 tens "10" etc) on the C line may result in a win. A straight or a
   straight flush or any other poker combination on the C line may also result in a win.
   "JP" are also shown representing jackpot symbols.
             The diagram shown in Figure 7 is one way of representing the symbols only.
   It will be appreciated that in other embodiments of the invention symbols may be
15 represented in different ways, using any type of fancy artwork, or in any appropriate
   manner.
             Operation of embodiments of the present invention will now be described with
   reference to Figures 7 to 28.
             Referring to Figure 7, the symbol selector 302 selects a plurality of symbols
20 from symbols available from the symbol store 303. The game controller 300 operates
   via the display controller 301 to emulate spinning of reels in the display 400.        The
   selected symbols 401 are "spun up" on the reels. This is how a conventional video
   animated reel spin game operates.        A game outcome is determined by the outcome
   generator 304 depending upon line or scatter combinations (or other features, such as
25 bonus awards) of the symbols appearing in the display 400.
             A player may bet credit on one or more "win lines". Referring to Figure 7,
   typically there are at least three win lines in a conventional slot machine. Examples are
   illustrated by ghost lines through the top T, centre C and bottom B rows. These give
   win lines 1 (C), 2(T) and 3(B). A player may bet credit on one or more lines. If a
30 winning symbol combination appears on a win line that a player has bet credit on, then
   they win the appropriate multiple of their credit as a prize. If they do not bet any credit
   on a win line, and any winning combination comes up on that line, then the player will

                                                - 16
   generally receive no return. There may be many other win lines in gaming systems,
   some gaming systems provide up to 100 win lines that a player can bet credit on. In
   order to maintain player interest, it is desirable to be able to offer different ways of
   winning more prizes, and more variety of games. In this embodiment of the present
 5 invention, the gaming system is arranged so that a player may play for a "feature"
   which includes the player being able to obtain non-standard win patterns, in this
   embodiment being of a non-linear pattern.         These are not win patterns in a base or
   "standard" game (although an alternative embodiment does allow them to be win
   patterns in a base game - see later) but must be awarded to the player as a feature in
10 response to a trigger condition being satisfied.     This gives an extra "level" of game
   play, which is advantageously entertaining and maintains player interest.
             Figures 8 to 14 illustrate various feature patterns in accordance with this
   embodiment of this invention, termed "stair combinations". If a player obtains a feature
   game (by satisfying a pre-determined trigger condition) then he may play for a prize
15 which may be paid when one or more of the designated stair combinations is achieved.
   Which of stair combinations are designated is determined by the game designer.
             Figure 8 illustrates a "stair-down corner to corner" pattern which may be a
   winning combination, of "10" symbols.          The stair-down corner to corner pattern is
   referenced by numeral 405. Reading from left to right of the column/row arrangement
20 of symbol positions, the first symbol of the pattern starts in the top left hand corner,
   steps down from Columns 2 to Column 3 in the bottom row B and two further "10"
   symbols are also in the bottom row. It can be seen that there are two "steps" in this
   stair-down corner to corner pattern. The steps are between Columns 1 and 2 and 2 and
   3, the stair-down corner to corner pattern 405 extends from the left most column
25 (Column 1) all the way to the right most column (Column 5).
             Figure 9 illustrates a further stair-down corner to corner combination of "10"
   symbols, but this time three of the "10" symbols lie on the C row (Columns 2, 3, 4).
   This pattern is referenced by reference numeral 406. In this pattern there are also two
   steps, the first step being between Columns 1 and 2 and the second step being between
30 Columns 4 and 5.
             Figure 10 illustrates a "stair-up corner to corner" pattern 407 where the Turtle
   ("Tu") symbol extends from BI, steps up to T3 and finishes at T5.

                                                 - 17
             Figure 11 illustrates a "stair-left-right" combination of Tu symbols, referenced
   by reference numeral 408. In this example the pattern does not extend from corner to
   corner of the row/column array. There is still, however, a step in the pattern between
   Columns 1 and 2. The stair combination does extend from the left most Column 1 to
 5 the right most Column 5.
             Figure 12 shows a stair-up pattern 409 which extends from BI to T3. This
   pattern does not extend from left to right of the column/row array, ending at Column 3.
   It does include steps between Columns 1 and 2 and Columns 2 and 3, respectively.
             Figure 13 shows a stair-down pattern which starts at T1, and ends at B4.
10           Figure 14 illustrates a further stair-up pattern, starting at B2 and ending at B4.
             It can be seen that some of the patterns do not extend all the way across the
   reel display.
             It will be appreciated that other stair patterns (patterns including steps between
   the symbols) may be applied than only those illustrated in the drawings.
15           The combination of symbols may be any combination of symbols.                 In the
   above embodiments, it is shown as being a pattern of the same symbol combination.
   Different symbols could form a combination, however. For example, in poker the hand
   Ace, King, Queen, Jack, Ten, may form a winning combination. Any arrangement or
   combination of symbols may be utilised, as determined by the game designer.
20           In this embodiment, a chance to win a prize based on a stair feature is
   dependent on a trigger condition. The stair feature is therefore an extra feature in
   addition to play of a base game (which may, in this embodiment, have traditional win
   lines that a player may bet credit on). Triggers for the feature may include the amount
   of credit bet by a player, a particular combination of symbols or scatter of symbols
25 being spun up in the base game, a particular amount of waiting activity, player tracking
   information, a random event, or any other trigger. It may be based on a combination of
   these criteria.
             Once the trigger condition is satisfied, the player is able to play a game for a
   stair feature. This may be termed, for example, a "win on the stairs" feature, for player
30 entertainment.

                                               - 18
   Example ]
             In one example of how this embodiment may be implemented, any prize on the
   stair may pay double the usual prize regardless of whether the player has purchased the
 5 lines e.g. the player buys 5 lines in a base game. The stair feature is triggered. In this
   example, the stair feature triggers a series of free games (e.g. 5) during which the reels
   will be spun and during which wins will be paid on one or more stair features (which
   stair features are paid depends upon game designer choice). Any prize on a stair will
   pay double the usual prize regardless of whether the player has purchased the lines.
10 The second free game provides 5 Kings in a stair combination. The player wins the
   prize for five Kings which for example equals 100 x 2 (doubling the prize) equals 200
   credits. In another game, the player may buy a hundred lines in the standard game, and
   then the feature is triggered. Again the feature is 5 free games and the second game has
   five Kings on a stair pattern which is also on a purchased line. The player is paid for
15 the purchased line which equals 100 credits and also paid for the stair prize which
   equals 2 x 100, so a total prize of 300 credits.
             In the above example, it can be seen how a player can obtain additional prizes
   when the gaming system utilises the stair feature.
20 Example 2
             In this example, during a series of feature games, prizes are only paid if a
   symbol combination is in a stair layout. In the main game, the player pays credit on
   100 lines, and the feature of 5 free games is triggered. In the first game, there are no
25 symbols in a stair layout. Second game 3 Aces in a stair layout (50 credits won). Third
   game, no symbols in a stair layout. Fourth game, 3 Queens in a stair layout and 3 Jacks
   in a stair layout (wins 40 credits with the Queens and 30 credits for the Jacks). In the
   fifth game, 4 Kings in a stair layout, win 250 credits.
             In a variation on this embodiment, the game controller is arranged to adjust the
30 position in the pattern of at least one of the symbols in the pattern, in order to vary the
   pattern.   In one embodiment, a stair pattern may be adjusted to a line pattern, for
   example.     Such an example is illustrated in Figure 15.       Figure 15A shows that a

                                                - 19
   stair-down pattern has been spun up on the reels (in this example four "Q" symbols). In
   this example game, the stair-down pattern may not be the winning combination per se.
   Instead, a reel nudge is performed as indicated by arrows 410 to bring all four             Q
   symbols onto the top line T. This is now a winning line combination.
 5           In one embodiment, the game controller 300 is arranged to perform the reel
   nudge automatically. In an alternative embodiment, a player may be required to operate
   a player interface to actuate the nudge. This may require some minimal amount of skill
   on the part of the player (to make sure they nudge the reels to get the proper line
   combinations), which may increase entertainment.
10           Figures 16 to 18 illustrate a further non-linear pattern that may be generated by
   a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. This type
   of pattern is termed a "pyramid combination".          In this embodiment, in a pyramid
   combination the "base" of the pyramid comprises at least two symbols which are
   positioned on the bottom line B (normal pyramid) or top line T (inverted pyramid). The
15 top of the pyramid is then formed by other symbols in positions joining with the base
   symbols.
             Figure 16 shows a "flattened" pyramid 450 including five Turtle symbols. The
   base symbols of the pyramid are at positions BI and B5. The top of the pyramid is
   formed by three symbols in the C row, Columns 2, 3 and 4.
20           Referring to Figure 17d, a pyramid with a peak is shown. The pyramid is
   formed by five A symbols, one of them being in T3 position, two of the symbols being
   in C2 and C4 respectively and the base symbols being at BI and B5 respectively.
             Figure 17a shows a pyramid which comprises only three symbols, the base
   symbols being at BI and B3 and the top symbol being at C2. Figures 17b, 17c, 17e and
25 17f show different variations of pyramids and flattened pyramids (Figure 17e is the
   same flattened pyramid pattern as Figure 16). It will be appreciated that other pyramid
   patterns than shown here may be formed.
             Figure 18 shows examples of inverted pyramid patterns. Figure 18d shows a
   full inverted pyramid from left to right of the reels (across all the reels), comprising five
30 A symbols. The base A symbols are at TI and T5 respectively.
             Figure 18e shows an inverted flattened pyramid with the base symbols at TI
   and T5 and the top of the pyramid being three A symbols at C2, C3 and C4.

                                                - 20
             It will be appreciated that other variations of inverted pyramids may be created
   in addition to those illustrated in Figure 18.
             As with the stair feature discussed above, the gaming system may require a
   further adjustment to the pyramid structure to create a straight win line before awarding
 5 a prize, in one variation. In other variations prizes may be awarded on the basis of the
   occurrence of the pyramid patterns per se.
             Figures 19 to 21 show pyramid patterns where subsequent adjustments in the
   form of reel nudges are carried out to create straight win lines.
             Figure 19a shows an inverted pyramid comprising three A symbols. A nudge
10 of the middle A symbol from C2 to B2 results in a straight line on the T2 line of three A
   symbols (Figure 19b).       Alternatively, a nudge of two A symbols in TI and T3,
   respectively, results in a straight win line on the centre line C (Figure 19c).
             Referring to Figure 20, Figure 20a shows a flattened pyramid in rows 1 to 4,
   with the base symbols being at BI and B4 and the top symbols being at C2 and C3.
15 Again, two nudges are available if the feature is to be adjusted to a straight win line.
   Nudging the base symbols upwards results in a straight win line on the C line, as
   illustrated in Figure 20b.    Alternatively, nudging the two top symbols on the C line
   downwards to the bottom line B, results in a straight win line on the B line as shown in
   Figure 20c. Providing alternative possibilities for nudging the symbols may result in
20 increased player entertainment, particularly if a player has, for example, varied his bet
   on each of the pay lines (i.e. bet more on one pay line than the other). As discussed
   above, the player may also be required to operate a player interface in order to actuate
   the nudge, further increasing the entertainment value. Alternatively, the gaming system
   may operate the reel nudge.
25           Referring to Figure 21, this shows a flattened pyramid across reels 1 to 5, with
   the base symbols at BI and B5 respectively and the other symbols being in the 2, 3 and
   4 rows on the C line. Again, two nudges are available to form a straight win line.
   Either the base symbols are nudged upwards (Figure 21c), or the top symbols are
   nudged downwards (Figure 21b).
30           Another feature that may be implemented by a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention is generation by the game controller 300
   of a character which may move along the non-linear pattern. Figure 22 shows a reel

                                               -21
   display 400 which has spun up a stair-up corner to corner pattern of Turtles 420. A
   graphical character in the form of a cartoon Figure 421 is represented running up the
   stair pattern formed by the pattern of symbols 420. In so doing, the display 400 may
   represent the character 421 as spilling money, and credits are awarded to the player for
 5 this win. This provides an entertaining and interesting graphical display to maintain the
   interest of the player.
             It will be appreciated that other types of graphical characters may be used in
   variations on this theme, to increase player interest. The graphical character may be
   any character e.g. a representation of an animal, a human being, a cartoon character or
10 any other character or item.
             In an embodiment of the invention, a line may be displayed on the display 400
   in order to clearly identify the non-linear pattern.      One such line 430 is shown in
   Figure 12 and it can be seen it clearly identifies the step shape in the step pattern 420.
   Similar lines marking out non-linear patterns are also shown in Figures 8, 9, 10, 11 and
15 12.
             The following example is of a game variation which utilises a reel nudge
   feature.
   Example 3
20
             The game relates to a conventional 5 x 3 visible reel display paying only three
   lines, top line T, centre line C and bottom line B. This type of game is very common.
   The prizes are defined as only being awarded on a pay line and the player must
   purchase the pay line. To play the base game, therefore, the player merely purchases
25 the pay lines (betting credit against the pay lines the player wishes to back). In order to
   trigger the feature, the player may also place an ante-bet (further credit bet) to purchase
   reel nudges if pyramid patterns are spun up. In this example, the player bets $1 per pay
   line and $1 for the ante-bet, giving a total bet of $4. The player spins the reels and five
   Aces appear in a pyramid pattern.       The machine automatically nudges the five Aces
30 onto the centre line and the player wins the prize on the centre line of the 5 Aces. If the
   player had not purchased the ante-bet for the pyramid feature before this, they would
   not have won.

                                              -22
             It will be appreciated that there are many other variations than the three
   examples given above of games that may be played utilising pyramid and/or stair
   features, with or without reel nudges, with or without graphical characters appearing.
             The non-linear patterns used with embodiments of the present invention are
 5 not limited to pyramid or stair patterns. Other non-linear patterns may be used.
             In an embodiment, a plurality of symbols in a single column may be used
   within a non-linear pattern. This embodiment may be particularly useful for reel games
   where there are stacked symbols within the reels (i.e. two or more symbols of the same
   type within a single reel).
10           Referring to Figure 25, a display of an embodiment of the invention is shown,
   which utilises stacked symbols and reels 1 and 4 and 2 and 3 to form a rectangular
   non-linear pattern (the A symbols).
             Figure 26 shows a rhombus.
             Figure 27 shows a hexagon.
15           Figure 28 shows a triangle of symbols, also utilising stacked symbols.
             It will be appreciated that other patterns may be made, utilising stacked
   symbols, or not utilising stacked symbols.
             In the above embodiments, the symbols are shown as being the same symbols.
   They may not be, the pattern may be made up of different symbols, according to game
20 rules.
             A game playing process in accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention will now be summarised with reference to Figure 23. Figure 23 relates to an
   embodiment of a gaming system where a base game is played, for example, utilising
   conventional line combinations of symbols, and a feature game may be triggered
25 wherein at least one game outcome is a stair and/or pyramid combination during play of
   a series of feature games.
             At step 701 the base game is played and the symbol selector 302 selects the
   symbols for play of the base game and the symbols are displayed.          At step 703 an
   outcome of the base game is determined. This may be a win outcome, in which the
30 case a win result 704 is generated and the requisite prize is awarded. The win result
   may be based on conventional combinations of symbols in conventional pay line
   patterns. The system then returns to step 701 for the player to choose whether or not to

                                                - 23
   play the game again.
             If at step 703 the outcome is a lose outcome, the player may again decide
   whether to play the game again.
             In this embodiment, there is a further outcome of the base game, which is
 5 triggering of the feature game. As discussed above, the feature game may be triggered
   by any trigger, including combinations of symbols spun up in the base game. If the
   outcome is a trigger feature, at step 705 the trigger feature is generated.
             In this embodiment, the trigger feature results in play of five free feature
   games (note that there may be any number of feature games and the invention is not
10 limited to just five). Each feature game can be played for a win of a prize depending
   upon a stair and/or pyramid outcome being spun up.            This is similar to Example 1
   discussed above.
             At step 706 the symbols are selected for the feature game. At step 707 it is
   determined whether a stair or pyramid feature that may win has been spun up and at
15 step 708 the outcome is determined.        This may include a win because of a stair or
   pyramid feature being spun up. At step 709 it is determined whether the feature is
   complete (i.e. have all free games been played?).        If NO, a further feature game is
   played. If YES then the player has the choice whether or not to play the base game
   again.
20           Referring to Figure 24, the process of playing a game which an ante-bet is
   required in order to trigger a stair and/or pyramid feature, will now be described.
             At step 801, the player bets credit on a base game and also has the opportunity
   to make an ante-bet for a stair/pyramid feature. At step 802, the game controller 300
   determines whether an ante-bet has been made.             If NO, at step 803 the symbol
25 selector 302 selects the symbols for the base game as normal and at step 804 the game
   outcome is determined.
             If at step 802 it is determined that an ante-bet has been made, at step 805 a
   determination is made as to which feature the player has made the ante-bet for. For
   example, depending upon the game design, the player may be offered a number of
30 different non-linear patterns to bet against e.g. a number of stair features and a number
   of pyramid features. At step 805, the game controller determines which features have
   been bet against and therefore which features will win a prize.             In an alternative

                                              - 24
   embodiment, only one feature may be available for a prize (e.g. one particular stair or
   pyramid feature) and therefore no determination need be made at step 805.
             Following any determination at step 805, the symbols are selected at 803 and
   the outcome determination at 804 takes into account any non-linear pattern outcome
 5 authorized by the ante-bet 802.
             In the above embodiments, the non-linear pattern is played as a feature game.
   The invention is not limited to this. In alternative embodiments, non-linear patterns
   such as pyramids and/or stair combinations or any other non-linear pattern, may form
   part of a base game, not a separate feature. For example, a pyramid combination or
10 stair combination may be a win line against which a player can bet credit in a base
   game.
             The above embodiments give a number of examples of games and a number of
   examples of gaming processes (particularly in relation to Figures 23 and 24). The game
   processes and game examples are not limited to those described. It will be appreciated
15 that there may be many variations in which a stair and/or pyramid combination or other
   non-linear patterns may be utilized to provide additional entertainment to a player.
             In the above described embodiments, the display emulates a plurality of reels.
   In an alternative embodiment, the symbol selection may be implemented as actual reels
   driven by a stepper motor. Any additional graphics, such as a graphical character
20 moving along the non-linear pattern, may be provided as a video overlay to the actual
   stepper display, or provided in another way. In another embodiment, the display may
   not emulate reels but merely show the selected symbols in a non-reel format
   e.g. presenting them as emulated playing cards, or other representations in the series of
   rows and columns.
25           It will be appreciated that the above described embodiments may be
   implemented by utilizing program code.         The program code may be supplied in a
   number of ways, for example on a computer readable medium, such as a disk or a
   memory, or as a data signal (for example, by downloading it from the server).
             In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
30 except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to

                                             - 25
  preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
  invention.
             It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
  and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
5 embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
  described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
  illustrative and not restrictive.

                                               - 26
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A gaming system, comprising a game controller arranged to control play of a
   base game and a feature game, and a display arranged to display a representation of
 5 play of the base game and the feature game, the game controller being arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of the base game;
             control the display to display the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows
   and columns;
             determine an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
10 symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
   winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns of the display and that aligns
   with a win line from a plurality of activated win lines of the base game;
             generate a feature game after the base game in response to a trigger condition;
15 and
             determine an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a non-linear
   pattern of symbols displayed in the fixed rows and columns of the display during the
   feature game is a winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the plurality
   of activated win lines of the base game, wherein the non-linear pattern comprises two or
20 more symbols within a column.
   2.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern
   comprises a stair combination.
25 3.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 2, wherein the stair combination
   comprises a stair-down combination.
   4.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 2 or Claim 3, wherein the stair
   combination comprises a stair-up combination.
30
   5.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern
   comprises a pyramid combination.

                                               - 27
   6.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 5, wherein the pyramid
   combination comprises a normal pyramid pattern.
   7.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 5, wherein the pyramid
 5 combination comprises an inverted pyramid pattern.
   8.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the game is a reel game
   including reels with stacked symbols, and the two or more symbols are stacked symbols
   on a reel.
10
   9.        A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern is
   a rectangle.
   10.       A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern is
15 a rhombus.
   11.       A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern is
   a hexagon.
20 12.       A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern is
   a triangle.
   13.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to adjust the position of at least one of the symbols in a
25 non-linear pattern outcome to result in a line pattern.
   14.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to control the display to display a graphical character
   moving over the non-linear pattern of symbols.
30
   15.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the trigger condition is that a player must make an ante-bet of credit.

                                               - 28
   16.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the game controller and display are implemented as a standalone gaming machine.
   17.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein the
 5 game controller and display are implemented by a gaming server and gaming client
   architecture.
   18.       A method of gaming comprising:
             selecting a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of a base game;
10           displaying the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows and columns of a
   display;
             determining an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
   symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
15 winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns and that aligns with a win line
   from a plurality of predetermined win lines of the base game;
             playing a feature game after the base in response to a predetermined trigger
   condition being satisfied; and
             determining an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a
20 non-linear pattern of symbols in the fixed rows and columns of the display during the
   feature game is a non-linear winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the
   plurality of predetermined win lines of the base game, wherein the non-linear pattern
   includes a plurality of symbols in one column.
25 19.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern
   comprises a stair combination.
   20.       A method in accordance with Claim 19, wherein the stair combination
   comprises a stair-down combination.
30
   21.       A method in accordance with Claim 19, wherein the stair combination
   comprises a stair-up combination.

                                               - 29
   22.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern
   comprises a pyramid combination.
   23.       A method in accordance with Claim 22, wherein the pyramid combination
 5 comprises a normal pyramid pattern.
   24.       A method in accordance with Claim 22, wherein the pyramid combination
   comprises an inverted pyramid pattern.
10 25.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the game is a reel game, and
   the plurality of symbols are stacked symbols within a reel.
   26.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern is a
   rectangle.
15
   27.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern is a
   rhombus.
   28.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern is a
20 hexagon.
   29.       A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear pattern is a
   triangle.
25 30.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 18 to 29, further comprising
   adjusting the non-linear pattern to result in a line pattern.
   31.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 18 to 30, further comprising
   displaying graphical character moving over the non-linear pattern of symbols.
30 32.       A method in accordance with any one of Claims 18 to 31, wherein the
   pre-determined trigger condition is placement of an ante-bet specifying a particular
   non-linear pattern, by a player.

                                               - 30
   33.      A computer program comprising instructions for controlling a computer to
   implement a gaming system in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 17.
   34.      A computer readable medium providing a computer program in accordance
 5 with Claim 33.
   35.      A data signal comprising a computer program in accordance with Claim 33.
   36.      A game controller for a gaming system comprising a display, the game
10 controller comprising a processor arranged to:
            select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for play of a base game;
            control the display to display the selected plurality of symbols in fixed rows
   and columns;
            determine an outcome of the base game based on the selected plurality of
15 symbols in the rows and columns, wherein a winning outcome of the base game is
   determined in response to the selected plurality of symbols forming a predefined
   winning pattern of symbols that spans across all columns and that aligns with a win line
   from a plurality of activated win lines of the base game;
            generate a feature game after the base game in response to a trigger condition;
20 and
            determine an outcome of the feature game depending on whether a non-linear
   pattern of symbols in the fixed rows and columns of the display during the feature game
   is a winning pattern of symbols that is distinguishable from the plurality of activated
   win lines of the base game, wherein the non-linear pattern comprises two or more
25 symbols within a column.
   37.      A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
   comprises a stair combination.
30 38.      A game controller in accordance with Claim 37, wherein the stair combination
   comprises a stair-up combination.

                                             -31
   39.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 37, wherein the stair combination
   comprises a stair-down combination.
   40.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
 5 comprises a pyramid combination.
   41.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 40, wherein the pyramid
   combination comprises a normal pyramid pattern.
10 42.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 40, wherein the pyramid
   combination comprises an inverted pyramid pattern.
   43.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the game is a reel
   game, and the two or more symbols are stacked symbols on a reel.
15
   44.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
   is a rectangle.
   45.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
20 is a rhombus.
   46.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
   is a hexagon.
25 47.       A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
   is a triangle.
   48.       A game controller in accordance with any one of Claims 36 to 47, arranged to
   adjust the position of at least one of the symbols in a non-linear pattern outcome to
30 result in a line pattern.
   49.       A game controller in accordance with any one of Claims 36 to 48, arranged to

                                              - 32
   control the display of a graphical character moving over the non-linear pattern of
   symbols.
   50.      A game controller in accordance with any one of Claims 36 to 49, wherein the
 5 trigger condition is that a player must make an ante-bet of credit.
   51.      A computer program, comprising instructions for controlling a computer to
   implement a game controller in accordance with any one of Claims 36 to 50.
10 52.      A computer readable medium, providing a computer program in accordance
   with Claim 51.
   53.      A data signal, comprising a computer program in accordance with Claim 51.
15 54.      A gaming system in accordance with Claim 5, wherein the pyramid
   combination is a flattened pyramid pattern.
   55.      A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the non-linear pattern
   does not extend across all the columns of the display.
20
   56.      A method of gaming in accordance with Claim 22, wherein the pyramid
   combination is a flattened pyramid pattern.
   57.      A method of gaming in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the non-linear
25 pattern does not extend across the columns of the display.
   58.      A game controller in accordance with Claim 40, wherein the pyramid
   combination is a flattened pyramid pattern.
30 59.      A game controller in accordance with Claim 36, wherein the non-linear pattern
   does not extend across all the columns of the display.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                      1/16

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2
                                      2/16

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4   Figure 3
                                                 3/16

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                                      4/16

                                      5/16
<removed-date>             GAME CONTROLLER      300
                     SYMBOL                                     303
                                           SYMBOL STORE
                    SELECTOR
<removed-apn>
              302
                     OUTCOME                  DISPLAY           301
                    GENERATOR               CONTROLLER
              304
                                Figure 6
                                                          400
                                                                      T
                                                                      C
                                                                      B
                                                    401
                                Figure 7

                                       6/16
<removed-date>
                        405                   400
                    1     2        3          4           5
                                                              T
<removed-apn>
                                                              C
                                                              B
                        Figure 8              430
                    1     2        3          4           5
                                                              T
              406                                             C
                                                              B
                                                    430
                              Figure 9

                                           7/16
<removed-date>
                                                                400
                                           430
                     1       2         3          4             5
                                                                          T
<removed-apn>
                                                                          C
                                                                          B
              407
                                 Figure 10
                                                          430
                         1       2         3          4             5
                                                                              T
                                                                              C
                                                                              B
               408
                                                                    400
                                 Figure 11

                                                      8/16
<removed-date>
                        1        2                3          4         5
                                                                               T
              430
                                                                               C
<removed-apn>
                                                                               B
              409                         Figure 12
                                                                         400
                    1       2         3       4       5
               T
               C                                             Figure 13
               B
                                400
                                                      1      2    3        4   5
                                             T
                                             C
                        Figure 14
                                             B
                                                                 400

                                           9/16
<removed-date>
                                                  410           400
                      1   2        3          4         5
              T
              C                                             (a)
<removed-apn>
              B
                      1   2        3          4         5       400
                  T
                  C                                         (b)
                  B
                              Figure 15
                                                                      400
                      1   2            3           4        5
              T                                                        450
              C
              B
                              Figure 16

                            10/16
<removed-date>   (a)                    (d)
<removed-apn>
              (b)                    (e)
              (c)                    (f)
                    Figure 17
              (a)                   (d)
              (b)                   (e)
              (c)                   (f)
                    Figure 18

                                  11/16
<removed-date>
                                          (b)
                    (a)
                                          (c)
<removed-apn>
                          Figure 19
                                          (b)
              (a)
                                          (c)
                          Figure 20

                            12/16
<removed-date>   (a)
                                          (b)
<removed-apn>
                                          (c)
                    Figure 21
                     421                   400
                                          420
                                    430
                    Figure 22

                                13/16
<removed-date>
                                              701
              PLAY         SELECT              PLAY
                           SYMBOLS
                                        703
                                                               704
                          DETERMINE
<removed-apn>
              LOSE                       WIN           WIN
                           OUTCOME
                                                      RESULT
                           OF BASE
                             GAME
                                                705
                       TRIGGER FEATURE
                                                706
                       SELECT SYMBOLS
                                                707
                          DETERMINE
                        STAIR/PYRAMID
                                              708
                          DETERMINE
                           OUTCOME
                 YES       FEATURE              NO
                          COMPLETE?
                                         709
                        Figure 23

                       14/
                       14/16
<removed-date>
                                     801
                BET CREDIT
<removed-apn>
                               802
                ANTE BET?
                     YES
                                      805
                                            NO
                DETERMINE
              FEATURE BET ON
                                      803
              SELECT SYMBOLS
                                     804
                DETERMINE
                 OUTCOME
              Figure 24

                   15/16
<removed-date>
              Figure 25
<removed-apn>
              Figure 26
              Figure 27

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 28
                                  16/16

