ABSTRACT
A detonator connector for use in a blasting system which includes a communication
structure for use in communicating with a blasting appliance, formations for engagement
with at least a part of a trunk line which, in use, extends to at least one detonator, and
an element which, in response to a first signal received via the communication structure
from the blasting appliance, emits a second signal, via the trunk line to the detonator.

                        1/2
                  76
                      74                  10
80   hR
      T/RT
   CiRCUIT
    78        50                             60
                       26                    6
        BLASTING                               30
       APPLIANCE                  66
                     1         28
           16      14                  /2
                                    424
                        24           /
                          20
                       ~22
                     70      FIGURE /
                    - 68
                 18

                                              1
                                DETONATOR CONNECTOR
  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
  [0001] This invention relates to a connector for use in a blasting system which includes
  one or more detonators.
5 [0002] A detonator can be initiated in different ways.    In one approach an electrical
  signal propagated on conductive wires is used to deliver energy to a detonator and that
  energy is used to fire the detonator when needed. In a different technique an electrical
  signal is used in a control mode to cause the release of energy stored in a suitable
  device (e.g. a battery) on the detonator, and that energy release is used for firing
J purposes.
  [0003] A shock tube can also be used for firing a detonator. However, a shock tube
  does not have a capability to transfer control or communication signals between a
  blasting machine and the detonator, and some additional arrangement is required for
  this purpose.
5 [0004] An object of the present intention is to provide a detonator connector which can
  be adapted for use with different communication and firing arrangements in a detonator
  system.

                                                 2
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0005] The invention provides a connector for use in a blasting system which includes
  one or more detonators, the connector including a body and, in or on the body, a
  communication structure for use in communicating directly or indirectly with a blasting
5 appliance, formations for engagement with at least a part of a trunk line which, in use,
  extends to at least one detonator, and an element which, in response to a first signal
  received via the communication structure from the blasting appliance, emits a second
  signal, via the trunk line to the detonator.
  [0006] The blasting appliance may be a blasting machine, a tagger or any similar
J mechanism. Communication via the communication structure may be done wirelessly
  for example using Bluetooth or a similar near-zone or field communication facility.
  [0007] The second signal may be emitted at any suitable frequency e.g. in the infrared
  range. Preferably the emitted second signal is in the visible spectrum. The element
  may be a light-emitting device such as a light-emitting diode.         The aspects are
5 exemplary only and non-limiting.
  [0008] When the connector is configured to work in the visible spectrum the trunk line
  may include a fibre-optic cable and the emitted second signal may be directed to an end
  of the fibre-optic cable located in or on the body.
  [0009] Communication between the blasting appliance e.g. a tagger or a blasting
0 machine and the communication structure may be effected using an interconnecting

                                                3
  cable or conductor which transfers an electrical signal from the blasting appliance to the
  communication structure; or wirelessly, i.e. without an intervening physical link between
  the communication structure and the blasting appliance using, say, Bluetooth
  techniques. The nature of the communication structure then varies accordingly. In one
5 form of the invention a bus or harness connects the blasting appliance to the
  communication structure. In this case the communication structure may then include
  contacts for electrical engagement with conductors in the bus. These contacts may be
  provided in the form of insulation displacement contacts.        The light-emitting diode
  referred to may be connected to the conductors directly or via suitable connectors.
J [0010] The connector may be configured to work in a reverse mode, ie. light from a
  fibre-optic cable in the trunk line, impinging on the element, may initiate the generation
  of a communication signal which is directed to the blasting appliance.
  [0011] The trunk line, in one embodiment of the invention, may include at least one
  fibre-optic cable and a shock tube.           The fibre-optic cable may be used for
5 communication and control purposes between the blasting appliance and the detonator,
  and the shock tube may be used for firing the detonator.
  [0012] The body of the connector may include at least first and second parts which are
  relatively movable between an open position at which the communication structure and
  the formations are accessible and a closed position at which the communication
0 structure and formations are shrouded or covered.

                                               4
  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [0013] The invention is further described by way of example with reference to the
  accompanying drawings in which:
  Figure 1 shows the use of a connector according to the invention in a detonating
5 system, and
  Figure 2 shows the connector of Figure 1, on a large scale.
  DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
  [0014] Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings illustrates a connector 10, according to
  the invention, which is included in a blasting system 12. Figure 2 shows the connector
J 10 on a larger scale.
  [0015] The blasting system 12 incorporates a bus 14, a blasting appliance 16, e.g. a
  blasting machine and a plurality of detonators 18, only one of which is illustrated. The
  detonator is located in a blast hole 20 which contains explosive 22, as is known in the
  art. The detonator 18 is connected to a trunk line 24 and the trunk line is connected to
5 the bus 14 by means of the connector 10. Other detonators (not shown) in the system
  are similarly connected via the bus 14 and respective trunk lines to the blasting
  appliance 16. The detonators are in any appropriate configuration - an aspect which is
  not important to an understanding of the present invention.

                                                5
  [0016] In this embodiment of the invention the bus 14 includes a pair of insulated
  electrical conductors 26 and 28 respectively which are electrically connected to the
  blasting appliance 16.
  [0017] The trunk line 24 includes two components, viz. a first component which
5 comprises a fibre-optic cable 30, and a second component which comprises a shock
  tube 32.    The components 30 and 32 can be integrally formed, ie. physically linked
  together (as shown), or can be separately provided.
  [0018] The shock tube 32 is coupled by any appropriate means, not shown, to the
  blasting appliance 16 or to any other suitable firing initiator.
J [0019] The connector 10 has a body 38 which includes a base 40 and a lid 42 which is
  hingedly connected along a line 44 to the base 40. Positioned in the base 40 are two
  terminals in the form of insulation displacement contacts 46 and 48 respectively. The lid
  42 can be opened (as shown) so that the conductor 26 can be electrically coupled to the
  contact 46, and so that the conductor 28 can be electrically coupled to the contact 48.
5 [0020] A light-emitting diode 50, which is mounted to the base 40, has two leads 52 and
  54 which, under factory conditions, are electrically connected to the contacts 46 and 48
  respectively.    A light-emitting surface 60 of the light-emitting diode 50 is positioned to
  face towards engagement formations 62 on the base 40. The fibre-optic cable 30 can
  be coupled to these formations 62, under field conditions, so that an exposed end 66 of
0 the fibre-optic cable 30, at the base 40, directly opposes the light-emitting surface 60 of
  the light-emitting diode 50.

                                                  6
  [0021] If an electrical signal, which could be a communication or a control signal,
  suitably configured, is impressed on the conductors 26 and 28 by the blasting appliance
  16, then a voltage pulse is applied to the leads 52 and 54 and the light-emitting diode 50
  is caused to emit light. The emitted light is in a suitably encoded form. In this way a
5 control or communication signal which is emitted by the light-emitting diode 50 is caused
  to impinge directly on the exposed end 66 of the fibre-optic cable. The signal, captured
  by the fibre-optic cable 30, is then transferred to the detonator 18 where it is employed,
  in an appropriate manner, for control or communication purposes.
  [0022] Typically the blasting appliance is a tagger, or a suitable device which wirelessly,
D e.g. by using Bluetooth techniques, communicates with the connector.
  [0023] If the detonator 18 has an energy source, e.g. in the form of a battery 68, then
  that source can be used to power a light-emitting device, e.g. an LED 70, in the
  detonator 18. A communication or control signal can then be transmitted via the fibre
  optic cable 30 to the light-emitting diode 50 in the connector 10. The reception of the
5 light signal by the diode 50 causes an electrical pulse to appear at the leads 52 and 54
  and this is detected by circuitry at the blasting appliance 16.
  [0024] The signal which is impressed on the bus 14 is encoded with an identity, e.g. an
  address of a targeted detonator which can thus be uniquely addressed.                 This
  characteristic is necessary for detonator programming purposes.

                                                7
  [0025] The firing of the detonator 18 can be achieved by means of a signal which is
  generated by ignition of the shock tube 32 and which is then guided to the detonator 18
  by the shock tube 32.
  [0026] The light-emitting diode 50 could be mounted to a printed circuit board (PCB),
5 which is located within or on the connector body 38. The use of a PCB facilitates the
  incorporation of other components, which could be used for control, communication, or
  signal processing or conditioning purposes, in the connector 10. For example, as shown
  in an inset drawing in Figure 1, a PCB 74 could be mounted to the connector body 38.
  The PCB 74 has, fixed to it, a battery 76 and a circuit 78 which, responsive to a signal
D from the blasting appliance 16, powers the LED 50 which can then, for example, relay a
  signal to the detonator 18.      The circuit 78 could, in one embodiment, include a
  transmitter/receiver unit 80 which is responsive to a signal, originated in the blasting
  appliance 16, which is transmitted at a radio frequency, for example through the use of
  a Bluetooth or other near-field communication system. A corresponding signal at an
5 optical frequency is then transmitted by the LED 50 via the fibre-optic cable 30 to the
  detonator 18. In the return direction an optical signal from the detonator travels via the
  fibre-optic cable 30 to the unit 80 which is on surface and a radio signal is then
  transmitted from the unit 80 to the blasting appliance or to another appropriate device.
  [0027] It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives       (eg
0 comprises, comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be inclusive of
  features to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence of any additional
  features unless otherwise stated or implied.

                                               8
  [0028] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
  as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the
  common general knowledge.
  [0029] It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted
5 in its use to the particular application described. Neither is the present invention
  restricted in its preferred embodiment with regard to the particular elements and/or
  features described or depicted herein. It will be appreciated that various modifications
  can be made without departing from the principles of the invention. Therefore, the
  invention should be understood to include all such modifications in its scope.

                                            9
CLAIMS
1.  A connector for use in a blasting system which includes one or more detonators,
    the connector including a body and, in or on the body, a communication structure
    for receiving a signal from, and for transmitting a signal to, a blasting appliance,
    formations for engagement with at least a part of a trunk line which, in use, extends
    to at least one detonator, and a light-emitting device which, in response to a first
    signal received via the communication structure from the blasting appliance, emits
    a second signal in the visible spectrum, via the trunk line to the detonator.
2.  A connector according to claim 1 wherein, in use, a bus connects the blasting
    appliance to the communication structure and wherein the communication structure
    includes contacts for electrical engagement with conductors in the bus, and the
    light-emitting device is connected to the contacts.
3.  A connector according to claim 1 wherein the first signal is a radio signal, and
    wherein the communication structure includes a communication unit which, in
    response to receiving the radio signal, causes the light emitting device to emit the
    second signal.
4.  A connector according to claim 3 wherein the blasting appliance is a tagger.
5.  A connector according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the formations are
    engageable with a fibre-optic cable which is included in the trunk line and which
    transmits the second signal to the detonator.

                                          10
6. A connector according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the trunk line includes a
   shock tube.
7. A connector according to claim 5 wherein the communication structure in response
   to an optical signal transmitted by the detonator transmits a signal to the blasting
   appliance.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
