Abstract
A furniture item 10 comprises a main first section 12 and a smaller second section 14 attached
to the first section 12. The first section 12 is generally a polyhedron, substantially shaped as
a triangular pyramid. The first section 12 comprises a front wall 20, two side walls 22 and a
base wall 24. The walls 20 to 24 of the first section 12 are made from flexible material, such
as fabric, nylon or neoprene. The walls 20 to 24 of the first section 12 together define a hollow
first internal cavity 28 which is accessible via the closure means 26. The first internal cavity
28 in use is filled with a suitable material such as sand to form the in use filled configuration
of the first section 12. The filler material can then be removed for packing and transport of the
furniture item 10.
The second section 14 is a smaller polyhedron, having a triangular face wall 40 and three
rectangular joining panels 42. The second section 14 is positioned at an upper part of the
front wall 20 of the first section 12. The second section 14 extends from an apex of the front
wall 20 and downwardly to about a mid-section thereof.
An inflatable triangular pillow insert 48 is provided and is shaped and sized to be received in
the second internal cavity 44.

10    42        41/2            40     42
                        14
   12    (a)2
                                          28
   20 ()     42  24           22   (26
                     FIGURE 1

                                                    1
FURNITURE ITEM
Field of the Invention
[1]       The present invention relates to a furniture item, in particular to an outdoor furniture
item but is not limited to this use.
Background of the Invention
[2]       The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[3]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[4]       According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a furniture item comprising:
          a main first section having flexible walls and defining a first internal cavity, wherein the
first internal cavity can be filled with filler material in use; and
          a second section having flexible walls and defining a second internal cavity, wherein
the second internal cavity can be filled with filler material in use,
          wherein the second section is disposed in a wall of the first section
[5]       Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[6]       Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[7]       Figure 1 shows (a) front left perspective view, (b) front right perspective view, (c) front
view and (d) rear view of a furniture item according to a preferred embodiment of the present
invention;
[8]       Figure 2 shows (a) a side opening for the second section of the furniture item and (b)
inflatable insert for the second section; and
[9]       Figure 3 shows the item in an example use.
Description of Embodiments
[10]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.

                                                  2
[11]     Figure 1 shows a furniture item 10 according to a preferred embodiment of the present
invention. The furniture item 10 comprises a main first section 12 and a smaller second section
14 attached to the first section 12.
[12]    The first section 12 is generally a polyhedron, substantially shaped as a tetrahedron
or triangular pyramid. The first section 12 comprises a front wall 20, two side walls 22 and a
base wall 24. The front wall 20 and the side wall 22 are triangular. A front side edge of each
side wall 22 is attached to a respective side edge of the front wall 20 by stitching. Rear side
edges of the side walls 22 are connectable to each other via a closure means 26 which in the
embodiment is a zipper. The zipper 26 can extend substantially the full length of the rear side
edges or partly therealong with the remainder of the rear side edges being permanently
attached. Base edges of the front wall 20 and the side walls 22 are attached to the base wall
24. The base wall 24 in the embodiment is shaped as a semicircle but can also be triangular.
[13]    The walls 20 to 24 of the first section 12 are made from flexible material, such as fabric,
nylon or neoprene. The walls 20 to 24 of the first section 12 together define a hollow first
internal cavity 28 which is accessible via the closure means 26. The first internal cavity 28 in
use is filled with a suitable material such as sand to form the in use filled configuration of the
first section 12. The filler material can then be removed for packing and transport of the
furniture item 10.
[14]    The apex of the front wall 20 and side walls 22 are joined into a ring-shaped opening
29. The opening 29 provides air access to the first internal cavity 28. Additionally, accessories
such as the stalk of a small umbrella can be inserted in use through the opening 29 and
anchored into the sand within the internal cavity 28.
[15]     In the embodiment, the front wall 20 is an isosceles triangle with equal sides. The side
walls 22 are shaped such that the front wall 20 is at an acute angle to allow a user to lean
thereon in use.
[16]    The second section 14 is a smaller polyhedron, having a triangular face wall 40 and
three rectangular joining panels 42. The second section 14 is positioned at an upper part of
the front wall 20 of the first section 12. The second section 14 extends from an apex of the
front wall 20 and downwardly to about a mid-section thereof.
[17]    The face wall 40 is triangular and substantially follows the outline of the front wall 20.
The joining panels 42 join the edges of the face wall 40 to the front wall 20. That is, two joining
panels 42 join side edges of the face wall 40 to the side edges of the front wall 20, and a third
joining panel 42 joins the base edge of the face wall 40 to a mid-portion of the front wall 20.

                                                    3
[18]    The face wall 40, joining panels 42 and the portion of the front wall 20 covered thereby
together form a second internal cavity 44 which is accessible via a second closure means 46
also being a zipper. The zipper 46 is disposed between a side edge of the face wall 40 and a
side joining panel 42.
[19]    An inflatable triangular pillow insert 48 is provided and is shaped and sized to be
received in the second internal cavity 44.
[20]    In use, a user brings the furniture item 10 to the desired location such as the beach,
campground, next to a swimming pool or home. The user then fills the first internal cavity 28
with sand via the rear zipper 26 and the pillow insert 48 is inflated. The furniture item 10 can
then be used by a user similar to a large pillow that props the user up.
[21]    The second section 14 forms a higher pocket which is raised from the front wall of the
main first section 12. The inflatable pillow can then be inserted into the second section 14.
[22]    The furniture item 10 props a user to a desired position which is preferred by many for
reading but also being able to view the surroundings such as when supervising children and
the like at the beach. The raised second section 14 provides a built-in pillow for the user's
head.
[23]    The invention is primarily intended for outdoor use such as on beaches and camping,
but is not limited to this use and can also be used indoors.
[24]    Although a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been described, it will
be apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiment shown.
[25]    For example, the second section can be made into a removable discrete section (by
having its own rear panel) and repositionable along the front wall of the main section, for
example via Velcro attachment. The second section can also be shaped in other ways, such
as being a rectangular prism, semi-circular faor circular. The second section can also include
expandable side joining panels for increasing or decreasing how much the face wall extends
(distance) from the front wall. Additional second sections can also be added to the main
section, for example to the side panels thereof to allow more than one user to use the furniture
item.
[26]    The main section can also be shaped in other ways, such as spherical or pear-shaped.
[27]    The insert for the second section can also be made from mouldable material.
[28]    The main section can also include an inflatable bladder or insert, instead of, or in
addition to, filling with filler material such as sand.

                                                   4
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A furniture item comprising:
    a main first section having flexible walls and defining a first internal cavity, wherein the first
    internal cavity can be filled with filler material in use; and
    a second section having flexible walls and defining a second internal cavity, wherein the
    second internal cavity can be filled with filler material in use,
    wherein the second section is disposed in a wall of the first section.
2. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the first section is a polyhedron.
3. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second section is a polyhedron.
4. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the first section is substantially shaped as a
    tetrahedron.
5. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the first section comprises a front wall, two side walls
    and a base wall.
6. The furniture item of claim 5 wherein the front wall and the side wall are triangular.
7. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the walls of the first section together define the hollow
    first internal cavity which is accessible via a closure means.
8. The furniture item of claim 5 wherein the apex of the front wall and side walls are joined to
    form an opening therebetween.
9. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second section is a smaller polyhedron positioned
    at an upper part of a front wall of the first section.
10. The furniture item of claim 9 wherein the second section extends from an apex of the front
    wall and downwardly to about a mid-section thereof.
11. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second internal cavity is accessible via a second
    closure means.
12. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second internal cavity comprises an inflatable
    pillow insert.
13. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second section is a removable discrete section
    and repositionable along the front wall of the main section
14. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the second section includes expandable side joining
    panels.

                                               5
15. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein additional second sections can be added to the main
    section.
16. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the insert for the second section can be made from
    mouldable material.
17. The furniture item of claim 1 wherein the main section includes an inflatable bladder.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
