                                         ABSTRACT
  A gaming machine has a display and a game controller arranged to control images of
  symbols displayed on the display. The game controller is arranged to play a game
  wherein at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display and, if a
5 predefined winning event occurs, the machine awards a prize. If in the game, a plurality
  of die symbols are present on the display, the die symbols reveal outcomes, at least one
  of which results in the awarding of a feature.
  10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                    - 1
                                     "Gaming machine with feature trigger"
   Field of the Invention
                This invention relates to a gaming machine. More particularly, the invention
 5 relates to a gaming machine and to an improvement to a game played on such a gaming
   machine.
   Background to the Invention
                Players who regularly play gaining machines quickly tire of particular games
10 and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop innovative
   game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to keep players
   amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to attract new
   players.
                Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
15 intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new venues.
   When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will often pay
   close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons. Therefore, gaming
   machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game features which are
   popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales, retaining customers and
20 attracting new customers.
   Summary of the Invention
                According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming machine
   comprising a game controller arranged to facilitate a play of a first game and a play of a
25 second game, wherein the game controller is arranged to:
                initiate play of the first game by randomly selecting a plurality of symbols from
   a set of symbols for display in respective ones of a plurality of display positions, the set
   of symbols including at least two die symbols;
                determine whether the selected plurality of symbols comprises both of the at
30 least two die symbols;
                randomly select a respective numerical value for each die symbol in response to
   determining that the at least two die symbols have been selected, wherein the game
   controller is arranged to display the faces of the die symbols corresponding to the
   selected respective numerical values;
35              determine whether the at least two die symbols show faces corresponding to the
   same numerical value; and
                initiate play of the second game if it is determined that the numerical values are
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                    -2
   the same.
                In this specification, the term "game" is to be understood, unless the context
   clearly indicates otherwise, as a base game or a game that has occurred in another
   feature, for example, a game in a free game series.
 5              The die symbols may change to reveal the numerical values. The die symbols
   may change by means of an animation technique.
                Preferably, the game is a spinning reel game. Thus, the display means may
   display a simulation of a set of spinning reels. The die symbols may be carried on two
   different reels, for example, a first reel and a last reel of the set of reels. When the die
10 symbols appear in a display on the display means. the die symbols may animate to
   reveal the outcomes.
                The die symbols may animate simultaneously or sequentially. Further, the die
   symbols may animate automatically. Instead, the die symbols may animate by player
   intervention. The player intervention may involve the player operating a control means
15 to commence the animation, to stop the animation or both. The control means may be a
   control switch or button on a midtrim of the gaming machine.
                The animation may be an animation of rolling a die. In one embodiment of the
   invention, when the displayed number on a predetermined face of the die on the first
   reel matches the number on the corresponding face of the die on the last reel, after the
20 animation of the rolling of each of the dice has stopped, this acts as the trigger condition
   to award the feature.
                The second game may be any bonus feature selected from the group including: a
   series of free games, a second screen feature, a feature within the existing game display,
   a top box feature (whether mechanical or otherwise), and a number of free games In an
25 enhanced paytable mode. The preceding list is not to be construed as an exhaustive list
   and it is contemplated that the feature may encompass other forms of bonus features
   such as, for example, the paying of a bonus prize.
                According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
   use with a gaming machine comprising a game controller, the method comprising the
30 steps of:
                facilitating a play of a first game and a play of a second game;
                initiating, using the game controller, play of the first game by randomly
   selecting a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for display in respective ones of a
   plurality of display positions, the set of symbols including at least two die symbols;
35              determining, using the game controller, whether the selected plurality of
   symbols comprises both of the at least two die symbols;
                randomly selecting, using the game controller, a respective numerical value for
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                  -   3
   each die symbol in response to determining that the at least two die symbols have been
   selected, wherein the game controller is arranged to display the faces of the die symbols
   corresponding to the selected respective numerical values;
                determining, using the game controller, whether the at least two die symbols
 5 show faces corresponding to the same numerical value; and
                initiating, using the game controller, play of the second game if it is determined
   that the numerical values are the same.
                A game playing apparatus includes one which does not require the wagering of a
   stake in order to play the game and further includes apparatus which is connectable to a
10 network.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
                The invention is now described by way of example with reference to the
   accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
15              Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine;
                Figure 3 shows a screen display of a result of a first game played on the gaming
   machine of Figure 1;
20              Figure 4 shows a screen display of a result of a subsequent game;
                Figures 5a to 5c show screen displays of a sequence of events following the
   game shown in Figure 4; and
                Figure 6 shows a flow chart of the game of Figures 4 and 5.
25 Detailed Description of the Drawings
                In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a gaming machine,
   including a game, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played, in
   use. The game 16 is a spinning reel game which simulates the rotation of a number of
30 spinning reels 18. A midtrim 20 of the machine 10 houses a bank 22 of buttons for
   enabling a player to play the game 16. The midtrim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24.1 and a bill collector 24.2.
                The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
   artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc.
35              A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
                Referring now to Figure 2 of the drawings, a control means or control circuit 32
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                   -   4
   is illustrated. A program which implements the game and user interface is run on a
   processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36
   that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from
   sensors 38. The sensors 38 include sensors associated with the bank 22 of buttons and
 5 touch sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14. The controller 36 also
   receives input pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has
   provided sufficient credit to commence playing. The mechanism 24 may, instead of the
   coin input chute 24.1 or the bill collector 24.2, or in addition thereto, be a credit card
   reader (not shown) or any other type of validation device.
10              Finally, the controller 36 drives a payout mechanism 40 which, for example,
   may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a player
   when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.
                The game 16 is, as indicated above, a spinning reel game which simulates the
   rotation of a number, more particularly five, spinning reels 18.
15              Figure 3 of the drawings shows a screen display 50 of a game result after the
   player had caused the reels 18 to be spun. It is assumed that the gaming machine 10 has
   three paylines 52, 54 and 56 and that the player is playing all three paylines 52, 54 and
   56 and, further, that the player is betting one credit per line.
                The player is awarded a prize of 30 credits for the 3 x K on the first payline 52.
20              The player then causes the reels 18 to be spun again and a screen display 58 of a
   15 subsequent game result is shown in Figure 4 of the drawings.
                In the game result shown in Figure 4 of the drawings, no prize winning
   combinations of symbols appear on any of the paylines 52, 54 and 56. As a result, no
   prize is awarded to the player. However, a first die symbol 60 is spun up on the first reel
25 18.1 of the set of reels 18 and a second die symbol 62 is spun up on the fifth reel 18.5 of
   the set of reels 18. Each die symbol 60, 62 is a three dimensional depiction of a die 64.
                The occurrence of the die symbols 60 and 62 on the first reel 18.1 and the
   second reel 18.5, respectively, constitute a special condition.
                This special condition results initially in the animation of the die symbols 60 and
30 62. In the embodiment shown in Figure 5a of the drawings, both die symbols 60 and 62
   animate together. The animation is a representation of the rolling of each of the dice 64.
                As shown in Figure 5b of the drawings, the animation in respect of the rolling of
   the die 64 of the first die symbol 60 comes to an end before the animation of the second
   die symbol 62 on the reel 18.5. The die 64 comes to rest with a particular one of its
35 numbers appearing on what is, in effect, a front face 64.1 of the die 64.
                Thereafter, as shown in Figure 5c of the drawings, the animation of the rolling
   of the die 64 of the second die symbol 62 stops with one of the numbers of the die 64
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                  -   5
   visible on what is, in effect, its front face 64.1. If the numbers on the faces 64.1 of the
   dice 64 match, a feature is triggered and a message, as illustrated at 66, is displayed on
   the screen display 58 to enable the player to commence a feature.
                In this embodiment of the invention the feature is, for example, a board game
 5 which may be played as a second screen feature or on a separate screen. The outcome
   of the animation of the die symbols 60 and 62 governs a start position in the board
   game feature. The matching pair of the dice 64 triggers the feature and, because the
   matching numbers on the faces 64.1 of the dice 64 were "fives", the feature commences
   at position five on a playing board of the board game, for example, the fifth square or
10 block of the playing board.
                The animations of the die symbols 60 and 62 occur automatically as described
   above. Instead, by the player pressing a predetermined button of the bank 22 of buttons
   on the midtrim 20 of the gaming machine 10, the player can start the animation of the
   die symbols 60 and 62 when desired. In addition, the animation of the die symbols 60
15 and 62 can stop automatically or, instead, the player can stop the animation of the die
   symbols 60 and 62, either individually or together, to see if the player can control the
   matching of the numbers on the front faces 64.1 of the dice 64.
                The feature which is triggered could be any of a number of features such as a
   series of free game, a second screen feature, a feature within the existing game screen
20 display 58 such as, for example, the Applicants Penguin Pays® feature, a mechanical
   top box feature such as a backlit board game, a number of games in an enhanced
   paytable mode, the paying of a bonus prize, or the like. The actual type of feature which
   is awarded is not relevant to the present invention.
                It is an advantage of the invention that a game is provided which enhances
25 player interest as a sense of anticipation is built up due to the animation of the die
   symbols.
                It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
30 described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                    -6
   CLAIMS:
   1.           A gaming machine comprising a game controller arranged to facilitate a play of
   a first game and a play of a second game, wherein the game controller is arranged to:
 5              initiate play of the first game by randomly selecting a plurality of symbols from
   a set of symbols for display in respective ones of a plurality of display positions, the set
   of symbols including at least two die symbols;
                determine whether the selected plurality of symbols comprises both of the at
   least two die symbols;
10              randomly select a respective numerical value for each die symbol in response to
   determining that the at least two die symbols have been selected, wherein the game
   controller is arranged to display the faces of the die symbols corresponding to the
   selected respective numerical values;
                determine whether the at least two die symbols show faces corresponding to the
15 same numerical value; and
                initiate play of the second game if it is determined that the numerical values are
   the same.
   2.           The gaming machine of claim 1 in which the die symbols change to reveal the
20 numerical values.
   3.           The gaining machine of claim 2 in which the die symbols change by means of
   an animation technique.
25 4.           The gaming machine of claim 3 in which the game is a spinning reel game, the
   die symbols being carried on two different reels.
   5.           The gaming machine of claim3 or claim 4 in which the die symbols animate
   simultaneously.
30
   6.           The gaming machine of claim or claim 4 in which the die symbols animate
   sequentially.
   7.           The gaining machine of any one of claims 3 to 6 in which the die symbols
35 animate automatically.
   8.           The gaming machine of any one of claims 3 to 6 in which the die symbols
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                     -7
   animate by player intervention.
   9.           The gaming machine of any one of claims 3 to 8 in which the animation is an
   animation of rolling a die.
 5
   10.          The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims in which the second
   game is selected from the group including: a series of free games, a second screen
   feature, a feature within the existing game display, a top box feature, a number of free
   games in an enhanced paytable mode and the paying of a bonus prize.
10
   11.          A method for use with a gaming machine comprising a game controller, the
   method comprising the steps of:
                facilitating a play of a first game and a play of a second game;
                initiating, using the game controller, play of the first game by randomly
15 selecting a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols for display in respective ones of a
   plurality of display positions, the set of symbols including at least two die symbols;
                determining, using the game controller, whether the selected plurality of
   symbols comprises both of the at least two die symbols;
                randomly selecting, using the game controller, a respective numerical value for
20 each die symbol in response to determining that the at least two die symbols have been
   selected, wherein the game controller is arranged to display the faces of the die symbols
   corresponding to the selected respective numerical values;
                determining, using the game controller, whether the at least two die symbols
   show faces corresponding to the same numerical value; and
25              initiating, using the game controller, play of the second game if it is determined
   that the numerical values are the same.
   12.          The method of claim 11, comprising changing the die symbols to reveal the
   numerical values.
30
   13.          The method of claim 12, comprising changing the die symbols by means of an
   animation technique.
   14.          The method of claim 13 in which the game is a spinning reel game, the die
35 symbols being carried on two different reels.
   15.          The method of claim 13 or claim 14, comprising animating the die symbols
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

                                                -8
   simultaneously.
   16.          The method of claim 13 or claim 14, comprising animating the die symbols
   sequentially.
 5
   17.          The method of any one of claims 13 to 16, comprising animating die symbols
   automatically.
   18.          The method of any one of claims 13 to 16, comprising animating the die
10 symbols in response to player intervention.
   19.          The method of any one of claims 13 to 18 in which the animation is an
   animation of rolling a die.
15 20.          The method of any one of the claims 11 to 19, in which the second game is
   selected from the group including: a series of free games, a second screen feature, a
   feature within the existing game display, a top box feature, a number of free games in
   an enhanced paytable mode and the paying of a bonus prize.
   10040833_1 (GHMatters)P88202.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
