       ASSAY SYSTEM FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF ONCOGENICITY, TUMOR
                     PROGRESSION, AND TREATMENT EFFICACY
                                           Abstract
Systems and kits are provided which are capable of determining the oncogenicity of a cancer,
tumor progression, and effectiveness of a cancer treatment. Such systems and kits utilize assays
to examine the levels of apoptotic markers, angiogenesis markers, immunomodulation markers,
and cell cycle markers and can compare samples from a patient taken at different times to
determine the oncogenicity of a cancer, tumor progression, and effectiveness of a cancer
treatment. Methods for determining the oncogenicity of a cancer, tumor progression, and
effectiveness of a cancer treatment with such systems and kits are also provided.

                        ASSAY SYSTEM FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF ONCOGENICITY,
                             TUMOR PROGRESSION, AND TREATMENT EFFICACY
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/023,570, filed January 25, 2008, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
         This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015203304,
which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.2009206289
(PCT/US2009/031957), the contents of each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 BACKGROUND
         Cancer is presently one of the leading causes of death in developed nations. Recent research
has vastly increased the understanding of many of the molecular mechanisms of tumorigenesis and
has provided numerous new avenues for the treatment of cancer. Systems and methods for assessing
the stage of a cancer, as well as its oncogenicity and the extent of tumor progression, are clinically
used in an attempt to determine appropriate treatments. Such systems and methods may also be
utilized to assess the efficacy of any treatment utilized.
         Improved methods for the treatment of diseases, including cancer, which permit assessment
of oncogenicity, tumor progression, and treatment efficacy, remain desirable.
SUMMARY
         The present disclosure provides assay kits and systems suitable for use in treating cancer.
Systems and kits of the present disclosure allow one to determine the cancerous nature of a tissue
sample, such as by assessing the stage of a cancer, as well as its oncogenicity and the extent of tumor
progression. The kits and systems of the present
                                                      1
13884217

disclosure may also be utilized to determine appropriate treatments as well as the efficacy
of any treatment utilized. In embodiments, systems and kits of the present disclosure
may utilize assays, in embodiments ELISA, to examine the levels of apoptotic markers,
angiogenesis markers, immunomodulation markers, and/or cell cycle markers, and can
compare samples from a patient taken at different times to determine the oncogenicity of
a cancer, tumor progression, and effectiveness of a cancer treatment.
        In embodiments, a kit or system of the present disclosure may utilize a software
program to analyze the data generated by the assays of the present disclosure. In
embodiments, a kit or system of the present disclosure may include an assay for
measuring a level of a protein in a tissue sample implicated in a cellular process such as
apoptosis, angiogenesis, immunomodulation, cell cycle development, and combinations
thereof; and at least one processor coupled to a computer-readable media configured to
store a set of instructions capable of being executed by the at least one processor, the
instructions including comparing a level of the protein in the tissue sample with a
baseline value, and determining whether or not the tissue sample is cancerous.
         Methods utilizing such kits and systems are also provided. In embodiments,
methods of the present disclosure may include methods for determining the cancerous
nature of a tissue sample, such as by assessing the oncogenicity of a cancer, determining
the progression of a tumor, determining the efficacy of a cancer treatment, combinations
thereof, and the like.
                                              2

DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described herein below
with reference to the figures wherein:
        Figure 1 includes the apoptosis analysis of a sample from an assay report that may
be generated with the systems and kits of the present disclosure;
        Figure 2 includes the angiogenesis analysis of a sample from an assay report that
may be generated with the systems and kits of the present disclosure;
        Figure 3 includes the immunomodulation analysis of a sample from an assay
report that may be generated with the systems and kits of the present disclosure; and
        Figure 4 includes the cell cycle analysis of a sample from an assay report that may
be generated with the systems and kits of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        The present disclosure provides an assay system that examines cellular proteins
that play a vital role in apoptosis (programmed cell death), angiogenesis (new blood
vessel growth), immunomodulation, and cell cycle factors thereby contributing to the
overall level of oncogenicity. A cancer cell exhibits impaired signaling of the
gene/protein expression of factors related to the aforementioned processes. This leads to:
an imbalance of homeostasis; loss of immune surveillance and apoptotic control;
mutations from tumor-induced autoregulation; and increased vasculature. These combine
to be the precipitating factors that drive the onset of oncogenesis. For example, an
 increase of Bcl-2 expression, which prevents apoptosis, combined with a downregulation
of Bax expression, may be indicative of apoptotic resistance. Thus, measuring the
                                                3

expression of proteins like Bax and Bel-2 before and after a cancer treatment may lend
insight into whether a treatment regimen effectively restores the apoptotic potential to
malignant tissue.
          In accordance with the present disclosure, systems and kits are provided including
multiple assays which may be utilized to assess the malignancy of a cancer, including its
oncogenicity, as well as the progression of tumors and the effectiveness of treatments.
An apoptosis assay component of the system may be utilized to indicate whether cells are
undergoing programmed cell death at a normal rate, or whether the cells are not dying as
they should, which could be indicative of the malignant nature of the cells. An
 angiogenesis assay portion of the system may measure the secretions and cellular
receptors of cancer cells to determine their ability to stimulate the formation of new blood
vessels which may provide nutrients to facilitate tumor growth.
          These values may be utilized to quantify the progression of a tumor and the
 efficacy of anti-angiogenic treatments. Immunomodulation measurements may be
 utilized to indicate the immune response for uncontrolled growth of cells and the level of
 infiltration into the tumor microenvironment. Finally, cell cycle factors may be utilized
 to assess the rate of cell turn over, which is indicative of the how aggressively the tumor
 may be growing.
           The four categories (apoptosis, angiogenesis, immunomodulation, and cell cycle
 factors) may be rated on a numeric scale individually, however a clinician may assess the
 four given values collectively, to monitor and choose and follow a treatment regimen for
 a malignancy.
                                                 4

         A technological advantage of an assay system or kit of the present disclosure
includes the software accompanying the system or kit which will analyze proteins to rate
tumor progression and the efficacy of a treatment in a simple numerical reading. In
embodiment, levels of as many as 25 proteins may be analyzed to rate tumor progression
and the efficacy of a treatment in a simple numerical reading.
Construction of an ELISA Kit:
         In embodiments, the assay system of the present disclosure may include an
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Any ELISA system within the
purview of those skilled in the art may be utilized. In embodiments, the ELISA kit may
be prepared using a direct pathway. In other embodiments, the ELISA kit may be
prepared using an indirect pathway.
         For an ELISA kit prepared using a direct pathway, a suitable method for
producing the ELISA kit includes the attachment of an antibody of interest to the base of
a plastic 96-well plate. A sample is then dispensed into the well and the target protein
will bind to the antibodies. After washing off the unreacted proteins, a second
monoclonal antibody bound to a recorder enzyme may be added to the wells in the plate.
This antibody attaches to the protein complex on the bottom of the wells. Proteins that
do not bind to the complex are removed by washing the wells. Subsequently, an enzyme
 substrate is added to the wells to initiate a reaction with the recorder enzyme. The
 intensity of the color change depends on the concentration on the bound recorder enzyme
correlating to the concentration of the target protein.
         For an ELISA kit prepared using an indirect pathway, an indirect method
measures the antibodies present in a patient's samples (e.g. serum). An antigen is
                                                 5

absorbed in the wall of the 96 well plates. The sample from the patient is added to the
well and if the antibody of interest (in the patient's serum) is present, it will bind to the
antigen. After washing the unreacted proteins, a second antibody with a recorder enzyme
is added to bind with the antibodies present in the patient's sample. Adding an enzyme
substrate will produce a colorimetric change and the intensity of the color change will be
measured using a UV-Vis spectrometer.
         In some embodiments, an assay system of the present disclosure may be based
upon a direct ELISA method. The wells of the plate may be coated with antibodies of
interest and homogenized samples may be added to the plate to quantify the protein
expression of the apoptotic, angiogenic, immunomodulatory, and cell cycle proteins.
         Other technologies which may be utilized with an assay system of the present
disclosure are within the purview of those skilled in the art and include, but are not
limited to, immuno-histochemical, staining, western blot kits, gene expression for the
corresponding proteins (including gene constructs for protein expression), and
 proteonomics studies, which, in embodiments, could include mass-spectroscopy.
         The above technologies may similarly be used to quantify the expression of
 apoptotic, angiogenic, immunomodulatory, and cell cycle proteins, thereby permitting
 one to determine the cancerous nature of a tissue sample, such as by assessing the stage
 of a cancer, as well as its oncogenicity and the extent of tumor progression.
                                                6

Cellular Markers examined by assay system
Apoptotic Markers
        Any apoptotic markers may be examined using the assay systems of the present
disclosure. Such markers include, but are not limited to:
1) Bcl-2:             B-cell lymphoma 2 is an anti-apoptotic protein and is upregulated
                      in oncogenic cells.
2) Bax:               A pro-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 protein family, activity is
                      inhibited by increased Bcl-2 levels in > 65% of all cancers.
3) Bid:               A BH3 subfamily protein that forms dimers with pro/anti and anti
                      Bcl-2 members to trigger the mitochondria to release factors to
                      initiate DNA damage.
4) Cytochrome c:      Released in the presence of pro-apoptotic signals and forms
                      complex with Apaf-1 (apoptotic protease activating factor 1: a
                      protein that participates in apoptosis) to initiate activity of CARD
                      family (CARD is the Caspase Recruitment Domain: domains
                      found in proteins that mediate the formation of larger complexes
                      and play a role in processes including, for example, apoptosis).
                      (E.g. Casp-9, Casp-6 and Casp-3.)
5) Caspase-3:         Key member of the CARD family that is the end-point cytosolic
                      mediator preceding the initiation of DNA fragmentation in the
                      nucleus.
6) p53:               p53 is a transcription factor that regulates the cell cycle and hence
                      functions as a tumor suppressor. It is important in multicellular
                      organisms as it helps to suppress cancer.
Angiogenic Markers
        Any angiogenic markers and/or gene constructs may be examined using the assay
systems of the present disclosure. Such markers include, but are not limited to:
 1) VEGF:              Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor. Major protein responsible
                       for development of vascular beds that feed tumor nutrients and
                      provides foundation for metastases. Released by cells to promote
                      new vessel formation
                                              7

2) HIF-l x:            Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1 alpha. Released by endothelial walls
                       of tumor to decrease oxygen levels (hypoxia) which is conducive
                       to alternate sources of ATP via glycolytic flux. Also upregulates
                       VEGF and hence angiogenesis.
3) bFGF:               Basic Fibroblast Growth Factor. Induces endothelial cell
                       replication, migration, and extracellular proteolysis.
4) Angiostatin:        Anti-angiogenic factor that inhibits formation of new vessels.
Immunomodulation
          Any markers indicative of immunomodulation may be examined using the assay
systems of the present disclosure. Such markers include, but are not limited to:
 1) TNF-a:              Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha. A pleiotropic cytokine that causes
                        necrosis in some type of tumor cells and promotes growth in other
                        cells.
2) IL-6:                Interleukine-6. A pro-inflammatory response secreted by T-cells.
                        IL-6 has been shown to promote tumor growth and is a prognostic
                        indicator of many cancers as it mitigates immune involvement
                        possibly by augmenting angiogenic effect.
Cell Cycle
          Any markers indicative of a cell's place in cell cycle development may be
 examined using the assay systems of the present disclosure. Such markers include, but
 are not limited to:
 1) p2 1:               a cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitor, and is a key mediator
                        of p53 -dependent cell cycle arrest after DNA damage
 2) p2 7 :              a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that controls the cell cycle
                        progression at the G1 phase. (The G1 phase is the period in the
                        cell cycle during interphase, before mitosis,cytokinesis, and the S
                        phase. For many cells, this phase is the major period of cell growth
                        during its lifespan.)
                                                8

Patient Biopsies
         In accordance with the present disclosure, in embodiments tissue samples may be
taken from a patient and subjected to the assays described above. Any method within the
purview of one skilled in the art may be utilized to obtain tissue samples. In
embodiments, a biopsy may be utilized to obtain a tissue sample.
         For a biopsy, two types of samples may be extracted from a patient. The first
sample may be taken from a suspected lesion of abnormal growth. The second sample
may be taken from a normal tissue region. These samples may be assayed for the
differences in the oncogenic markers described above to determine the cellular difference
and the degree of oncogenicity. The samples may be homogenized and placed in a cold
 lysis buffer containing protease and phosphatase inhibitors to prevent the cleavage and
 degradation of proteins. In embodiments, the samples may be frozen prior to testing.
 This may be desirable where there is an extended period of time between obtaining the
 samples and testing. Any freezing process utilized may assist in the lysing of the cells.
          Once the samples are ready for testing, they may be thawed and homogenized.
 The samples may be centrifuged at about 4*C to remove any cellular debris not
 homogenized. Proteins may then be quantified using protein assays that accompany the
 assay kit.
 Kit Design
          The assay kit may utilize any suitable assay, including an ELISA assay as
 described above. In embodiments the kit may utilize an assay prepared by the direct
                                                9

ELISA method described above. Antibodies for the each protein may be affixed to the
96-well plate for the apoptotic, angiogenesis, immunomodulation, and cell cycle proteins.
Apoptosis Assay Section
        The kit design includes wells coated with the antibody of interest for a given
protein. In some embodiments Bcl-2 may be measured. Standards that accompany the
kit may be diluted and added in duplicate to the wells coated with antibodies to Bcl-2.
Each of the patient's target samples from a suspected lesion of abnormal growth may
then be added to four wells along with the sample of normal tissue such as skin obtained
by biopsy from the patient. The Bcl-2 proteins present in the sample will bind to the
antibody coated on the base of the plate. The wells may be washed with reagents and a
secondary antibody with a recorder enzyme may be added to the wells. The second
antibody added will bind to the complex attached to the plate. The wells may be washed
and an enzyme substrate may be added and the intensity of the colorimetric assay may be
measured using spectroscopy. The other proteins levels are measured using the same
concept.
        Once the individual protein levels are quantified, the 6 proteins may be compared.
Any apoptotic protein may be quantified utilizing these methods. In embodiments,
apoptotic proteins that may be quantified utilizing these methods include:
        1)  Bcl-2
        2)  Bax
        3)  p53
        4)  Bid
        5)  Caspase-3
        6)  Cytochrome c
                                              10

        For the above markers, an increase in Bcl-2, or a decrease in Bax, Bid, Caspase-3,
Cytochrome C, would be indicative of a decrease in apoptosis, which in turn is indicative
of an aggressive cancer. Conversely, a decrease in Bel-2, or an increase in Bax, Bid,
Caspase-3, or Cytochrome c, would be indicative of an increase in apoptosis, which in
turn is indicative that a given treatment is effective in treating the cancer.
Software data analysis
         As noted above, a software program may be included with kits of the present
disclosure. As noted above, protein levels may be measured based on the concentration
of proteins loaded into each well. Data analysis software that accompanies the kits may
measure the level of the protein of interest. for example, in embodiments, the software
may measure the level of Bel-2 compared to Bax levels. These values will be compared
to the normal biopsy values to determine a significant difference in Bcl-2 related to Bax
levels. A ratio of Bcl-2 expression that is significantly higher than Bax, in embodiments
 about 3:2, in other embodiments from about 1:1 to about 10:1, would indicate a low level
 of apoptosis, i.e., this ratio should be accompanied by an overall dysregulation of the Bcl
 2 protein family leading to impaired apoptotic control. Any statistical variance low
 enough to demonstrate clinical significance may be utilized.
         In addition, levels of p53, Bid, Caspase-3, and Cytochrome c levels may also be
 compared to normal tissue samples. If there is a decrease in p53, Caspase-3, Bid, and
 Cytochrome c, then it may be concluded that the sample contains cells that are resistant to
 apoptosis, one of the hallmark characteristics of oncogenicity.
                                                11

         Through extensive validation testing, the levels for each cancer cell line may be
established, as well as a level to relate the value obtained by the data analysis software to
the severity of the cancer. The number scale may be from 1 - 15, in which case 15
correlates to a high resistance of apoptosis and the diagnosis of an oncogenic cell line.
         Initial recordings based upon the above assays may be stored, with a follow-up
visit to obtain a second biopsy to quantify any change in the apoptotic potential. This
may be utilized to indicate the efficacy of treatment and aid the treating physician in
deciding whether to continue treatment or change the treatment regimen before the
advancement of the cancer condition.
Angiogenesis Assay Section
         Any component indicative of angiogenesis may be analyzed as part of the
 angiogenesis portion of the assay system of the present disclosure. In embodiments,
 suitable components that may be examined as part of the angiogenesis portion of the
 assay system of the present disclosure include:
          1)  VEGF
          2)  HIF-la
          3)  bFGF
          4)  Angiostatin
          Methods similar to those described above for quantifying the apoptotic factors
 may be utilized for the comparison of angiogenic factors from target samples obtained
 from a suspected lesion of abnormal growth with normal tissue. Such a comparison may
 indicate if cells in a lesion are stimulating the formation of new blood vessels. If there is
 increased VEGF, HIF- 1a, bFGF, and decreased Angiostatin, this may be indicative of
                                                 12

angiogenesis and a very aggressive and rapidly organizing tumor environment.
Conversely, decreased VEGF, HIF- 1ax, bFGF, and increased Angiostatin may be
indicative of a decrease in angiogenesis and that a given treatment is effective in treating
the cancer. The data software described above may rate the increase in angiogenesis on a
scale from I to 15.
        While the above assay is described as one which examines protein expression, it
may also be constructed to include an assay for each of the receptors for each of the
angiogenic factors.
         The results obtained may be utilized to suggest a mode of treatment and, after a
follow-up visit and additional sampling from a suspected lesion of abnormal growth, the
analysis may be utilized to confirm the efficacy of treatment.
Immunomodulation Assay Section
         Any immunomodulator may be assayed as the immunomodulation portion of the
 assay system of the present disclosure. In embodiments, suitable components that may
 be examined as part of the immunomodulation portion of the assay system of the present
 disclosure include:
         1) TNF-a
         2) IL-6
         Samples may be obtained as described above from a suspected lesion of abnormal
 growth and normal tissue. The levels for samples from a suspected lesion of abnormal
 growth may be compared to basal levels from the normal tissue samples. These
 calculations can assess the role of the immune response in the promotion of tumor
                                              13

growth. IL-6 increases with age and stress and may have role in oncogenesis; it has a
well established role in the progression of cancer and its relationship to angiogenesis. An
increase (up-regulation) of IL-6 may promote tumor progression. TNF-z may promote
or inhibit tumor growth depending on the type of malignancy.
        The data processed by the software accompanying the kit may be utilized to
assess the role of inflammation in the cancer type and, more importantly, in a specific
patient. In addition to TNF-a and IL-6, secretions for the receptors of these proteins on
the cells may also be quantified. The final value, on a scale of 1 -15, where 1 signifies
the lowest involvement in immunomodulatory response and 15 is the highest, may be
based on protein expression as well as cell receptor activity.
Cell Cycle Assay Section
         The turnover rate of cancer cells is extremely high. Thus, with this portion of the
assay system, this rate of turnover may be quantified by measuring cell cycle markers.
Any cell cycle marker may be assayed utilizing the system of the present disclosure. In
embodiments, suitable components that may be examined as part of the cell cycle portion
of the assay system of the present disclosure include, but are not limited to:
         1) p21
         2) p2 7
         Again, samples obtained by biopsy as described above will be subjected to an
 ELISA assay as described above. Decreased levels of either of the above markers may
 indicate an increase in cell turnover which, in turn, may signify an aggressively growing
tumor. Compared to the normal tissue biopsies, the rating of cell cycle turnover may be
 rated based on a scale of 1-15, where 1 being a low rate and 15 is the fastest rate of
                                               14

turnover. Values from this assay portion may give an indication of the rate of growth of a
tumor. Samples obtained at a follow up visit may be examined for the rate of cell turn
over, which can then be utilized to assess if a tumor is advancing at a rapid rate or if a
treatment is arresting growth.
System
         An example of an assay report (for a hypothetical patient) that may be generated
with the software of the system and kit of the present disclosure is set forth on the
attached Figures 1-4 and below in Tables 1-5. The assay report may include such
information as the patient's name, date of birth, an identifying number, the date of the
report, a brief summary of the patient history, the suspected diagnosis, combinations
thereof, and the like, as well as any other factor deemed relevant to the health care
 provider.
         Figure 1 includes a graph depicting the apoptosis analysis of a sample; Figure 2
 includes a graph depicting the angiogenesis analysis of a sample; Figure 3 includes a
 graph depicting the immunomodulation analysis of a sample; and Figure 4 includes a
 graph depicting the cell cycle analysis of a sample. In addition to the graphs depicted in
 the Figures, the assay report (again, in this case for a hypothetical patient) may include
 the following information included in Tables 1-4 below for each assay (Table 1 for
 apoptosis, Table 2 for angiogenesis, Table 3 for immunomodulation, and Table 4 for cell
 cycle analysis), with a sample summary of the assay results as set forth in Table 5 below:
                                                15

                           TABLE 1
                       Apoptosis Results:
Apoptotic Proteins                         Levels Compare to
                                           Normal Tissue
Bcl-2                                      Increased
Bax                                        Decreased
p53                                        Decreased
Bid                                        Decreased
Caspase-3                                  Decreased
Cytochrome C                               Decreased
                           TABLE2
                      Angiogenesis Results:
Angiogenesis Proteins                      Levels Compare to
                                           Normal Tissue
VEGF                                       Increased
Hif-lac                                    Increased
bFGF                                       Increased
Angiostatin-1                              Decreased
                           TABLE 3
                    Immunomodulation Results:
Immunomodulatory Proteins                  Levels Compare to
                                           Normal Tissue
TNF-a                                      Increased
IL-6                                       Increased
                           TABLE 4
                       Cell cycle Results:
Cell Cycle Proteins                         Levels Compare to
                                            Normal Tissue
p2 1                                        Decreased
p27                                         Decreased
                               16

                          TABLE 5
               Summary of Assay results:
                Assay Section                      Rating
                  Apoptosis                           13
                Angiogenesis                          11
             Immunomodulation                          9
                  Cell Cycle                          11
                   Clinical Impression:
The data from the main contributing factors to the
progression and state of cancer all indicate that the
patient has an aggressive malignancy that:
    1) Exhibits significant apoptotic resistance that may
        present problems toward chemotherapeutic
        intervention.
    2) Increased angiogenesis that is facilitating active
        nutrient delivery to tumor microenvironment and
        forming vascular armors within and around
        malignancy to strengthen extracellular
        complexes which dock tumor site and possible
        allow metastatic invasion into other tissue/organ
        sites.
    3) The tumor is growing at an extremely high rate.
        The rate of cell turnover and multiplication is
        consistent with a tumor that will enlarge quickly
        and/or invade surrounding tissue, possible
        leading to metastases based on heterogeneity.
    4) The inflammatory factors are increased which
        suggest that tumor is in proliferative and healthy
        state. The tumor is developing, "its own immune
        system" which adds another layer of resistance
        towards an array of treatment modailites and
        mediates communication within tumor
        microenvironment.
                               17

         It is to be understood that the software component of the present disclosure may
be implemented in various forms of hardware, software, firmware, networks, special
purpose processors, or a combination thereof. In embodiments, the present disclosure
may be implemented in software as an application program tangibly embodied on a
program storage device. The application program may be uploaded to, and executed by,
a computer system comprising any suitable architecture such as a personal computer, a
workstation or server. In embodiments, the system may be implemented on a computer
platform having hardware such as one or more central processing units (CPU) (e.g.,
processor), a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM) and
input/output (I/O) interface(s) such as a keyboard, cursor control device (e.g., a mouse or
joystick) and display device. Any similar data processing apparatus capable of operating
the software described herein, thereby generating the data described herein may be
utilized.
          In embodiments, for example, a suitable system may include at least one
processor coupled to a computer-readable media configured to store a set of instructions
 capable of being executed by the at least one processor, the instructions including
 comparing a level of a protein in a tissue sample with a baseline value, and determining
 whether or not the tissue sample is cancerous. In such a case, the set of instructions being
 executed by the at least one processor may include the software component noted above.
          In other embodiments, the systems and kits may not include a computer, with the
 expectation that the user of a system or kit of the present disclosure will possess a CPU or
 similar processor/apparatus on which the software component of the system or kit may
 run, thereby generating the data described herein.
                                                18

        In yet other embodiments, a system and kit of the present disclosure may include
a stand-alone unit possessing a processor with the software described herein and a reader
capable of reading plates or other media/components utilized in the assay of the present
disclosure. Examples of such systems include, but are not limited to, those commercially
available as the NANOCFTM biological assay system from Eksigent Technologies
(Dublin, CA).
        It will be appreciated that various of the above-disclosed and other features and
functions, or alternatives thereof, may be desirably combined into many other different
systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated
alternatives, modifications, variations or improvements therein may be subsequently
made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the
following claims.
                                               19

Disclosed herein are the following forms of the invention:
         1.      A method comprising:
         obtaining a tissue sample from an animal;
         measuring a level of a protein in the tissue sample implicated in a cellular process
selected from the group consisting of apoptosis, angiogenesis, immunomodulation, cell cycle
development, and combinations thereof;
         comparing the level of the protein in the tissue sample with a baseline value; and
         determining whether or not the tissue sample is cancerous.
         2.      The method of form 1, wherein the protein is implicated in apoptosis, and is
selected from the group consisting of Bcl-2, Bax, p53, Bid, Caspase-3, and Cytochrome c.
         3.      The method of form 2, wherein a decrease in apoptosis is indicated by an
increase in Bcl-2, a decrease in Bax, a decrease in Bid, a decrease in Caspase-3, and a
decrease in Cytochrome C.
         4.      The method of form 1, wherein the protein is implicated in angiogenesis, and
is selected from the group consisting of VEGF, HIF-lc, bFGF, and angiostatin.
         5.      The method of form 4, wherein a decrease in angiogenesis is indicated by a
decrease in VEGF, a decrease in HIF- 1la, a decrease in bFGF, and an increase in angiostatin.
         6.      The method of form 1, wherein the protein is implicated in
immunomodulation, and is selected from the group consisting of TNF-a and IL-6.
                                                 20
13884257

         7.    The method of form 6, wherein tumor progression is indicated by an increase
in IL-6.
         8.    The method of form 1, wherein the protein is implicated in the cell cycle, and
comprises a cell cycle factor selected from the group consisting of p21 and p27.
         9.    The method of form 8, wherein tumor progression is indicated by a decrease in
p21 or a decrease in p27.
         10.   The method of form 1, wherein the baseline comprises a known level of the
protein.
         11.   The method of form 1, wherein the baseline is obtained from a previous
sample obtained from the animal.
         12.   The method of form 1, wherein determining whether or not the tissue sample
is cancerous comprises assessing an overall level of oncogenicity in the tissue sample.
         13.   The method of form 1, wherein determining whether or not the tissue sample
is cancerous comprises determining progression of a tumor.
         14.   The method of form 1, wherein determining whether or not the tissue sample
is cancerous further comprises determining efficacy of a cancer treatment.
                                               21
13884257

         15.     A system for carrying out the method of form 1.
         16.     The system of form 15, further comprising at least one processor coupled to a
computer-readable media configured to store a set of instructions capable of being executed
by the at least one processor, the instructions including comparing a level of a protein in a
tissue sample with a baseline value; and determining whether or not the tissue sample is
cancerous.
         17.     A kit for carrying out the method of form 1.
         18.     The kit of form 17, further comprising an ELISA assay to measure the protein
in the tissue sample.
         19.     The kit of form 17, further comprising software for comparing the level of the
protein in the tissue sample with the baseline value.
         20.     A system comprising:
                 an assay for measuring a level of a protein in a tissue sample implicated in a
cellular process selected from the group consisting of apoptosis, angiogenesis,
immunomodulation, cell cycle development, and combinations thereof; and
                 at least one processor coupled to a computer-readable media configured to
store a set of instructions capable of being executed by the at least one processor, the
instructions including the steps of:
                 comparing a level of the protein in the tissue sample with a baseline value; and
                 determining whether or not the tissue sample is cancerous.
                                                22
13884257

CLAIMS
1.       A method comprising:
         measuring a level of one or more proteins implicated in angiogenesis in a tissue sample,
wherein the one or more proteins comprise angiostatin;
         comparing the level of the measured proteins in the tissue sample with a baseline value;
         wherein a decrease in angiostatin indicates that the sample is cancerous.
2.       A method comprising:
         measuring levels of two or more proteins implicated in angiogenesis in a tissue sample,
wherein the two or more proteins comprise angiostatin and one or more proteins selected from the
group consisting of VEGF, HIF-la and bFGF;
         comparing the levels of the measured proteins in the tissue sample with a baseline value;
         wherein a decrease in angiostatin in combination with an increase in VEGF, an increase in
Hif- 1 a, or an increase in bFGF, indicates that the sample is cancerous.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the levels of three or more proteins implicated in
angiogenesis are measured.
4.       A method comprising:
         measuring levels of proteins implicated in angiogenesis in a tissue sample, wherein the
proteins comprise VEGF, HIF-lau, bFGF and angiostatin;
         comparing the level of the measured proteins in the tissue sample with a baseline value;
wherein
         (a) an increase in VEGF, an increase in HIF-la, an increase in bFGF and a decrease in
angiostatin indicates that the sample is cancerous; or
         (b) a decrease in VEGF, a decrease in HIF-la, a decrease in bFGF and an increase in
angiostatin indicates that a treatment is effective in treating cancer in the animal.
                                                     23
13884311

5.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the baseline comprises a known level of the
proteins
6.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the baseline is obtained from a sample of
normal tissue.
7.       A method comprising:
         measuring levels of proteins implicated in apoptosis in a tissue sample , wherein the proteins
comprise Bax and Bcl-2;
         comparing the levels of the proteins in the tissue sample, wherein
         a ratio of expression level of Bcl-2 to Bax of 1:1 to 10:1 indicates that the sample is
cancerous.
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein a ratio of expression level of Bcl-2 to Bax of 3:2 indicates
that the sample is cancerous.
9.       The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the ratio of expression level of Bcl-2 to Bax indicates
that the cancerous sample is an aggressive cancer.
10.      A system for carrying out the method of any one of claims 1-9.
11.      The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one processor coupled to a computer
readable media configured to store a set of instructions capable of being executed by the at least one
processor, the instructions including comparing a level of proteins in a tissue sample with a baseline
value; and determining whether or not the tissue sample is cancerous.
12.      A kit for carrying out the method of any one of claims 1-9.
                                                    24
13884311

13.      The kit of claim 12, further comprising an ELISA assay to measure the proteins in the tissue
sample.
14.      The kit of claim 12, further comprising software for comparing the level of the proteins in the
tissue sample with the baseline value.
                                               Berg LLC
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                   25
13884311

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

