ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a tray for foodstuffs, comprising, in this order: a first
inner polymer layer, a second polymer layer and an outer aluminium layer, wherein the
tray has a sealing region on the upper peripheral rim formed at least by the first polymer
layer, wherein the tray can be sealed with a lid.

Tray
The present invention relates to a tray, especially a tray for holding foodstuffs.
Numerous foodstuffs, such as ready meals or animal food, are sold in aluminium trays. The
inside of the tray is typically coated with a plastic material in order to enable it to be sealed. A
plastic material used for this purpose must be designed such that no compounds from the plas
tic material which might be harmful to health or might alter the taste or are disadvantageous
in any other way are released into the foodstuffs to be packed.
Food trays made of aluminium are known in the state of the art, where, for example, their
inside surfaces are coated thinly with polypropylene.
One problem associated with the use of aluminium trays for food packaging is that the trays
can easily be mechanically deformed. During transport of the packaged foodstuffs from the
factory to the place of sale or from the place of sale to the consumer, the packaging may suf
fer unsightly dents, for example because of knocks or other mechanical effects. In this way,
the visual impression of the packaged foodstuffs on the shop shelf is drastically impaired.
In order to counter mechanical deformation of this kind, aluminium trays with a large wall
thickness of about 150 ptm have so far been used, the inside surfaces of which are coated with
a polypropylene layer about 30 im thick. The great thickness of the aluminium walls is in
tended to prevent the formation of dents and other types of deformation.

                                                -2
A disadvantage here is that large amounts of aluminium are required. The manufacture of alu
minium materials, however, requires a great deal of energy and hence involves high manufac
turing costs and has a major impact on the environment.
From non-published DE 10 2012 107 720.7 a tray with a first inner polymer layer having a
thickness of 200 - 400 tm, a second polymer layer having a thickness of 20 - 40 tm and an
outer aluminium layer having a thickness of 40 - 80 vm is known. Such a tray has a high
resistance to mechanical deformation and uses a low content of aluminium. The known tray
has on the upper peripheral rim thereof a sealing region formed by the second polymer layer
which projects above the first inner polymer layer in the sealing region.
It is a disadvantage for this structure that the stability of the sealing region is not sufficient,
and the closed tray is difficult to open. Further, especially upon opening the tray, dents may
easily occur which are unsightly.
It is accordingly one object of the present invention to provide a tray which overcomes the
disadvantages of the state of the art. In particular, a tray for foodstuffs shall be provided,
which has a stable sealing region for sealing a lid thereon, which can be easily opened.
Further, the tray shall exhibit improved resistance to mechanical deformation and shall at the
same time be produced in an environmentally friendly manner with lower manufacturing
costs.
This problem is solved by a tray comprising, in this order: a first inner polymer layer, a
second polymer layer and an outer aluminium layer, wherein the tray has a sealing region on
the upper peripheral rim formed at least by the first polymer layer, wherein the tray can be
sealed with a lid.

                                               -3
Especially preferred, the thickness of the first inner polymer layer is from 100 - 1000 pm,
preferably 200 - 600 pm, even preferably 200 - 400 pm and still preferred in a range of from
250 - 350 pm.
Especially preferred, the sealing region is formed by the first and second polymer layer as
well as the aluminium layer.
The first inner polymer layer and the second polymer layer are separated from one another by
an intermediate layer, which is typically created in that the two polymer layers are formed in
different, successive operations, for example in that the second polymer layer is formed on the
outer aluminium layer in a first operation, and, preferably after the second aluminium layer
has cooled, the first inner polymer layer is formed in a second operation. The intermediate
layer formed in this way can be observed in a simple manner, such as by cutting the tray per
pendicularly to the layers and inspecting the cut surface under a microscope.
According to one aspect of the present invention, a tray is prepared with a second polymer
layer having a thickness in the range of 10 - 40 pm, preferably 20 - 40 pm, even preferably 25
- 35 pim.
In addition, the present invention preferably comprises a tray with the outer aluminium layer
having a thickness in a range from 20 - 80 pm, preferably 40 - 80 pm, even preferably 40 - 60
pm.
According to yet another aspect, the present invention relates to a tray wherein the first inner
polymer layer and/or the second polymer layer comprises polypropylene and/or polyethylene,
preferably polypropylene.

                                                -4
In addition, the invention relates particularly preferably to a tray wherein the first inner poly
mer layer and/or the second polymer layer consists of polypropylene and/or polyethylene,
preferably polypropylene.
Furthermore, the invention preferably provides a tray wherein the first inner polymer layer is
a layer produced by injection moulding.
In addition, the invention preferably provides a tray wherein the second polymer layer is a
layer applied by lamination and/or coextrusion.
The invention also relates to the use of such a tray for holding foodstuffs, especially animal
food or ready meals.
It has surprisingly been found that the tray of the invention has a very stable sealing region, so
that a lid sealed on the tray can be easily opened and removed, without forming dents or
deformations of the tray. The surface of the tray is nearly perfect and absolutely wrinkle-free.
Further, the tray of the invention exhibits unusually great resistance to mechanical
deformation and at the same time contains a considerably smaller amount of aluminium
compared to the state of the art. In this way, the tray of the invention can surprisingly be
manufactured at considerably lower cost and in an environmentally friendly manner.
 In particularly preferred embodiment, the first and second polymer layers are not polymer
 foam materials. Even preferred, the tray consists of a structure of a first inner polymer layer, a
 second polymer layer and an outer aluminium layer in the thicknesses as given above.

                                                -5
The shape of the tray of the invention is of no particular significance. All suitable and stan
dard shapes of tray for holding, for example, foodstuffs can be used, i.e. with round, rectangu
lar or square cross-sections, for example.
According to the invention, it may be particularly preferable that first of all an aluminium tray
of suitable size and shape and with a wall thickness in accordance with the invention is manu
factured. On the inside of that tray, a thin polymer film about 20 - 40 pm thick can be applied
by single or double-sided lamination. That polymer layer serves as a sealing medium. The
sealing rim produced in this way is stable, even though there are only relatively thin PP and
aluminium layers present.
A second polymer layer, which in accordance with the invention can advantageously be ob
tained by injection moulding processes, is applied to the thin polymer layer, which is applied
directly onto the aluminium. This thicker polymer layer can advantageously be manufactured
in a separate process step by injection moulding, in that the aluminium tray, with the second
polymer layer applied, is placed in the injection moulding mould, in order for the thicker
polymer layer to be produced in the injection moulding machine / the mould.
According to the invention, it may further be contemplated that the thicker first inner polymer
layer is also used in the sealing region, but only fills out the interior of the tray body. "Sealing
region" here means the region by which a connection to a lid or cover can be made in an
appropriate manner. A thin aluminium foil, for example, which is fused with the sealing re
gion of the food tray, can serve as a cover.
In addition to the methods of producing the polymer layers explicitly mentioned (single or
double-sided lamination, injection moulding), any other suitable method known in the state of
the art for producing polymer layers can also be used in accordance with the invention.

                                                -6
The first inner polymer layer and the second polymer layer may have different chemical com
positions and may accordingly differ in their chemical and physical properties. It is, however,
likewise contemplated in accordance with the invention that the two polymer layers have the
same or a similar chemical structure and accordingly have substantially the same or similar
chemical and physical properties.
Further features and advantages of the tray of the invention will become clear from the fol
lowing detailed description of a preferred embodiment, with reference to the Figures, where
Fig. I is a cross-section of a tray in accordance with the invention; and
Fig. 2 is an enlarged partial view of the cross-section of Fig. 1, especially of the upper part of
the tray comprising the sealing region.
Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the tray of the invention will be explained in the following, tak
ing a preferred embodiment as an example.
Fig. 1 is a schematic view of the complete cross-section of a tray in accordance with the in
vention 1. Fig. 2 shows a detail of the cross-section of the tray 1 enlarged on a scale of 20:1,
which is marked with a circle in the upper right-hand corner of Fig. 1. The tray comprises a
first inner polymer layer 2, a second polymer layer 3 and an outer aluminium layer 4. Fig. 2
 likewise shows a schematic view of a lid 6 and a sealing region 5, which comprises the outer
 aluminium layer 4, the first polymer layer 2 and the second polymer layer 3. The lid 6 is
 applied on the sealing region 5 and is sealed thereon.
 The features of the invention disclosed in the above description and in the claims and drawing
 can be essential to implementing the invention in its various embodiments both individually
 and in any combination.

                                               -7
Claims
    1. A tray comprising, in this order: a first inner polymer layer, a second polymer layer
       and an outer aluminium layer, wherein the tray has a sealing region on the upper
       peripheral rim formed at least by the first polymer layer, wherein the tray can be
       sealed with a lid.
    2. The tray as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first inner polymer layer has a thickness in
       a range from 100 - 1000 pm, preferably 200 - 600 pm, even preferably 200 - 400 pm
       and further preferably 250 - 350 pm.
    3. The tray as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the second polymer layer has a thickness
       in a range from 10 - 40 pm, preferably 25 - 35 pm.
    4. The tray as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the outer aluminium layer
       has a thickness in a range from. 20 - 80 pm, preferably 40 - 80 pm, still preferably 40
       60 pm.
    5. The tray as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the first inner polymer
       layer and/or the second polymer layer comprises polypropylene and/or polyethylene,
       preferably polypropylene.
    6. The tray as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the first inner polymer
        layer is a layer produced by injection moulding.
    7. The tray as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the second polymer layer
        is a layer applied by lamination and/or coextrusion.

                                      -8
8. The use of a tray as claimed in any of the preceding claims for holding foodstuffs,
   especially animal food.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
