ABSTRACT
          An orthopaedic assembly. The orthopaedic assembly includes a first member
adapted to be coupled to a bone and an adjustable connector assembly including an
adjuster having a threaded end and a tapered end. The assembly also includes an
articulation component including a bearing surface and adapted to be coupled to the
tapered end of the adjustable connector assembly. The threaded end is adapted to engage
the fixation plate.

    1/6
                10
14
          12
             13
   Fig. 1

                                                 1
ADJUSTABLE HEIGHT ARTHROPLASTY PLATE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]          This application CLAIMS priority to U.S. Prov. App. No. 61/706916 filed
September 28, 2012, entitled "Adjustable Height Arthroplasty Plate," which is incorporated
by reference herein in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          The present invention relates generally to the field of orthopedics, and, more
particularly, to an arthroplasty plate for repairing fractures of an end of a long bone.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]          A natural shoulder joint may undergo degenerative changes for a variety of
reasons, for instance arthritis. Alternatively, a shoulder joint may be fractured or otherwise
damaged by an external force. When a shoulder joint is sufficiently degenerated or
damaged it may be necessary to replace the natural joint with a prosthetic shoulder joint.
Conventional shoulder prostheses comprise a humeral prosthesis, optionally with a glenoid
prosthesis. For total or reverse arthroplasty a glenoid component is implanted, however for
hemiarthroplasty the humeral component articulates against the natural glenoid cavity.
[0004]          When the upper extremity of the humerus is fractured, the humerus
generally breaks into several pieces, typically three or four. In particular, for a four part
fracture, the humeral head splits off at the level of the anatomical neck, the greater and
lesser tuberosities are separated from the humerus shaft below the tuberosities and the
tuberosities are separated from one another along the bicipetal groove. As there is no
longer a blood supply to the humeral head necrosis may begin. For repair of a three-part or
four-part fracture, where the blood supply to the humeral head is damaged, the humeral
head is replaced, and the greater and lesser tuberosities are reattached to the humeral shaft.
Typically, the humeral component of a shoulder prosthesis comprises a stem for insertion
into a bore extending into the intramedullary canal of the humerus, generally along the

                                                   2
longitudinal axis of the bone, and an articulation component, which may be a convex
bearing head in the case of total arthroplasty or a concave cup in the case of reverse
arthroplasty. Typically, the articulation component is coupled to a neck portion of the stem,
which extends from the intramedullary canal at an inclined angle relative to the longitudinal
axis of a distal portion of the stem in order to recreate the anatomy of the natural joint.
Commonly, humeral stem prostheses are secured in position within the intramedullary bore
using bone cement. Alternatively, the stem may be coated with a material which
encourages bone growth to hold the stem in position, such as Porocoat @ or
hydroxyapatite. One such humeral stem prosthesis is commercially available from DePuy
Orthopaedics, Inc under the trademark Global FX.
[0005]           As an alternative to humeral stem implants, it is known to repair some types
of proximal humeral fracture using an intramedullary nail extending along a bore formed
within the intramedullary canal. Screws pass from outside of the humerus, through holes
formed within the nail and into the humeral head and the tuberosities. This type of fixation
also suffers from vascular damage in the intramedullary canal. Furthermore, a significant
drawback is that because the humeral head is not replaced the nail must be inserted through
a hole formed in the articular cartilage of the humeral head. A plug must be inserted into
the hole to restore the bearing surface.
[0006]           For the repair of fractures of the femoral neck it is known to provide a form
of prosthesis generally known as a thrust plate prosthesis. One such form of thrust plate
prosthesis is disclosed within PCT patent publication W02007/024980-A2. The prosthesis
comprises a plate portion to be attached to the lateral extemal surface of the proximal
femur.
[0007]           One issue in dealing with long-limb arthroplasty, is accommodating various
anatomic sizes. This becomes even more of a challenge when the desired sizes of linking
components that must engage and disengage and be mechanically stable. Also, surgeons
desiring the ability to adjust intra-operatively creates additional issues as does the desire by
surgeons to have infinite adjustability, not finite size offerings.

                                                3
[0008]          It is an object of embodiments of the present invention to obviate or mitigate
one or more of the problems of the prior art, whether identified herein or elsewhere.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0009]          According to one embodiment of the present invention, an orthopaedic
assembly is provided. The assembly includes a first member adapted to be coupled to a
bone and an adjustable connector assembly including an adjuster having a threaded end
and a tapered end. The assembly further includes an articulation component including a
bearing surface and adapted to be coupled to the tapered end of the adjustable connector
assembly. The threaded end is adapted to engage the fixation plate.
[0010]          According to another embodiment of the present invention, an arthroplasty
plate is provided. The arthroplasty plate includes a fixation plate adapted to be fixed to a
surface of a bone, having a recess with a plurality of tapers and an adjustable connector
assembly including an adjuster having a plurality of tapers on a first end a taper on a
second end. An articulation component is also included and has a bearing surface and
adapted to be coupled to the tapered second end of the adjustable connector assembly. The
plurality of tapers are adapted to engage at least one of the plurality of tapers in the recess
of the fixation plate.
[0011]          According to yet another embodiment of the present invention, a method of
repairing a fractured end of a bone includes removing fractured portions of an articulating
bone surface at the end of a bone. The method further includes securing a fixation plate to
a lateral surface of the fractured end of the bone. The fixation plate is coupled to adjustable
connector assembly, which includes an adjuster having a threaded end and a tapered end.
The adjuster is threaded into or out of a threaded bore of the fixation plate to adjust the
length of the adjuster extending from the bore of the fixation plate. The position of the
adjuster is locked within the threaded bore.

                                                 4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]          FIG. 1 is a view in a frontal plane of an arthroplasty plate according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0013]          FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of the arthroplasty plate of FIG. 1.
[0014]          FIG. 3 is an exploded view of the arthroplasty plate according to FIG. 1.
[0015]          FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of an arthroplasty plate according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
[0016]          FIG. 5 is an exploded view of the arthroplasty plate of FIG. 4.
[0017]          FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of an arthroplasty plate according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
[0018]          FIG. 7 is an exploded view of the arthroplasty plate of FIG. 6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]          Like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the following
description and the accompanying drawings.
[0020]          The below description will be given with respect to a humeral prosthesis,
and more particularly, a hemiarthroplasty plate. However, it should be understood that the
present invention may be used in other types of prosthesis and that the hemiarthroplasty
plate is used as an example only. For example, instead of a fixation plate, a stem or other
arthroplasty component could be used. And, any articulation member, not just humeral
heads could be used as well.
[0021]          Referring first to Figure 1, this is a view in a frontal plane of an assembled
arthroplasty plate 10 for repair of a fractured proximal humerus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. The arthroplasty plate comprises a fixation plate (or

                                               5
first member of an orthopaedic assembly) 12 for attachment to a surface of the bone, in this
case, a lateral external portion of a proximal humerus of a patient. To aid in the fixation to
the bone, the fixation plate 12 may include a plurality of fixation holes 13 adapted to
receive bone screws (not shown). An articulation component 14 replaces the natural
humeral head. The articulation component 14 comprises a convex bearing surface and is
sized and shaped to articulate with either the natural glenoid surface or an implanted
glenoid prosthesis to reconstruct the shoulder joint. The articulation component 14 is
coupled to the fixation plate 12 via a connector assembly 16 positioned in a bore formed in
the proximal humerus.
[0022]           Referring now to Figure 2, this illustrates a cross sectional view of the
connector assembly of the arthroplasty plate of Figure 1 to better illustrate details of the
connector assembly 16. In this embodiment, the connector assembly 16 is an adjustable
assembly to allow the user to adjust the neck length of the arthroplasty plate 10. The
adjustable connector assembly 16 includes an adjuster 18, a locking screw 20, collar 22,
and assembly screw 24. The collar 22 is used as a placeholder or substitute for the larger
suture collar (FIG. 4).
[0023]           Referring to both Figures 2 and 3, the various features of the adjustable
connector assembly 16 will be further described. The adjuster 18 includes a first end 26
and a second end 28. The first end 26 includes a connection feature 30 adapted to couple
to a corresponding connection feature 32 of the collar 22. In the illustrated embodiment,
the connection feature 30 of the first end 26 is a male taper and the connection feature 32
of the collar 22 is a female taper. According to some embodiments, the male and female
tapers are locking tapers, adapted to lock the adjuster 18 to the collar 22. In some
embodiments, the adjuster 18 may lock directly into the articulation component 14. In
those embodiments, the connection feature 30 of the first end 26 of the adjuster 18 is a
male taper and is adapted to fit into a corresponding tapered recess in the articulation
component 14. The adjuster 18 also includes a through bore 29 extending between the first
end 26 and the second end 28.
[0024]           The second end 28 of the adjuster 18 includes a connection feature 34
adapted to connect to a corresponding connection feature 36 in the fixation plate 12. In the

                                                6
illustrated embodiments of Figures 2 and 3, the connection feature 34 of the second end 28
is a thread and the connection feature 36 in the fixation plate 12 is a corresponding thread
form. In use, the adjuster 18 is inserted into through bore 38 in the fixation plate 12. As
shown, the through bore 38 is threaded so as to engage the threads of the connection
feature 34 of the second end 28. Once the adjuster 18 is at the desired length, the locking
screw 20 is screwed into the connection feature 36 of the fixation plate 12, locking the
adjuster 18 into place. In order to lock the adjuster 18 into place, the locking screw 20
includes a bore 37 and external threads 39. The external threads 39 of the locking screw
20 engage the threaded through bore 38 of the fixation plate 12, as shown in FIG. 2. The
adjuster 18 and the locking screw 20 are locked relative to each other and to the fixation
plate 12 on the principal of a locking nut. The adjuster thread 34 is in contact with the top
flank of the threads of feature 36 of the plate 12 and the locking screw thread 39 is in
contact with the opposite or bottom flank of the threads of the plate 12, making relative
movement not possible. The collar 22 is then placed over the first end 26 of the adjuster
18. The tapered connection feature 32 of the collar 22 is then locked into place with the
tapered connection feature 30 of the first end 26 of the adjuster 18. The articulation
component 14 may then be placed onto the collar 22.
[0025]          The assembly screw 24 includes a threaded end 40 and the articulation
component 14 includes a corresponding threaded opening 42 (shown in Figure 2). After
the articulation component 14 is placed onto the collar 22, the assembly screw 24 is
inserted through the bores 37, 29, 38 of the locking screw 20, adjuster 18, and fixation
plate, respectively. The threaded end 40 of the assembly screw 24 then threads into the
threads of the threaded opening 42 of the articulation component 14, locking all of the
pieces together.
[0026]          Turning now to FIGS. 4 and 5, another embodiment of the present invention
is illustrated. As shown, the arthroplasty plate assembly 10 includes a fixation plate 12,
articulation component 14, an assembly screw 24, a locking screw 20, an adjuster 18, and a
collar 22a. In this embodiment, all the features are the same, with the exception that the
collar 22a is a plate, having a flange 44 that extends outwardly and abuts an outwardly
extending flange 46 (of FIG. 5) of the articulation component 14.

                                                7
[0027]          Turning now to FIGS. 6 and 7, another embodiment of the present invention
is illustrated. This embodiment is of an arthroplasty plate 70 having a fixation plate 72, an
adjustable connector 74, and an articulation component 14 (of FIG. 1). In this
embodiment, the fixation plate 72 includes a through bore 78 that has a thread form that
creates series of tapers 80a, 80b, 80c. As illustrated, the thread form is a continuous
thread, but in other embodiments in can be discontinuous. In this embodiment, the
adjustable connector 74 is the adjuster and includes a plurality of corresponding tapers 82a,
82b, 82c. The user would insert the adjustable connector 74 into the through bore 78 of the
fixation plate 72 and, once at the appropriate length, impacted to engage the tapers 80a,
82a to lock the adjuster 74 into place in the fixation plate 72. In some embodiments,
multiple tapers would engage at the appropriate length. At the other end of the adjuster is a
male taper 84. The male taper 84 is adapted to fit inside a female taper (not shown) of the
articulation component 14 (of FIG 1). The articulation component 14 is then impacted
onto the adjuster 74, locking the tapers 84. In some embodiments, an assembly screw can
be used.
[0028]          The foregoing description of the invention is illustrative only, and is not
intended to limit the scope of the invention to the precise terms set forth. Further, although
the invention has been described in detail with reference to certain illustrative
embodiments, variations and modifications exist within the scope and spirit of the
invention as described and defined in the following claims.
[0029]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0030]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.

                                            8
[0031]      This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013234358. The full disclosure of AU 2013234358 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                9
CLAIMS
1.        An orthopaedic assembly comprising:
          a first member adapted to be coupled to a bone;
          an adjustable connector assembly including an adjuster having a threaded end and
a tapered end; and
          an articulation component including a bearing surface and adapted to be coupled
to the tapered end of the adjustable connector assembly;
          wherein the threaded end is adapted to engage the fixation plate.
2.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 1, wherein the fixation plate includes a
threaded throughbore and the adjustable connector further including a locking screw
having external threads adapted to engage the first member.
3.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 2, wherein the locking screw has a
throughbore and the adjustable connector further includes an assembly screw adapted to fit
through the throughbore of the locking screw.
4.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 3, wherein the adjuster includes a throughbore
and the assembly screw is adapted to fit through the throughbore of the adjuster.
5.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 3, wherein the assembly screw includes a
threaded end and the articulation component includes a threaded recess adapted to engage
the threaded end.
6.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 3, wherein the adjustable connector further
includes a collar, the collar having a tapered throughbore adapted to engage the tapered
end of the adjuster.
7.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 6, wherein the collar is a plate having an
outwardly extending flange.

                                                 10
8.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 6, wherein the collar includes an outer
periphery having a locking taper and the articulating component having a tapered recess
adapted to lock into the collar.
9.        The orthopaedic assembly of claim 1, wherein the first member is a fixation plate
having a plurality of fixation holes adapted to receive bone screws.
10.       An arthroplasty plate comprising:
a fixation plate adapted to be fixed to a surface of a bone, having a recess with a plurality
of tapers;
          an adjustable connector assembly including an adjuster having a plurality of
tapers on a first end a taper on a second end; and
          an articulation component including a bearing surface and adapted to be coupled
to the tapered second end of the adjustable connector assembly;
          wherein the plurality of tapers are adapted to engage at least one of the plurality of
tapers in the recess of the fixation plate.
11.       The arthroplasty plate of claim 10, wherein the fixation plate includes a plurality
of fixation through holes adapted to receive bone screws.
12.       The arthroplasty plate of claim 10, wherein the fixation plate is adapted to be
fixed onto a humerus.
13.       The arthroplasty plate of claim 10, wherein the articulation component is adapted
to engage a glenoid.
14.       A method of repairing a fractured end of a bone, the method comprising:
          removing fractured portions of an articulating bone surface at the end of a bone;
          securing a fixation plate to a lateral surface of the fractured end of the bone, the
fixation plate being coupled to adjustable connector assembly including an adjuster having
a threaded end and a tapered end;
          threading the adjuster into or out of a threaded bore of the fixation plate to adjust
the length of the adjuster extending from the bore of the fixation plate; and
          locking the position of the adjuster within the threaded bore.

                                              11
15.       The method of claim 14, further comprising coupling an articulation component to
the tapered end of the adjuster.
16.       The method of claim 15, wherein the coupling an articulation component to the
tapered end of the adjuster includes inserting a collar over the tapered end of the adjuster
and inserting the articulation component onto an outer side of the collar.
17.       The method of claim 14, wherein locking the position of the adjuster within the
threaded bore includes threading a locking screw into the threaded bore.
18.       The method of claim 17, further comprising inserting an assembly screw through
the locking screw and the adjuster.
19.       The method of claim 18, wherein the inserting an assembly screw includes
inserting a threaded end of the assembly screw through the locking screw and the adjuster.
20.       The method of claim 19, further comprising threading the threaded end of the
assembly screw into a threaded recess of the articulation component.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
