   EFFICIENT LIPID DELIVERY TO HUMAN TEAR FILM USING A
                     SALT-SENSITIVE EMULSION SYSTEM
A salt-free emulsion for the treatment of dry eye and other ocular conditions is disclosed which
contains castor oil and does not contain olive oil which prolongs TBUT and provides superior
comfort.

       WO 2013/086449                                                               PCT/US2012/068615
      EFFICIENT LIPID DELIVERY TO HUMAN TEAR FILM USING A SALT-SENSITIVE
                                          EMULSION SYSTEM
                               By: Joseph G. Vehige and Peter A. Simmons
   CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial Nos.
   61/568,089, filed December 7, 2011 and 61/625,401 filed April 17, 2012, the disclosures of
   which are hereby incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
           The present invention is directed to artificial tears suitable for treating dry eye syndrome
 0 and other ocular conditions in a human or other mammal.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Typical symptoms of keratoconjunctivitis or dry eye include feelings of dryness, burning,
   and a sandy-gritty eye sensation that can worsen during the day. Symptoms may also be
   described as itchy, scratchy, stingy or tired eyes. Other symptoms include pain, redness, a
 5 pulling sensation, and pressure behind the eye. The damage to the eye surface resulting from dry
   eye increases discomfort and sensitivity to bright light-and both eyes usually are affected.
           Because blinking coats the eye with tears, symptoms are worsened by activities in which
   the rate of blinking is reduced due to prolonged use of the eyes. These activities include
   prolonged reading, computer usage, driving or watching television. Symptoms increase in
20 windy, dusty or smoky areas, in dry environments, high altitudes including airplanes, on days
   with low humidity, and in areas where an air conditioner, fan, or heater, is being used.
   Symptoms are less severe during cool, rainy, or foggy weather, and in humid places. Most
   people who have dry eyes experience mild irritation with no long-term effects. However, if the
   condition is left untreated or becomes severe, it can produce complications that can cause eye
25 damage, resulting in impaired vision or possibly in the loss of vision.
                                                      1

       WO 2013/086449                                                               PCT/US2012/068615
           Having dry eyes for a prolonged period of time can lead to tiny abrasions on the surface
   of the eyes. In advanced cases, the epithelium undergoes pathologic changes, namely squamous
   metaplasia and loss of goblet cells sometimes due to activation of T cells acting against those
   cells.. Some severe cases result in thickening of the corneal surface, corneal erosion, punctate
 5 keratopathy, epithelial defects, corneal ulceration, corneal neovascularization, corneal scarring,
   corneal thinning, and even corneal perforation. An abnormality of any one of the three layers of
   tears which produces an unstable tear film, may result in symptoms of keratitis sicca.
           Keratoconjunctivitis sicca is usually due to inadequate tear production. The aqueous tear
   layer is affected, resulting in aqueous tear deficiency or lacrimal hyposecretion. The lacrimal
 o gland does not produce sufficient tears to keep the entire conjunctiva and cornea covered by a
   complete layer. This usually occurs in people who are otherwise healthy. Increased age is
   associated with decreased tearing. This is the most common type found in postmenopausal
   women. Causes include idiopathic, congenital alacrima, xerophthalmia, lacrimal gland ablation,
   and sensory denervation. In rare cases, it may be a symptom of collagen vascular diseases,
 5 including rheumatoid arthritis, Wegener's granulomatosis, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
   Sj6gren's syndrome and autoimmune diseases associated with Sj6gren's syndrome are also
   conditions associated with aqueous tear deficiency. Drugs such as isotretinoin, sedatives,
   diuretics, tricyclic antidepressants, antihypertensives, oral contraceptives, antihistamines, nasal
   decongestants, beta-blockers, phenothiazines, atropine, and pain relieving opiates such as
 o morphine can cause or worsen this condition. Infiltration of the lacrimal glands by sarcoidosis or
   tumors, or postradiation fibrosis of the lacrimal glands can also cause this condition.
           Keratoconjunctivitis sicca can also be caused by abnormal tear composition resulting in
   rapid evaporation or premature destruction of the tears. When caused by rapid evaporation, it is
   termed evaporative dry eyes. In this condition, although the tear gland produces a sufficient
25 amount of tears, the rate of evaporation of the tears is too rapid. There is a loss of water from the
   tears that results in tears that are too "salty" or hypertonic. As a result, the entire conjunctiva and
   cornea cannot be kept covered with a complete layer of tears during certain activities or in
   certain environments.
                                                        2

       WO 2013/086449                                                            PCT/US2012/068615
           Aging is one of the most common causes of dry eyes. This is due to the fact that tear
   production decreases with age. It may be caused by thermal or chemical burns, or by
   adenoviruses. Diabetics are also at increased risk for dry eye.
           An eye injury or other problem with the eyes or eyelids, such as bulging eyes or a
 5 drooping eyelid, can cause keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Disorders of the eyelid can impair the
   complex blinking motion required to spread tears.
           About half of all people who wear contact lenses have dry eyes. This is because soft
   contact lenses, which float on the tear film that covers the cornea, absorb the tears in the eyes.
   Dry eye also occurs or gets worse after refractive surgeries, in which the corneal nerves are cut
 0 during the creation of a corneal flap, because the corneal nerves stimulate tear secretion. Dry
   eyes caused by these procedures usually disappear after several months.
           Abnormalities of the lipid tear layer caused by blepharitis and rosacea and abnormalities
   of the mucin tear layer caused by vitamin A deficiency, trachoma, diphtheric keratoconjunctivitis
   mucocutaneous disorders and certain topical medications may cause dry eye or
 5 keratoconjunctivitis sicca.
           Dry eyes can usually be diagnosed by the symptoms alone. Tests can determine both the
   quantity and the quality of the tears. A slit lamp examination can be performed to diagnose dry
   eyes and to document any damage to the eye. A Schirmer's test can measure the amount of
   moisture bathing the eye. This test is useful for determining the severity of the condition.
20         A variety of approaches can be taken to treatment, such as: avoidance of exacerbating
   factors, tear stimulation and supplementation, increasing tear retention, and eyelid cleansing and
   treatment of eye inflammation. For mild and moderate cases, supplemental lubrication is the
   most important part of treatment. Application of artificial tears every few hours can provide
   temporary relief.
25         Lubricating tear ointments can be used during the day, but they generally are used at
   bedtime due to poor vision after application. They contain white petrolatum, mineral oil, and
   similar lubricants. They serve as a lubricant and an emollient. Depending on the severity of the
                                                      3

      WO 2013/086449                                                                PCT/US2012/068615
  condition, ointments may be applied from every hour to just at bedtime. Ointments should not
  be used with contact lenses. Inflammation occurring in response to tears film hypertonicity can
  be suppressed by mild topical steroids or with topical immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine.
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
5          The present invention is comprised of an artificial tear emulsion of the following
  formulation:
           Table I
         [1]    POLYSORBATE z0                         .                                   Active
         Grade: NF Ph Eur
         [L]    CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOS                s.5                 % w:w             Active
                  SODIUM (LOW VISCOSITY
                7LFPH)
         Grnder Ph Eur USP
         Gra der Ph EuT USP
         [4]    PUIFTE                                   1                 w w             Preservative
         Grade:
                BORIC ACID                             .                 % ww              Buffer
         Grade: NF Phn Eur
         [5]    PEMULEN TR-2                         0.1                 %w w              Stabilizer
         Grade: NF
         [6]    CASTOR OIL                             .                 % w w
         Grade: Eu Ph USP
                ERYTHITOL                            t>25                % w/w             Excipient
         Gradc NF Ph Eur
                LEVOCARNITINE                        025                 %w w              Excipient
         Grade     Ph Eur USP
         [7]    SODIUMv HYDROXIDE                    73                  pH                pH Adjust
         Grader NF P1 Ewu
         [S]    WATER FOR INJECTION i100~                                % wfw             QS Adjust
                PURIFIED WATER
         Grade: USP
          [1] PM# 12783. Super-Refined Polysrbate 80 from CRODA. Primary emulfer and denndcent
           2] Demuljpcent
         [3] Denueent and tonicity agent.
         [4] Stabilred Oxvchmlor CompLex (Punte Ad by assay value.
            [ Pernulen TR-2NF (Carboam Copolyner Type A, Tested to Ph EurI Sezondary emukifer.
         [    Lipophilic vehicle
          [7] pH rarge t  3
         [8] Hydrophiic vlucle
                                                         4

       WO 2013/086449                                                             PCT/US2012/068615
           The Table I formulation includes the concentrations of actives and/or excipients as
   disclosed above which can be in concentrations which vary from what is stated above. The
   variation may be such that the amounts are "about" what is stated above so long as that amount
   would be found bioequivalent by a regulatory agency such as the FDA or the EMEA.
 5         The formulation may be preserved or non-preserved (not containing Purite@), such as a
   unit dose version. This version would be the same as that in Table 1 except it would contain no
   Purite@.
           Some embodiments of the invention are included in the following paragraphs:
   1)      A composition useful as an artificial tear, which is a salt free emulsion comprising castor
 0 oil and specifically excludes olive oil and contains at least one active agent selected from the
   group consisting of polysorbate, carboxymethylcellulose and glycerine.
   2)      The composition of paragraph 1 wherein said mixture comprises from about 0.1% - 0.5%
   w/w, castor oil.
   3)      The composition of paragraphs 1 - 2 wherein castor oil is the only oil in the emulsion.
 5 4)      The composition of paragraphs 1 - 3 wherein the castor oil is emulsified in an aqueous
   phase.
   5)      The composition of paragraph 4 wherein the castor oil is present in about 0.25 % w/w .
   6)      The composition of paragraphs 4 - 5 further including a primary and a secondary
   emulsifier.
20 7)      The composition of paragraphs 1 - 6 wherein the composition contains a preservative.
   8)      The composition of paragraph 7 wherein the preservative is selected from the group
   consisting of PURITE and benzalkoniuim chloride.
   11.     The composition of paragraph 8 wherein the preservative is PURITE is present in a
   concentration of about 0.0 1% w/v.
                                                     5

       WO 2013/086449                                                              PCT/US2012/068615
   12.     An emulsion for use in treating dry eye wherein the emulsion is salt-free and comprises
   castor oil, polysorbate 80, carboxymethylcellulose and glycerine.
   13.     The composition of paragraph 12 wherein the emulsion also contains the emulsifier
   pemulin.
 5 14.     The emulsion of paragraphs 12 - 13 further comprising erythritol and levocarnitine.
   15.     An emulsion for treating dry eye as shown in Table 1.
   16.      A method of treating dry eye comprising administration of any one of the compositions
   or emulsions of paragraphs 1 - 15.
   17. A composition for the treatment of dry eye or keratoconjunctivitis sicca wherein the
 0 composition comprises about 0.5% w/w Polysorbate 80, about 0.5% w/w
   carboxymethylcellulose, about 1.0% w/w glycerine, about 0.6% w/w boric acid, about 0.1% w/w
   pemulin, about 0. 2 5 % w/w castor oil, about 0. 2 5 % w/w erythritol, about 0. 2 5 % w/w
   levocarnitine, sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to about 7.3 and water.
   18. The composition of claim 17 further comprising 0.01% Purite@.
 5 19. The composition of claim 17 wherein the composition is applied topically to an eye which is
   suffering from dry eye.
   20. The composition of claim 17 wherein the composition is applied topically to an eye to
   alleviate the symptoms of dry eye.
   21. The composition of claim 17 wherein the composition is applied topically to an eye to
20 prevent dry eye syndrome.
              As used herein, the term "effective amount" or "effective dose" means an amount
   sufficient to achieve the desired result on the process or condition, and it accordingly will depend
   on the ingredient and the desired result. Nonetheless, once the desired effect is known,
   determining the effective amount is within the skill of a person skilled in the art.
                                                       6

        WO 2013/086449                                                             PCT/US2012/068615
              "Formulation," "composition," and "preparation" as used herein are equivalent terms
   referring to a composition of matter suitable for pharmaceutical use (i.e., producing a therapeutic
   effect as well as possessing acceptable pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties).
              The term "prevent" as used herein refers to a decrease in the occurrence of
 5 dermatological symptoms (e.g., urticardial wheals) in a patient. The prevention may be complete
   (i.e., no detectable symptoms) or partial, so that fewer symptoms are observed than would likely
   occur absent treatment.
              As used herein, the terms "prevent" and "treat" are not intended to be absolute terms.
   Treatment can refer to any delay in onset, e.g., reduction in the frequency or severity of
 0 symptoms, amelioration of symptoms, improvement in patient comfort, reduction in symptoms
   of dry eye, and the like. The effect of treatment can be compared to an individual or pool of
   individuals not receiving a given treatment, or to the same patient before, or after cessation of,
   treatment.
              The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein refers to that amount of the
 5 composition or agent in a composition sufficient to ameliorate one or more aspects of the
   disorder.
              Therapeutic efficacy can also be expressed as "-fold" increase or decrease. For
   example, a therapeutically effective amount can have at least a 1.2-fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 5-fold,
   or more effect over a control.
20            "Treatment" as used herein includes any cure, amelioration, or prevention of a disease.
   Treatment may prevent the disease from occurring; inhibit the disease's spread; relieve the
   disease's symptoms fully or partially remove the disease's underlying cause, shorten a disease's
   duration, or do a combination of the above. "Treating" or "treatment" as used herein (and as
   well-understood in the art) also broadly includes any approach for obtaining beneficial or desired
25 results in a subject's condition, including clinical results. Beneficial or desired clinical results
   can include, but are not limited to, alleviation or amelioration of one or more symptoms or
   conditions, diminishment of the extent of a disease, stabilizing (i.e., not worsening) the state of
   disease, prevention of a disease's transmission or spread, delay or slowing of disease
                                                      7

        WO 2013/086449                                                              PCT/US2012/068615
   progression, amelioration or palliation of the disease state, diminishment of the reoccurrence of
   disease, and remission, whether partial or total and whether detectable or undetectable.
               "Treating" and "treatment" as used herein may include prophylactic treatment.
   Treatment methods include administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
 5 active agent. The administering step may consist of a single administration or may include a
   series of administrations. The length of the treatment period depends on a variety of factors,
   such as the severity of the condition, the age of the patient, the concentration of active agent, the
   activity of the compositions used in the treatment, or a combination thereof. It will also be
   appreciated that the effective dosage of an agent used for the treatment or prophylaxis may
 0 increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment or prophylaxis regime. Changes in
   dosage may result and become apparent by standard diagnostic assays known in the art. In some
   instances, chronic administration may be required. For example, the compositions are
   administered to the subject in an amount and for a duration sufficient to treat the patient.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 5          Delivering lipids to the human tear film to supplement and enhance the native lipid layer,
   often deficient due to dysfunction of meibomian glands and other causes, is a recognized strategy
   in treating signs and symptoms of dry eye. This is in theory especially beneficial in low
   humidity or when other internal/external factors increase tear film evaporation. Excessive loss of
   water from the tear film causes an increase in salt content and causes hyperosmotic stress to the
20 cells of the ocular surface.
            The native lipid layer is very thin and the total volume of lipid is a small fraction of the
   total tear film volume. To enhance the structure and function of the lipid layer by topical
   application of a lipid-containing drop requires only a small volume of oil to be delivered; excess
   lipid will displace and disrupt the total aqueous volume, by far the greatest component of tears.
25 It is also necessary that the lipid be delivered quickly, during the brief contact time of a topical
   eye drop. Finally, the lipid delivered needs to become established as part of the native lipid
   layer, at the air interface.
                                                       8

       WO 2013/086449                                                               PCT/US2012/068615
            The challenge of lipid release from an emulsion has been approached by using substantial
   amounts of lipid (1-5%) and/or building an emulsion system that readily separates. The
   disadvantage of this approach includes: the product requires shaking, the clarity of the emulsion
   is greatly reduced, the total volume of lipid delivered to the eye is potentially large and variable
 5 and tolerability can be lower than an fully aqueous eye drop.
            An alternate means of lipid release involves the use of a salt-sensitive emulsion system in
   a product intended for topical use that is largely free of salt. This system uses a surfactant and
   viscosity-increasing polymer to hold the lipid (eg. castor oil) in a stable sub-micron emulsion.
   When mixed with human tear, the natural salt content (often further elevated in dry eye) is
 0 sufficient to rapidly cause a drop in product viscosity due to action on the polymer structure.
   This loss of viscosity allows lipid release to occur to a significantly greater degree and much
   faster.
            Efficiency of lipid delivery can be defined as the amount of lipid released from the
   emulsion, as a proportion of total lipid content, over time under standard test conditions.
 5          Efficiency of lipid delivery in the presence of salt is supported, for example, using simple
   laboratory methods. Specifically, when diluted with water, this system shows a loss of viscosity
   proportional to water volume added. When exposed to salt (NaCl) by mixing 1:1 with even a
   weak saline solution (30 mOsm) a loss of viscosity of over 60 % occurs vs. 50% when mixed
   with water. Higher saline strength (up to about 600 mOsm) caused significantly greater loss of
20 viscosity, confirming action of salt on polymer structure.
            The release of lipid was demonstrated using a controlled centrifuge with real-time
   integrated optical detector (Lumisizer). During 2 minutes of 4000 RPM stress, uniformity of the
   emulsion was confirmed by equivalent optical transmission from bottom to top of the centrifuge
   sample holder for both full strength and water-diluted product. However, diluting the product
25 with saline (volume and concentration replicating on-eye use) showed a clear and remarkable
   change in product uniformity consistent with lipid release and migration to the top of the sample
   holder, consistent with "floating" to the air interface. Surprisingly and beneficially, this may
   occur without coalescence (no increase in average lipid droplet size) allowing the lipid to mix
                                                      9

       WO 2013/086449                                                             PCT/US2012/068615
   into the native layer more effectively. Average particle (lipid droplet size) was unchanged when
   saline was added (Horiba)
           Clinical results have confirmed that the new lipid emulsion system works effectively in
   prolonging TBUT (tear break-up time) yet demonstrates tolerability and comfort improvements
 5 vs. an emulsion more optimized for drug delivery.
           The benefits of using a salt-sensitive emulsion system as shown in Table I, that is largely
   free of salts, include but are not limited to:
            1) No need to shake the product-excellent in bottle stability and uniformity;
           2) Efficient delivery of lipid on eye due to the salt-induced decrease in viscosity and
 0              destabilization of emulsion structure enabling more efficient lipid release;
           3) Improved tolerability by lowering total lipid content;
           4) Effective stabilization and supplementation of the native lipid layer; and
           5) Possibly greater delivery of beneficial lipid in patients with higher tear salt content, a
                so-called "smart" vehicle.
 5         The      incorporation     of    osmoprotectants    (1-carnitine    and     erythritol)   and
   humectants/lubricants (glycerin and carboxymethylcellulose increases the clinical usefulness of
   this product to a broader range of dry eye patients than other emulsion systems targeting lipid
   deficiency or meibomian gland dysfunction.
   Example 1 - A Multicenter, Investigator-masked, Randomized, 4-Arm, Parallel-group Study to
20 Evaluate the Safety, Efficacy, and Acceptability of a Unit-dose Eye Drop Formulation in
   Subjects With Dry Eye Disease
           The objective of the study was to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and acceptability of the
   formulation of Table 1, but without containing Purite®, referred to as a Next Generation
   Emulsion Unit-dose or ("NGE UD") in subjects with signs and symptoms of dry eye disease.
25
                                                     10

       WO 2013/086449                                                             PCT/US2012/068615
   Methodology
           This was a multicenter, investigator-masked, randomized, active-controlled, 4-arm,
   parallel group study designed to compare the safety, efficacy, and acceptability of NGE UD to
   commercially available OPTIVETM Sensitive Preservative-free Lubricant Eye Drops Unit-dose
 5 ("OPTIVE UD"), NGE UD to Next Generation Emulsion Multidose ("NGE MD") (same
   formulation as Table 1 but with Purite@) , and NGE MD to OPTIVETM Lubricant Eye Drops
   Multidose ("OPTIVE MD").
           The planned study duration was 30 days for each subject and consisted of up to 3
   scheduled visits (days 1 [baseline], 7, and 30 [exit]). On day 1, eligible subjects with signs and
 0 symptoms of dry eye disease were assigned according to a 2:2:1:1 treatment allocation ratio to
   use NGE UD, OPTIVE UD, NGE MD, or OPTIVE MD, respectively. The study randomization
   was stratified by baseline Ocular Surface Disease Index© (OSDI) score (mild/moderate
   symptoms = score of 18 to 32; severe symptoms = score of > 32 to 65). Approximately 300
   subjects were to be enrolled at 13 to 14 sites within the USA in order to have 288 completed
 5 subjects assuming a dropout rate of approximately 5%. Subjects were instructed to instill 1 to 2
   drops of their assigned study product in each eye, as needed, but at least 2 times daily for 30
   days.
   Number of Subjects (Planned and Enrolled)
   Approximately 300 subjects were planned to be enrolled in this study. A total of 315 subjects
20 were enrolled.
   Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Eligibility
   Diagnosis/Subjects with signs and symptoms of dry eye disease
   Key Inclusion Criteria:
           Male or female subjects, at least 18 years of age, with a baseline (day 1) OSDI score of>
25 18 and < 65 (based on a 0 to 100 scale) were eligible for enrollment. Subjects must have been
   using topical ophthalmic drops for dry eye at least twice daily, for at least 3 months prior to
                                                     11

       WO 2013/086449                                                              PCT/US2012/068615
   baseline, on average. If there was daily use of RESTASIS@ Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion,
   it must have been in use for > 6 months. Three consecutive tear break-up time (TBUT) tests < 10
   seconds in at least 1 eye at baseline were required. Using the modified National Eye Institute
   (NEI) Grid, all subjects had to have at least a Grade 1 staining in at least 1 of the 5 zones of the
 5 cornea or in at least 1 of the 6 zones of the conjunctiva that is related to dry eye in at least 1 eye
   at baseline.
   Key Exclusion Criteria:
            Key exclusion criteria included a Schirmer test (with anesthesia) < 2 mm in either eye at
   baseline; corneal or conjunctival staining score of 5 (modified NEI Grid) at baseline in any of the
 0 5 corneal or 6 conjunctival zones of either eye; use of systemic medications that could have
   affected a dry eye condition or vision, unless that medication had been used at the same dose for
   at least 3 months prior to study enrollment and the dosage was not expected to change during the
   course of the study; history of anterior segment surgery or trauma that could have affected
   corneal sensitivity (eg, cataract surgery, laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis [LASIK],
 5 photorefractive keratectomy, or any surgery involving a limbal or corneal incision) within 12
   months prior to baseline; and current use of, and/or use within 2 weeks prior to baseline, and/or
   likely use during the study period of any topical ophthalmic medications (eg, topical ophthalmic
   steroids, glaucoma drops, any topical cyclosporine product other than Restasis@. Subjects who
   discontinued use of daily Restasis® less than 3 months prior to baseline were excluded from the
_0 study.
   Duration of Treatment: The total duration of exposure to the study product (drops) for each
   subject was 30 days. The visit schedule consisted of a baseline visit (day 1) and 2 follow-up
   visits on days 7 (± 3 days) and 30/early exit (± 7 days).
25
                                                      12

       WO 2013/086449                                                            PCT/US2012/068615
   Efficacy and Safety Measurements
   Efficacy: Primary - OSDI questionnaire score
   Secondary - TBUT (with fluorescein), corneal staining (modified NEI Grid, with fluorescein),
   conjunctival staining(modified NEI Grid, with lissamine green), and Schirmer test (with
 5 anesthesia)
   Other - Acceptability Questionnaire and Study Product Usage Questionnaire
   Safety:
   The safety measures were adverse events, biomicroscopy, and distance visual acuity.
   Statistical Methods:
 0          The intent-to-treat (ITT) population consisted of all randomized subjects and was used
   for analyses of efficacy data based on the treatment randomized. The safety population consisted
   of all treated subjects and was used for analyses of all safety data based on the actual treatment
   received. The per-protocol (PP) population consisted of randomized subjects who had no major
   protocol violations, as determined prior to database lock.
 5          The primary efficacy variable was the change from baseline in OSDI score at day 30 in
   the ITT population. The primary efficacy analysis was performed on the change from baseline in
   OSDI score at day 30 via a 2-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment and
   baseline OSDI stratification as the main effects.
            Last observation carried forward (LOCF) was used to impute missing data.
20 Noninferiority was tested using a 2-sided confidence interval (CI). The treatment difference and
   95% CI in change from baseline in OSDI score at day 30 between NGE UD and OPTIVE UD
   (NGE UD minus OPTIVE UD) were calculated based on the ANOVA model. Non-inferiority
   was established if the upper limit of the 95% CI was less than the prespecified margin of 7.3.
                                                     13

       WO 2013/086449                                                            PCT/US2012/068615
            The Secondary efficacy measures included TBUT, corneal staining, conjunctival staining,
   and Schirmer test. The raw values of these measures were summarized for the ITT population,
   with missing data imputation using LOCF at each scheduled follow-up visit. The treatment
   difference and 95% CI for between-treatment comparisons were calculated. The treatment
 5 differences and 95% CIs in change from baseline in OSDI score at day 30 between NGE UD and
   NGE MD, NGE MD and OPTIVE MD were also analyzed as secondary efficacy variables.
            Acceptability was measured using the Acceptability Questionnaire, and product usage
   was measured using the Study Product Usage Questionnaire. Comparisons across groups were
   performed using ANOVA model with treatment and baseline OSDI stratification as the main
 0 effects.
            The safety variables included adverse events, biomicroscopy, and distance visual acuity.
   Since both eyes were treated, both eyes were included in the safety analyses. The Medical
   Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) nomenclature was used to code adverse events.
   The number and percent of subjects with clinically significant biomicroscopy findings at one or
 5 more visits in either eye were tabulated. The overall frequency distribution was analyzed using
   Pearson's chi-square test. For a clinically significant biomicroscopic finding (more than 1
   severity grade increase [worsening] from baseline) with an incidence rate of> 5% in any
   treatment group, the mean severity grade and the frequency distribution of severity scores were
   summarized at each scheduled visit.
20          Data from the eye with the worst severity at the scheduled visit was tabulated. For
   distance visual acuity data, the total numbers of letters read correctly were summarized based on
   the eye with worse change from baseline at each scheduled visit. The frequency distribution was
   analyzed using Pearson's chi-square test.
            A total of 315 subjects were enrolled in the study and included in the ITT population; 105
25 subjects in the NGE UD group, 103 subjects in the OPTIVE UD group, 51 subjects in the NGE
   MD group, and 56 subjects in the OPTIVE MD group. Overall, 310 (98.4%) subjects in the ITT
   population completed the study. Of the subjects included in the per protocol population,   9 9 .3 %
   (303/305) completed the study whereas 98.4% (310/315) of the subjects in the safety population
                                                     14

       WO 2013/086449                                                              PCT/US2012/068615
   completed the study. A total of 384 subjects were screened of which 69 subjects were screen
   failures.
            In the ITT population, the mean age of all subjects was 54.8 years (standard deviation
   14.33) with 83.2% (262/315) of subjects in the > 40 years age group. In addition, 81.0%
 5 (255/315) of all subjects were female and 84.4% (266/315) were Caucasian.
   Efficacy:
   - The primary efficacy endpoint was met. At day 30, no statistically significant difference was
   observed between the NGE UD and the OPTIVE UD groups in the mean change from baseline
   in OSDI score (95% confidence interval [-5.42, 2.51]), in the ITT population. The NGE UD
 0 formulation was noninferior to the OPTIVE UD formulation in reducing the severity of
   symptoms of dryness as measured by the change from baseline in OSDI score.
   - Similar to the ITT population, there was no statistically significant difference between the NGE
   UD and OPTIVE UD groups of the PP population in the mean change from baseline in OSDI
   score at day 30. The 95% confidence interval at the day 30 visit was (-5.72, 2.37); with an upper
 5 limit that is lower than the clinically relevant margin of 7.3.
   - In all 4 treatment groups, there was a statistically significant difference (p < 0.001) in the mean
   change from baseline in OSDI score at the day 7 and day 30 visits for both the ITT and the PP
   population.
   - The NGE UD group was noninferior to the NGE MD group in the mean change from baseline
20 in OSDI score at day 30.
   - The NGE UD group was noninferior to the OPTIVE UD and NGE MD groups in the secondary
   efficacy measures of TBUT, corneal staining, conjunctival staining, and Schirmer test.
   - Overall, there were no statistically significant differences between the NGE UD and OPTIVE
   UD groups, NGE UD and NGE MD groups, or NGE MD and OPTIVE MD groups, in the mean
25 values for each question of the acceptability questionnaire at the day 7 and day 30 visits (except
   for question 5 in the NGE MD versus OPTIVE MD comparison at day 7 and NGE UD versus
                                                      15

       WO 2013/086449                                                            PCT/US2012/068615
   NGE MD comparison at day 30), and in the mean number of times per day that the study product
   was used during the week prior to the day 7 and day 30 visits.
   Safety:
   * At least 1 treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) of any causality was reported in 11.4%,
 5  15.5%, 13.7%,and 10.7% of subjects in the NGE UD, OPTIVE UD, NGE MD and OPTIVE MD
   groups, respectively.
   - No deaths were reported in the study. Two serious adverse events were reported (bile duct
   stone [NGE UD group] and ankle fracture [OPTIVE MD group]), none of which were treatment
   related in the opinion of the investigator
 o Overall 3 subjects discontinued from the study due to adverse events, 1 subject each in the NGE
   UD, NGE MD and OPTIVE MD groups.
   * Treatment-related TEAE were reported in 4.8%, 8.7%, 7.8%, and 5.4% of subjects in the NGE
   UD, OPTIVE UD, NGE MD, and OPTIVE MD groups, respectively. The most common
   treatment-related adverse events (preferred terms) across treatment groups were instillation site
 5 pain and vision blurred; NGE UD (3.8 %, 2.9%), OPTIVE UD (3.9%, 2.9%), NGE MD (3.9%,
   0.0%), and OPTIVE MD (3.6%, 1.8%).
   - In the majority of the subjects, no change was observed in the distance visual acuity at day 30
   for all 4 treatment groups.
   Conclusions
20          Efficacy: The results of this study demonstrate that the NGE UD formulation is non
   inferior to the OPTIVE UD formulation in reducing the severity of symptoms of dryness in
   subjects with mild to severe dry eye.
            Safety: NGE UD appeared to be well tolerated during the study. The most commonly
   reported treatment-related adverse events were instillation site pain and vision blurred.
25 Throughout the study, there were no treatment-related serious adverse events. The safety profile
                                                    16

    WO 2013/086449                                                         PCT/US2012/068615
was consistent with OPTIVE UD, OPTIVE MD, and NGE MD. This is supportive of the safety
of the NGE UD formulation in clinical use, and confirms the safety of the NGE MD formulation.
                                              17

       WO 2013/086449                                                             PCT/US2012/068615
   CLAIMS:
   1)      A composition useful as an artificial tear, which is a salt free emulsion comprising castor
   oil and specifically excludes olive oil and contains at least one active agent selected from the
   group consisting of polysorbate, carboxymethylcellulose and glycerine.
 5 2)      The composition of claim 1 wherein said mixture comprises from 0.1% - 0.5% w/w,
   castor oil.
   3)      The composition of claim 2 wherein castor oil is the only oil in the emulsion.
   4)      The composition of claim 3 wherein the castor oil is emulsified in an aqueous phase.
   5)      The composition of claim 4 wherein the castor oil is present in about 0.25% w/w.
 0 6)      The composition of claim 5 further including a primary and a secondary emulsifier.
   7)      The composition of claims 5 wherein the composition contains a preservative.
   8)      The composition of claim 7 wherein the preservative is selected from the group
   consisting of PURITE and benzalkoniuim chloride.
   11.     The composition of claim 8 wherein the preservative is Purite@ is present in a
 5 concentration of about 0.0 1% w/v.
   12.     An emulsion for use in treating dry eye wherein the emulsion is salt-free and comprises
   castor oil, polysorbate 80, carboxymethylcellulose and glycerine.
   13.     The composition of claim 12 wherein the emulsion also contains the emulsifier pemulin.
   14.     The emulsion of claim 13 further comprising erythritol and levocarnitine.
20 15.     An emulsion for treating dry eye as shown in Table 1.
   16.     A method of treating dry eye comprising administration of any one of the composition as
   shown in Table 1.
                                                     18

      WO 2013/086449                                                        PCT/US2012/068615
  17. The method of treating dry eye of claim 16 wherein the composition is preservative free.
  18. The method of treating dry eye of claim 16 wherein the method is applied at least once a day.
  19. The method of treating dry eye claim 17 wherein the composition alleviates the symptoms of
  dry eye syndrome.
5 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the composition treats and prevents dry eye syndrome.
                                                 19

