   Abstract
   An assembly for evaporating a volatile material is described, the assembly comprising a device
   and a refill which are detachable from one another:
   wherein the device comprises a magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an alternating
 5 current passed therethrough at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to substantially
   500KHz and one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one piece of heat
   conducting, non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal;
   and wherein the refill comprises at least one magnetic susceptor having a coercivity of
   substantially 50 ampere/metre (Hc) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (Hc) and a substantially
10 liquid-tight sealed reservoir containing the volatile material; wherein, in use, the magnetic
   susceptor(s) is arranged to heat the material predominately by magnetic hysteresis when the
   magnetic susceptor(s) is at least partially positioned in the induced magnetic field generated, in
   use, when said alternating current is passed through the induction coil. Refills, devices and
   methods of use are also described.

                                                      -1
                                   Device for Evaporatinq a Volatile Material
   The present invention relates to a device for evaporating a volatile material, for example a
   fragrance, pesticide, or a medicament.
 5
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an
   admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general knowledge in the
   field.
10 Devices are known for emitting volatile liquids into an atmosphere. In one known device,
   described in US Patent Publication No. 2002/0146243, a device having a housing is provided with
   a container for the volatile liquid, a wick extending from the container and an annular electrical
   heater located in the vicinity of the distal end of the wick to accelerate the evaporation of the
   volatile liquid from the wick. The container and wick are conventionally provided as a removable
15 refill and the device uses a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistor as the electrical
   heater. The device also has an electric plug by which it is plugged into a wall socket.
   However, the heater must be run at a high temperature in order to sufficiently heat the volatile
   liquid within the wick. Further, the position of the heater within the housing means that the heater
20 heats the wick as well as the surrounding device housing which provides two distinct drawbacks.
   Firstly, high levels of power consumption are required to get the electrical heater up to a
   satisfactory operating temperature to heat the wick to the temperature at which the volatile liquid
   can be emanated. Secondly, the mass of such an electrical heater and the surrounding device
   housing typically holds residual heat for a prolonged period after power to the heater has ceased,
25 as such if there is an appetite to modify the operation of the device, particularly to address anti
   habituation concerns associated with the emanated volatile liquid, such known devices are
   inherently slow to respond as removing power from the heater does not appreciably slow the
   emanation rate due to the residual heat.
30 Another known device can be found in International Publication No. WO 2005/112510, which
   describes an induction heating apparatus for the dissemination of volatile liquids. The device has
   a base module and a separate reservoir containing the volatile liquid. The base module has an
   upwardly-projecting cylindrical portion within which is a primary induction coil. The base of the
   reservoir has a recess which fits over the cylindrical portion of the base, around which is a
35 secondary induction coil composed of a short-circuited wire coil. When current is passed through
   the primary coil, the secondary coil heats up and thus heats the liquid to increase the rate of
   evaporation. However, this device heats all of the volatile liquid in the reservoir, resulting in a
   device which is slow to reach the ideal operating temperature and operates with high levels of

                                                         -2
   power consumption. Further, the device will continue to emit vapour after it has been switched off
   as the liquid in the reservoir will retain considerable residual heat and will take quite some time to
   cool. Furthermore, if the volatile liquid is a fragrance, heating the entire reservoir can degrade the
   quality of the fragrance over the life of the refill.
 5
   With the known devices as well as the Applicant's co-pending applications condensation in the
   device can occur due to the absence of sufficient airflow therethrough and/or the device itself
   being cool during operation.
10 It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an assembly for evaporating
   a volatile material, the assembly comprising a device and a refill which are detachable from one
15 another: wherein the device comprises a magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an
   alternating current passed therethrough at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to
   substantially 500KHz and one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one
   piece of heat conducting, non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat conducting, non
   magnetic metal; and wherein the refill comprises at least one magnetic susceptor having a
20 coercivity of substantially 50 ampere/metre (HC) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (HC) and a
   substantially liquid-tight sealed reservoir containing the volatile material; wherein, in use, the
   magnetic susceptor(s) is arranged to heat the material predominately by magnetic hysteresis
   when the magnetic susceptor(s) is at least partially positioned in the induced magnetic field
   generated, in use, when said alternating current is passed through the induction coil.
25
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the
   words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed
   to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".
30 Preferably the one or more volatile fluid emanation channels is provided in the form of one or
   more chimneys or the like that are open at one end to receive the evaporated volatile fluid and
   open at their other end to the environment surrounding the device. The chimney(s) may be
   rotatable and/or movable relative to the rest of the device and/or may be provided with one or
   more holes and/or windows any or all of which may be arranged to promote airflow into the
35 chimney and out into the environment surrounding the device.
   The heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal may be selected from any suitable non-ferrous metal.
   Preferably the heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal is selected from a metal readily available in

                                                     -3
   sheet foil form. Particularly preferably the heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal is selected from
   one of aluminium, silver, gold, platinum, tungsten, magnesium or copper. Most preferably the
   heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal is aluminium, of which aluminium foil is the preferred form.
   The aluminium sheet foil may be provided at any suitable thickness, although a thickness of
 5 between substantially 8pm to substantially 25pm is most preferred. The deposited heat
   conducting, non-magnetic metal is preferably vacuum metalised deposited at a suitable thickness,
   although a thickness of between substantially 0.1 pm to substantially 10pm is preferred.
   The heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal will hereinafter be referred to solely as "aluminium" for
10 the sake of brevity but it is to be understood that the inventor does not intend for this to be limiting
   on the invention disclosed herein, in other words, whilst aluminium is the most preferred heat
   conducting, non-magnetic metal all subsequent references to "aluminium" are to be construed as
   relating to any suitable non-ferrous metal that is heat-conducting and non-magnetic.
15 The aluminium may be provided in contact with the inner surface of the, or each, chimney in order
   to face the evaporated fluid.
   The deployment of aluminium foil and/or deposited aluminium is considered advantageous as it
   can reduce condensation in operation of the device by imparting heat to the chimney(s) to reduce
20 any temperature differential between the evaporated fluid and said chimney(s) as well as creating
   a temperature gradient in the device to promote air currents through the device to improve the
   emanation of the evaporated fluid.
   One key benefit of the deployment of aluminium foil and/or deposited aluminium compared to
25 using either an additional magnetic susceptor within the device around the volatile fluid emanation
   channel(s) or even a standard PTC thermistor is that the aluminium foil and/or deposited
   aluminium will not heat up by any appreciable or effective amount when exposed to the changing
   magnetic field induced by the induction coil as aluminium is non-magnetic and therefore is not
   capable of undergoing magnetic hysteresis. Furthermore, aluminium is very poor at eddy current
30 heating. However, the aluminium in the device may heat up considerably when a refill containing
   a magnetic susceptor is attached to the device such that the magnetic susceptor is within the
   induced magnetic field. Whilst not wishing to be bound by the following proposed hypothesis, the
   inventor of the present invention suspects that when the magnetic susceptor in the refill is present
   in the induced magnetic field the susceptor has such an affinity for the induced magnetic field that
35 it can force the magnetic field to be drawn through the aluminium and in doing so causes the
   aluminium to heat up. By selecting to correct quantity and location for the aluminium it is possible
   for the aluminium to heat to within approximately 50C of the susceptor temperature.

                                                       -4
   A further a key benefit of this arrangement is that the aluminium carries little mass and, therefore,
   has little ability to retain heat. Whereas the use of an additional magnetic susceptor within the
   device around the volatile fluid emanation channels or a standard PTC thermistor could be used
   to impart heat in the absence of a refill and for a period of time after the alternating current is
 5 stopped, the aluminium would rapidly dispose of its residual heat thus ensuring that the device
   remains cool to the touch post-use and thus improving its safety.
   Preferably the refill is provided with a membrane to substantially liquid-tight seal the reservoir.
   The membrane may be a gas-permeable membrane. Alternatively or additionally the membrane
10 may include one or more gas-permeable portions that can be exposed by the user of the
   assembly prior to insertion of the refill into the device.
   The refill may be provided with a pierceable film to substantially liquid-tight seal the reservoir and
   the device may be provided with a perforating element which is configured to pierce the film when
15 the refill is connected to the device. Alternatively or additionally, the refill may further comprise a
   lid which the perforating element may be configured to pierce when the refill is connected to the
   device.
   The device may be provided with more than one perforating element to pierce the refill in more
20 than one location on the refill.
   The evaporated material may emanate via a space formed between the perforating element and
   the pierced hole. However, preferably, the or each perforating element is hollow. This provides
   one or more passages for evaporated material to emanate outside of the refill.By providing the
25 refill with a fluid-permeable membrane and/or a pierceable film and/or lid the present invention
   allows different refills to be interchangeably used in a quick, and mess-free, way. As the refills can
   be so easily interchanged, the present invention is particularly suited to the evaporation of small
   amounts of material. In this case, the problems previously identified in relation to WO
   2005/112510 are less of an issue, because the amount of material being heated is small.
30 Furthermore the presence of a fluid-permeable membrane and/or a pierceable film and/or lid
   improves the safe operation of the assembly since the susceptor(s) can be retained underneath
   same to prevent ease of finger access thereto, this being beneficial with the susceptor(s) become
   hot following use.
35 In some embodiments, the magnetic susceptor may be embedded within the reservoir. Enclosing
   the susceptor within the reservoir, rather than having it exposed on an edge of the refill, minimises
   the potential for injury as the susceptor is less accessible and therefore is less likely to be
   accidently touched during use. Alternatively or additionally the reservoir may be lined in whole or

                                                     -5
   in part by the magnetic susceptor. As a further alternative or additional arrangement, the
   reservoir may be composed in whole or in part of the magnetic susceptor.
   Preferably, the magnetic susceptor is in the shape of a non-coiled strip. This way, the susceptor is
 5 less prone to heating by eddy currents and is instead designed to be heated predominately by
   hysteresis.
   Preferably, where the volatile material is a volatile liquid and/or a volatile gel the refill may further
   comprise a volatile material transport means for transporting and storing some of the volatile
10 liquid and/or gel.
   The purpose of the volatile material transport means is to allow the evaporation of the volatile
   liquid and/or gel to be better controlled. Preferably the susceptor(s) is placed in contact with the
   volatile material transport means, and particularly preferably the susceptor(s) is wholly or partially
15 embedded in the wick, such an arrangement means the heat emanating from the susceptor is
   largely contained within the volatile material transport means, and is not transmitted to the liquid
   and/or gel contained in the reservoir.
   In the context of the present invention the term volatile material transport means is used herein to
20 refer to any physical fluid transport conduit that permits the fluid to flow away from the reservoir
   toward the susceptor(s) without the assistance of gravity or powered means, in other words
   relying on capillary action, osmotic transfer, wicking action or the like to transport the fluid.
   Therefore the volatile material transport means in the present invention may be a fibrous
   substance such as a cellulose wick or the like or the volatile material transport means could be a
25 porous substance such as ceramic wick or the like. Alternatively the volatile material transport
   means may be a gel matrix or the like, and in this arrangement the reservoir and the volatile
   material transport means may be made from the same material and/or may be substantially
   integral with each other.
30 If a volatile material transport means is used, the volatile material transport means may at least
   partially line the reservoir.
   If a volatile material transport means is provided in the refill, then it may be preferable for the
   susceptor(s) to be provided in direct contact therewith. In some embodiments the susceptor(s)
35 may be at least partially embedded within the volatile material transport means. Alternatively or
   additionally, the susceptor(s) may surround a portion of the volatile material transport means.
   Most preferably however, the susceptor(s) is entirely embedded within the volatile material
   transport means.

                                                       -6
   One advantage of enclosing/embedding the susceptor(s) entirely within the volatile material
   transport means is that the heat emitted from the susceptor(s) is more effectively transferred to
   the adjacent volatile material in the volatile material transport means, and not to the entirety of the
   volatile material transport means to some or all of the reservoir. This is advantageous as where
 5 the volatile material is a fragrance, a medicament, a pest control material or an active
   pharmaceutical Ingredient, heating the entire reservoir can degrade the quality of the material
   over the life of the refill which is clearly undesirable.
   Enclosing the susceptor(s) entirely within the volatile material transport means also minimises the
10 potential for injury as the susceptor is less accessible and therefore is less likely to be accidently
   touched during use.
   Since heat in the susceptor(s) is induced no electrical connection needs to pass through the
   reservoir to the susceptor(s) eliminating the possibility of a resultant fluid leakage path.
15
   As the susceptor(s) is magnetic the susceptor(s) is predominately heated by magnetic hysteresis,
   and although some secondary eddy current heating may occur any eddy current heating is <50%
   of the heat generated in the magnetic susceptor(s), and preferably <40% of the heat generated in
   the magnetic susceptor(s) is from secondary eddy currents, and more preferably <35% of the
20 heat generated in the magnetic susceptor(s) is from secondary eddy currents, and most
   preferably less than <30% of the heat generated in the magnetic susceptor(s) is from secondary
   eddy currents.
   Hitherto the present invention the use of magnetic hysteresis as the predominant mechanism of
25 heating has not been explored, the explored "induction heating" mechanism is eddy current
   heating. In an eddy current heating system it is ultimately the resistance of the target (i.e. the
   susceptor) which is responsible for the dissipation of power as heat. Preferably the electrical
   resistance of the target is low and the external induction field induces many tiny voltages in the
   target. As the resistance is low, the current circulating in the target material is huge, hence heat
30 is produced. However the induced eddy current can also be used to do other forms of work
   instead of just producing heat, such as charging batteries for example.
   Efficient transfer of electrical current through an air gap or other thermally insulating medium is
   fundamental to many applications of induction. The induced current can be used to produce
35 resistive heating via eddy currents in a target on the opposite side of a thermally insulating
   material (e.g. air). Although induction heating applications are well known they have largely been
   applied to large white goods (e.g. Induction Hobs for cooking) or industrial processes (e.g.

                                                      -7
   Furnaces). In these applications, despite the relatively high power levels and frequencies
   needed, induction offers cost and efficiency advantages over more traditional methods (e.g.
   resistive or joule heating) due to its inherent ability to effectively cross insulating layers. However
   the associated cost and complexity would be uneconomical where smaller amounts of heat are
 5 required or where such conditions do not exist.
   One unwanted side effect of such eddy current induction processes is that some secondary
   magnetic hysteresis occurs which imparts a relatively small amount of generated heat. Heat
   generated by magnetic hysteresis is largely undesirable in transformers, power supplies and the
10 like. As such most of the research and development work has been around how to prevent this
   secondary effect which produces heat.
   In magnetic hysteresis heating the resistance of the target (i.e. susceptor) is unimportant and any
   circulating eddy currents which might occur do not represent a significant contribution to heating
15 of the target, as the mechanism is fundamentally different. During magnetic hysteresis heating
   the magnetic domains within the target align themselves with the external field. When the polarity
   of the external field is reversed the magnetic domains reverse and realign themselves with the
   new field direction and it is this continued motion of the magnetic domains that produces the heat.
   At low power and relatively low frequencies this mechanism can be made to dominate by
20 selection of an appropriate target.
   For example, copper is non-magnetic and when copper is used in a refill as a non-magnetic
   susceptor in place of the magnetic susceptor as called for in the present invention, when the
   alternating current passed through the induction coil in the device is 150KHz the copper susceptor
25 merely heats by approximately 40C which is due solely to Eddy current heating. In contrast when
   the susceptor is magnetic and has a coercivity between substantially 50 - 1500Hc then under the
   same induction coil conditions the magnetic susceptor heats to at least 1Ox greater than the non
   magnetic copper susceptor.
30 Preferably the magnetic susceptor(s) is made from at least one of the following materials: cast
   iron (annealed); nickel; nickel-coated steel; cobalt; carbon steel (annealed) 1% C; constructional
   steel particularly (0.3% C, 1% Ni) and/or (0.4% C, 3% Ni, 1.5%Cr); cobalt-iron alloy, particularly
   Permendur 24 (24% Co) and Permendur 49 (49% Co); Heusler alloy (61% Cu, 26% Mn, 13% Al);
   tool steel; powdered iron (preferably set in a resin base or the like to permit convenient shaping);
35 iron filings (preferably set in a resin base or the like to permit convenient shaping).
   Since the energy input to the assembly can be effectively targeted to heat the susceptor(s) within
   the induced magnetic field, only the susceptor(s) and the surrounding fluid in the volatile material

                                                       -8
   transport means is heated rather than the energy being wasted as heat elsewhere in the refill
   and/or device as with the prior art assemblies. Further, as the susceptor(s) is a simple, low-cost
   component, it can be cost efficiently provided as part of a refill.
 5 In a preferred arrangement each refill may be provided with at least one susceptor having heating
   characteristics which are optimised for the specific fluid contained in the refill, without the need for
   user intervention or complex control. For instance, it may be preferable to make the device as
   inexpensively as possible, therefore, one option to facilitate inexpensive manufacture would be to
   provide the device without any user-operable controls which permit a variation of its operating
10 parameters such that the device operates in accordance with a single set of operating
   parameters. In this arrangement the length and/or mass and/or composition of the susceptor(s) in
   the refill may be varied to tune the heat achieved when the susceptor(s) is located within the
   induced magnetic field during use to the evaporation temperature of the volatile fluid. By way of
   example, where the volatile fluid is a fragrance composition fragrances are generally composed of
15 a combination of top notes, middle notes and base notes. Top notes represent the most volatile
   part of the fragrance composition, these notes are usually perceived first by a human nose and
   include the "light" or "fresh" olfactive notes of the composition. The middle notes typically
   represent the "heart" of the mixture as they often provide the majority of the fragrance. The base
   notes are typically the least volatile part of the mixture and includes the heaviest molecules such
20 as the notes that provide "rich" or "deep" olfactive notes of the composition. Due to their weight
   and size the base notes usually linger for the longest period. A fragrance mixture is typically
   made up of 10% top notes, 60% middle notes and 30% base notes. However, if it is desired to
   sell a fragrance made up predominantly of top notes it would be possible to deploy a refill
   containing a susceptor that heats to a relatively low temperature to ensure that the highly volatile
25 top notes do not flash off to impart a user-desirable lifetime to the refill. Conversely if it is desired
   to sell a fragrance made up predominantly of base notes it would be possible to deploy a refill
   containing a susceptor(s) that heats to a relatively high temperature to ensure that the less
   volatile base notes are evaporated at a satisfactory rate to be noticeable by the user as well as
   imparting a user-desirable lifetime to the refill, i.e. a refill that will not last too long and risk
30 clogging or blocking the volatile material transport means.
   Furthermore, this preferred arrangement would make it permissible to market refills containing
   markedly different formulations for use with the same device. For instance, when evaporating
   fragrance formulations the preferred operating temperature may be in the order of 55-85'C
35 depending on the ratio of top, middle and base notes thereof, whereas for a pest control
   formulation much higher operating temperatures are generally required, typically in the order of
   120-140*C. Accordingly an assembly according to the present invention may provide a user with
   a much simpler and inexpensive solution to emanate volatile fluids; simpler as the device can be

                                                       -9
   left in situ and the desired refill may be changed by the user without the user having to
   communicate to the device that the refill contains a different formulation; inexpensive as a user
   need only purchase one device to emanate a wide variety of refills containing different
   formulations and the device need not have expensive nor complex refill recognition components
 5 to determine the device operating parameters.
   Although one option to facilitate inexpensive manufacture of a device would be to provide the
   device without any user-operable controls which permit a variation of its operating parameters, it
   may be preferable to provide the device with basic user-operable controls which permit limited
10 variation of the operating parameters, say between 2-4 predetermined operating parameters
   since some users may wish to change the intensity of the evaporated volatile fluid depending of
   the type of volatile fluid, the size of the space the fluid is being emanated into, etc.
   Alternatively where producing the device as inexpensively as possible is less of a concern the
15 device may be provided with one or more user-controllable inputs to permit the user to alter one
   or more operating parameters of the device to provide the user with a multitude of options to
   impart an emanation performance of the volatile fluid that they desire.
   A further benefit of the assembly according to the present invention is that the mass of the
20 components being heated is lower than hitherto available assemblies such that there will be a
   reduced amount of residual heat in said heated components during use and once the input
   energy to the assembly stops. This is particularly advantageous for several reasons, firstly, this
   improves the safety of the assembly during operation since only a small proportion of the device
   and/or refill will be heated thus making the assembly cool to the touch during use. Secondly, if
25 there is the need to vary the emanation rate of the volatile fluid it is possible to rapidly cease
   emanation of the volatile fluid by removing the input power to the induction coil and/or modifying
   the duty cycle to impart a rapid cool down of the susceptor. For instance, when concerned with
   addressing anti-habituation during fragrance emanation it is necessary to allow a user's olfactive
   receptors to become non-saturated with the particular fragrance molecule(s) and this can only be
30 achieved by ceasing the emanation of those fragrance molecule(s) and/or emanating a different
   fragrance. The ability of the device of the present invention to achieve rapid cool-down facilitates
   more rapid attenuation of the saturated olfactive receptors.
   To provide the device with a stable maximum operating temperature the susceptor(s), may
35 comprise a material with a stable Curie temperature, preferably less than 1500C. When the
   magnetic susceptor(s) is heated beyond this temperature, the susceptor(s) will become
   paramagnetic and no longer be susceptible to hysteresis heating until such time it cools down
   back below its Curie temperature. By selecting a magnetic susceptor(s) with a low and stable

                                                      -10
   Curie temperature, it is possible to prevent the temperature of the volatile liquid in the volatile
   material transport means exceeding a predetermined level, even if for some reason excess power
   is supplied to the induction coil.
 5 To ensure the heat generation within the susceptor(s) is as efficient as possible, the susceptor(s)
   may be substantially completely located inside the induced magnetic field during the operation of
   the assembly.
   In a preferred embodiment the refill is provided with a single magnetic susceptor.
10
   Alternatively the refill may be provided with a more than one magnetic susceptor. In this
   arrangement by increasing the number of susceptors it is possible to increase the amount of heat
   generated within the same device operating parameters relative to when only a single susceptor
   is present. For example, where under fixed device operating parameters one magnetic susceptor
15 is heated to 80'C it is surprisingly found that if two identical susceptors are in the induced field
   rather than both heating to 800C they will both heat to 900C. Furthermore, it is surprisingly found
   that if three identical susceptors are in the induced field rather than both heating to 80'C or 900C
   they will both heat to 105'C. Whilst not wishing to be bound by the following proposed
   hypothesis, the inventor of the present invention suspects that the presence of multiple
20 susceptors within the induced field focuses the field to the inside of the coil which decreases the
   area over which the field is spread thus increasing the magnetic focus and efficiency thereof.
   The volatile material may be one or more of a volatile solid, a volatile liquid, a volatile gel, a gas.
   Where a volatile solid is present said solid should have an mp>25*C and a bp<150*C, and
25 preferably an mp>50'C and a bp<120'C, examples include crystals of menthol or camphor. The
   volatile solids could be formed to be adjacent the susceptor or imbedded in a mat or a matrix to
   be located adjacent the susceptor. Preferably the volatile material is a volatile liquid and/or a
   volatile gel.
30 In some embodiments, the device may further comprise a control unit to control the operation of
   the induction coil. In such an embodiment, the device may further comprise a feedback coil
   configured to interact with a magnetic field generated by the induction coil. Preferably the
   feedback coil is provided in the form of feedback windings turned around the induction coil, most
   preferably about 12 windings around the primary coil. In this arrangement the control unit may be
35 configured to process an output from the feedback coil and, from this output, vary one or more
   operating parameters of the induction coil. The feedback coil is preferably configured to be
   capable of changing its output, in use, when a susceptor(s) is within the magnetic field of the
   induction coil.

                                                      - 11
   Preferably the feedback coil in may be configured, in use, to change its output when one property
   of a susceptor is changed from refill to refill, for example if the shape or mass or material or
   surface area of the susceptor changes. The control unit may then be configured to interpret the
 5 change in output from the feedback coil to determine what type of refill is within the magnetic field
   of the induction coil, and from this, automatically vary a property of the induction coil to apply the
   appropriate heating regime to each particular refill.
   To ensure the control unit is as simple as possible, thus as inexpensive as possible, the assembly
10 is preferably configured such that the feedback coil only has to change its output in response to a
   change of a single property of the susceptor from refill to refill, therefore, it is preferred for refills
   configured to be used with such a device to have three of the following susceptor properties fixed
   and one of the following susceptor properties variable for detection of this variance by the
   feedback coil, wherein said susceptor properties are: shape; mass; material and surface area.
15
   The provision of a feedback coil could also be used to prevent the susceptor(s) from getting too
   hot during use. As the susceptor(s) gets hot, the output from the feedback coil changes. The
   control unit could be configured to interpret a high temperature of the susceptor(s) based on this
   output, and from this, automatically vary a property of the induction coil to cool the susceptor.
20
   A further use for the feedback coil the device could be to ensure that the device is operating as
   efficiently as possible, in this preferred arrangement the control unit monitors the output of the
   feedback coil to alter the duty cycle as required to ensure the current supplied through the
   induction coil is optimised to the particular susceptor(s) in proximity with the induction coil.
25
   Examples of the device operating parameters which may be varied by the control unit may be the
   maximum amplitude, the frequency, or the duty cycle of the current being passed through the
   induction coil.
30 Alternatively or additionally, the device may be provided with mechanical or electromechanical
   means that are operable by the control unit to physically move the refill such that the susceptor is
   moved relative to the induced magnetic field of the induction coil. Alternatively or additionally, the
   device may be provided with mechanical or electromechanical means that are operable by the
   control unit to physically move the induction coil within the device housing such that the induced
35 magnetic field is moved relative to the susceptor in the refill.
   By configuring the assembly such that the alternating current passed through the induction coil
   has a frequency greater than 20 KHz the induction coil may more effectively heat up the

                                                       - 12
   susceptor by magnetic hysteresis. Preferably, the alternating current passed through the induction
   coil may be set at a frequency greater than 100 KHz, and more preferably set at a frequency of
   150KHz.
 5 In some embodiments, the device may accommodate more than one refill thus providing the
   assembly with multiple reservoirs each having their own susceptor.
   The presence of the multiple reservoirs allows more than one type of volatile fluid to be dispensed
   by the device by the single induction coil simultaneously.
10
   Alternatively the device may be provided with more than one induction coil, each induction coil
   being associated with a separate refill whereby, in use, the induced magnetic field from one
   induction coil surrounds the susceptor(s) in only one refill, this may permit alternate emanation of
   the volatile fluid from each respective refill, this may be especially preferably when the volatile
15 fluids are fragrances.
   In some embodiments, the device may further comprise alignment means provided on either of
   the device or the refill which is configured to align the refill with the device.
20 The purpose of this alignment means is to ensure that the susceptor is appropriately positioned
   with respect to the induction coil.
   In other embodiments, the device may further comprise an additional magnetic susceptor
   configured to heat an area around the induction coil.
25
   The benefit of this additional susceptor is to ensure that the components around the induction coil
   are appropriately heated, for instance the core of the induction coil or members which support the
   induction coil, such to avoid any volatile material which evaporates from condensating onto these
   components.
30
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided therefore a device for
   evaporating a volatile material from a detachable refill of volatile fluid comprising a reservoir for
   the volatile material and at least one magnetic susceptor having a coercivity of substantially 50
   ampere/metre (Hc) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (Hc); wherein the device comprises a
35 magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an alternating current passed therethrough at a
   frequency of between substantially 20KHz to substantially 500KHz to induce a magnetic field and
   one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one piece of heat-conducting,
   non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal.

                                                      -13
   According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for evaporating a
   volatile material, comprising the steps of locating a refill comprising a reservoir for the volatile
   material and at least one magnetic susceptor having a coercivity of substantially 50 ampere/metre
   (Hc) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (Ho) in a device comprising a magnetic induction coil
 5 configured to operate with an alternating current passed therethrough at a frequency of between
   substantially 20KHz to substantially 500KHz to induce a magnetic field and one or more volatile
   fluid emanation channels containing at least one piece of heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal
   foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal; generating a magnetic field through
   said induction coil by passing an AC current at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to
10 substantially 500KHz therethrough; said locating of the refill in the device being such that the at
   least one magnetic susceptor is at least partially within the generated magnetic field;
   and evaporating the volatile material by said at least one magnetic susceptor being heated
   predominately by magnetic hysteresis induced by the changing magnetic field from the induction
   coil to evaporate the volatile material and by said at least one piece of heat-conducting, non
15 magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal heating to resist
   condensation of the evaporated fluid within the device.
   The device may further comprise a control unit and/or a feedback coil and the method may
   comprise the control unit controlling the operation of the induction coil. The method may further
20 comprise the control unit processing an output from the feedback coil and, from this output,
   varying one or more operating parameters of the induction coil.
   The feedback coil may be configured, in use, to change its output when one property of a
   susceptor is changed from refill to refill, for example if the shape or mass or material or surface
25 area of the susceptor changes. The method may further comprise the control unit being
   configured to interpret the change in output from the feedback coil to determine what type of refill
   is within the magnetic field of the induction coil, and from this, automatically vary a property of the
   induction coil to apply the appropriate heating regime to each particular refill.
30 As the susceptor(s) gets hot, the output from the feedback coil changes. The method may further
   comprise the control unit interpreting the output of the feedback coil to determine a high
   temperature of the susceptor(s) and automatically varying a property of the induction coil to cool
   the susceptor.
35 A further use for the feedback coil in the device could be to ensure that the device is operating as
   efficiently as possible. The method may further comprise the control unit monitoring the output of
   the feedback coil to alter the duty cycle as required to ensure the current supplied through the
   induction coil is optimised to the particular susceptor(s) in proximity with the induction coil.

                                                      - 14
   The method may comprise the control unit may comprises the steps of the control unit varying
   one or more of the operating parameters of the induction coil by varying one or more of: the
   maximum amplitude; the frequency; the duty cycle.
 5 The method preferably includes the step of the device being operated to pass an alternating
   current through the induction coil with a frequency greater than 20 KHz to more effectively heat up
   the susceptor by magnetic hysteresis, and preferably greater than 100 KHz, and more preferably
   at a frequency of 150KHz.
10 Preferably, substantially all of the material in the reservoir is configured to be evaporated within 5
   hours of continuous actuation of the induction coil.
   More preferably, substantially all of the material in the reservoir is configured to be evaporated
   within 3 hours of continuous actuation of the induction coil.
15
   The invention will now be described, by example only, with reference to the accompanying
   drawings in which:
            Figure 1 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention.
20
            Figure 2 shows in more detail one example of the electronic circuitry used in the
   embodiment shown in Figure 1.
            Figure 3 shows in more detail a further example of the electronic circuitry used in the
25 embodiment shown in Figure 1.
            Figures 4A - 4C show an example layout of the invention.
            Figures 5A - 5C show exemplary designs for the interior of the refill shown in Figures 4A
30 - 4C.
            Figure 6 shows hysteresis loops for two different susceptor materials.
   Figure 1 shows a device 1 and a refill 2. The device 1 comprises a power source 101 connected
35 to electronic circuitry 102. Making up a part of this electronic circuitry is an induction coil 103 and
   an optional feedback coil 104.

                                                    -15
   The refill 2 is a separate component to the device 1. The refill 2 comprises a reservoir 201, which
   holds volatile material 202. The refill 2 also comprises a susceptor 204, and an optional volatile
   material transport means 203, illustrated here in the form of a wick.
 5 Where a wick 203 is present, the susceptor should be preferably in, or at least partially in, the
   wick. The wick 203 should extend beyond the reservoir 201 so that the material 205 which
   evaporates from the wick 203 can pass to the exterior of both the device 1 and the refill 2.
   The power source 101 of the device 1 may for example be a connection to a mains supply, a
10 connection to a USB docking station, or a battery.
   The circuit diagrams shown in Figures 2 and 3 are examples of self-resonant/self-oscillating zero
   voltage switched (ZVS) converter circuits. Such circuits are well known in the art.
15 The ZVS circuits shown are configured to provide a high frequency magnetic field across an
   induction coil L2 (approximately 200 KHz). In figure 2, the circuit is located between a line supply
   Ls and a ground connection     LG. Connected to the line supply Ls is the power source 101, which
   provides the line supply Ls with AC current. On the line supply Ls is a diode D1. The circuitry also
   comprises the feedback coil 104, the induction coil 103, three capacitors C2;C3;C4, two resistors
20 R1;R3, and two transistors Q2;Q3.
   The component layout in Figure 3 is similar to that of Figure 2, except for the addition of a system
   microcontroller unit (MCU) or control unit, with its own power supply which feeds off the line
   supply Ls, and which is adapted from the line supply Ls by conventional power stepping
25 electronics which are not shown, an additional resistor R1, an additional capacitor C1, and first
   and second extra diodes D2 and D3. Preferably the additional capacitor C1 is polarised, and
   preferably the second additional diode D3 is a Schottky diode. The purpose of the MCU in Figure
   3 is to control the duty cycle of the ZVS converter, and hence the power being delivered through
   the induction coil 103.
30
   In each of Figures 2 and 3, the capacitor C4 is the resonating capacitor of the ZVS circuit. The
   high frequency voltage present at a collector Q3 is coupled by capacitor C4 to a rectifying and
   regulating network comprising diodes D3 and D2, and the capacitor C1. In the case of Figure 3,
   the smoothed and regulated voltage present across capacitor C1 is used to power low voltage
35 sections of the circuit including the MCU.
   Operation of the invention as shown in Figures 1-3 will now be described.

                                                    - 16
   Prior to use, the power source 101 of the device 1 must be fully charged or connected. Once the
   device 1 is switched on, the electronic circuitry 102 of the device 1 is then configured to pass an
   AC current through the induction coil 103. The circuitry 102 may be configured to continually pass
   an AC current through the induction coil 103, or alternatively may be configured to only pass AC
 5 current through the induction coil 103 when the refill 2 containing the susceptor 204 is located
   near the induction coil 103, as will be discussed.
   A refill 2 as shown in Figure 1 is connected to or docked with the device 1. To hold the refill 2 in
   place on the device 1, a fastening means, clip, or cradle may be provided on the device 1, as is
10 shown for example in Figures 4A - 4C. However the refill 2 is connected to the device 1, the main
   requirement is that the susceptor 204 inside the refill 2 is close enough to be heated by the
   induction coil 103, and to interact with the optional feedback coil 104, located on the device 1, as
   will be discussed.
15 Once the refill 2 is engaged with the device 1, the susceptor 204 of the refill 2, which is positioned
   within the magnetic field of the induction coil 103will begin to heat up by predominately magnetic
   hysteresis heating and possibly to a minor degree also by eddy current heating.
   As the susceptor 204 heats up, volatile material 202 around the susceptor 204 also starts to heat
20 up and vaporise for dispersion to outside the refill 2.
   To control how much volatile material 202 is dispersed at any given time, the electronic circuitry
   102 from the device 1, in particular the MCU, can control the amount of current flowing through
   the induction coil 103, and hence control the amount of heating occurring in the susceptor 204.
25 The current flowing through the induction coil 103 can be varied for example by increasing the
   duty cycle of the circuit, or by increasing the maximum current flowing through the induction coil
   103. Such control can be either by external human input, for example by an end user via a switch
   or dial, or preferably by the MCU in response to an output from a feedback coil 104 provided in
   the electronic circuitry 102, as is discussed below.
30
   If a feedback coil 104 is provided, when current is flowing through the induction coil 103, the
   feedback coil 104 will pick up the magnetic field being emitted from the induction coil 103. When a
   susceptor 204 contained in a refill 2 is inserted into this magnetic field, the magnetic field will
   become distorted, depending on the shape of the susceptor, and so the signal being picked up
35 from the feedback coil 104 will change. By electrically connecting the MCU to the feedback coil
   104, the MCU can be configured to interpret the signal received from the feedback coil 104, and
   from this interpret what type or shape of susceptor 204 is positioned near the device 1, if any.

                                                       - 17
   The feedback coil 104 can also be used as a power control means to prevent the susceptor 204
   from getting too hot. As the susceptor heats up during operation, its effect on the magnetic field
   generated by the induction coil 103 changes. By electrically connecting the MCU to the feedback
   coil 104, the MCU can be configured to interpret the signal received from the feedback coil 104,
 5 and from this interpret the temperature of the susceptor 204. The MCU can then control the
   amount of current being passed through the induction coil 103.
   Another use for the output from the feedback coil 104 by the MCU is for monitoring the form of
   power being supplied by the electronic circuitry. By sampling the output signal from the feedback
10 coil 104, the MCU can be configured to vary the properties of the electronic circuitry to ensure that
   the alternating current being passed through the induction coil 103 is matched to the particular
   susceptor 204 in proximity with the induction coil 103.
   If no MCU or feedback coil 104 is present in the electronics of the evaporation device, the device
15 operates at a predetermined power level and operates in either an "on" or "off' state.
   An example design of both the device 1 and refill 2 is shown in Figures 4A - 4C. The
   configuration of both the device 1 and refill 2 is largely dependent on the induction coil 103 being
   able to efficiently heat the susceptor 204, and if a feedback coil 104 is present, allowing this coil to
20 interact with the magnetic fields generated by the induction coil 103. In the case of Figures 4A
   4C, the induction coil 103 is tubular in shape and is located such that once the refill 2 is
   connected with the device 1, the susceptor 204 fits inside the induction coil 103. Although not
   shown in Figures 4A - 4C, where a feedback coil 104 is also present, this could be placed in a
   concentric type arrangement in or around the induction coil 103.
25
   The refill 2 comprises a material reservoir 201 containing volatile material 202. This material is
   evaporated by heat from a susceptor 204. The refill 2 also comprises a cover 206 which can be
   perforated.
30 The device 1 of the example shown in Figures 4A - 4C comprises tube like perforating elements
   105 which are configured to pierce the cover 206 of the refill 2 during operation of the evaporation
   device. The induction coil 103 on the base element 1 is located to conform to the outer shape of
   the refill 2.
35 To operate the embodiment shown in Figure 4A - 4C, a user places the refill 2 into the device 1
   such that the susceptor 204 therein can interact with the induction coil 103 of the device 1. To aid
   with placing the refill 2 in the correct orientation, an alignment feature (not shown) could be
   provided on the refill 2 which locates with a corresponding feature on the device 1.

                                                      -18
   The user then closes the lid of the device 1 to cause the perforating element 105 to pierce into the
   cover 206. The induction coil 103 then heats the susceptor 204 of the refill 2 as previously
   described, causing volatile material 202 to evaporate and flow out through the perforating
   elements 105.
 5
   To reduce condensation within the device 1 a layer of aluminium foil is located on an inner
   surface of the perforating elements 105 that forms a chimney to direct evaporated fluid to the
   exterior of the device 1. The aluminium foil 205 heats up, it is suspected, by the susceptor 204
   having a sufficient affinity for the induced magnetic field that it forces the magnetic field through
10 the aluminium foil 205 which results in the foil 205 heating up thus to within 5'C of the susceptor
   204 temperature. This heating of the aluminium foil 205 reduces the likelihood for condensation
   within the device 1 and also promotes airflow therethrough as it creates a thermal gradient
   between the chimney and the air surrounding the device 1.
15 It is possible that the volatile material 202 in the embodiment of Figures 4A - 4C be in the form of
   a gel.
   As an optional safety feature to the design as shown in Figures 4A-4C, the perforating element
   105 may be configured to be made inaccessible when the device is not in use.
20
   Figures 5A-5C show three exemplary cross sections for the interior of the refill 2.
   Figure 5A shows a first design where no wick 203 is used. In this design, the susceptor 204
   directly heats the volatile material 202 in the reservoir 201. The susceptor may be positioned in or
25 on the reservoir. Preferably the susceptor 204 should be designed and positioned so as to ensure
   that substantially all the volatile material in the refill 2 can be evaporated.
   Although the susceptor 204 shown in Figure 5A is shown as being a separate component to the
   material reservoir 201, this need not necessarily be the case as the wall of the material reservoir
30 201 could instead act as the susceptor. In this situation, when an alternating current is passed
   through the induction coil 103, the whole reservoir 201 around the volatile material 202 would
   heat up. In this situation, it would be necessary to ensure that a user could not touch the reservoir
   201 of the refill 2 whilst volatile material 202 evaporates to ensure that they are not injured.
35 An alternate design for the refill 2 is shown in Figure 5B which uses a wick 203. In this case, the
   wick is shaped to sit in the bottom of the reservoir 201, and is pre-saturated with volatile material
   202. The susceptor 204 is preferably placed within the wick 203. When the susceptor 204 is
   heated by the induction coil 103, the volatile material 202 near the susceptor starts to evaporate

                                                     -19
   from the wick 203. As this volatile material evaporates, volatile material 202 located further away
   from the susceptor 204 diffuses towards it through capillary action in the wick 203.
   A third design for the refill 2 is shown in Figure 5C which is a hybrid of the designs shown in
 5 Figures 5A and 5B. In this design, at least a portion of the wick 203 extends above the volatile
   material 202 in the reservoir 201. As material evaporates from the wick 203, new volatile material
   enters the wick 203 from the reservoir 201. The new volatile material diffuses towards the
   susceptor 204 through capillary action in the wick 203 as previously described.
10 Although only one susceptor 204 is shown in Figures 4A - 5C, it could be that more than one
   susceptor 204 is used.
   Exemplary shapes for each susceptor 204 could be a band running down a length of the reservoir
   201 and/or the wick 203, or a ring passing around it. Other shapes could also be used depending
15 on how the volatile material 202 in the reservoir 201 is intended to be heated, and depending on
   where the induction coil 103 is positioned in the device 1.
   It will be appreciated that the designs shown in Figures 4A - 5C could be adapted to allow the
   accommodation of more than one refill 2. For example, extra ports could be provided on the
20 device 1 to allow the connection of additional refills 2. Each port on the device 1 could be
   provided with its own induction coil 103 such that the material 202 contained in each refill 2 could
   be heated independently of the material contained in the other refills 2. Alternatively, all the refills
   2 could be selectively heated by a single induction coil 103 located on the device 1, using
   conventional time switching circuitry. Irrespective of the number of induction coils 103 or number
25 of refills 2 used, the principle of operation would be the same as previously described.
   Ideally the magentic material for the magnetic susceptor should have a high hysteresis loss so
   that when it is repeatedly magnetised and demagnetised by an external magnetic field a relatively
   high proportion of the external field energy is converted into heat. The magnetic properties
30 exhibited by such a magnetic material may be represented by a plot of flux density (B) against
   magnetic field strength (H) as shown in figure 6. Materials having relatively low hysteresis losses
   are typified by the solid hysteresis loop which has a small area whilst materials having relatively
   high hysteresis losses are typified by the dotted hysteresis loop which has a high area. The
   proportion of the external magnetic field energy that is converted into heat by the susceptor for
35 each magnetic cycle is proportional to the area of the hysteresis loop corresponding to the
   particular magnetic material. Accordingly magnetic materials having small area hysteresis loops
   generate less heat when subjected to a given alternating magnetic field and function poorly as
   susceptor materials. Conversely magnetic materials having large area hysteresis loops generate

                                                   - 20
   more heat when subjected to the same alternating magnetic field and function well as susceptor
   materials. The area of the hysteresis loop of a magnetic material is proportional to its coercivity so
   that a material having a high coercivity may be particularly suitable for use as a susceptor. Such a
   material should have a coercivity in the range of 50 - 1500 ampere per metre (Hc).
 5 There is an upper range to the coercivity to guard against an excessively high coercivity in order
   that external alternating magnetic fields may readily bring about the necessary magnetic flux
   reversals in the material thus preventing fine control of the heating performance via magnetic
   hysteresis. Such materials are known as magnetically soft materials and are distinguished
   thereby from the very high coercivity magnetically hard materials which are typically used in
10 permanent magnet applications.

                                                    -  21
   CLAIMS
   1.        An assembly for evaporating a volatile material, the assembly comprising a device and a
   refill which are detachable from one another:
 5 wherein the device comprises a magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an alternating
   current passed therethrough at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to substantially
   500KHz and one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one piece of heat
   conducting, non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal;
   and wherein the refill comprises at least one magnetic susceptor having a coercivity of
10 substantially 50 ampere/metre (Hc) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (Hc) and a substantially
   liquid-tight sealed reservoir containing the volatile material; wherein, in use, the magnetic
   susceptor(s) is arranged to heat the material predominately by magnetic hysteresis when the
   magnetic susceptor(s) is at least partially positioned in the induced magnetic field generated, in
   use, when said alternating current is passed through the induction coil.
15
   2.        An assembly according to claim 1, wherein the one or more volatile fluid emanation
   channels is provided in the form of one or more chimneys or the like that are open at one end to
   receive the evaporated volatile fluid and open at their other end to the environment surrounding
   the device.
20
   3.        An assembly according to claim 2, wherein the chimney(s) are rotatable and/or movable
   relative to the rest of the device.
   4.        An assembly according to claim 2, wherein the chimney(s) are provided with one or more
25 holes and/or windows any or all of which are arranged to promote airflow into the chimney and out
   into the environment surrounding the device.
   5.        An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the heat-conducting, non
   magnetic metal is selected from one of aluminium, silver, gold, platinum, tungsten, magnesium or
30 copper.
   6.         An assembly according to any of claims 1-4, wherein the heat-conducting, non-magnetic
   metal is aluminium, and preferably aluminium foil.
35 7.        An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the heat-conducting, non
   magnetic metal foil is provided in the form of sheet foil of a thickness of between substantially
   8pm to substantially 25pm.

                                                       - 22
   8.       An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the deposited heat-conducting,
   non-magnetic metal is provided as a vacuum metalised deposit to a thickness of between
   substantially 0.1pm to substantially 10pm, with substantially 0.25pm being most preferred.
 5 9.       An assembly according to claim 2 or any claim dependent thereon, wherein the heat
   conducting, non-magnetic metal is provided in contact with the inner surface of the, or each,
   chimney in order to face the evaporated fluid.
   10.      An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein any secondary eddy current
10 heating is <50% of the heat generated in the magnetic susceptor, and preferably <40% of the
   heat generated, and more preferably <35% of the heat generated, and most preferably less than
   <30% of the heat generated.
   11.      An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the magnetic susceptor(s) is
15 made from at least one of the following materials: cast iron (annealed); nickel; nickel-coated steel;
   cobalt; carbon steel (annealed) 1% C; constructional steel particularly (0.3% C, 1% Ni) and/or
   (0.4% C, 3% Ni, 1.5%Cr); cobalt-iron alloy (preferably Permendur 24 (24% Co) and/or Permendur
   49 (49% Co)); Heusler alloy (61% Cu, 26% Mn, 13% Al); tool steel; powdered iron (preferably set
   in a resin base or the like); iron filings (preferably set in a resin base or the like).
20
   12.      An assembly according to any preceding claim, wherein the susceptor is made from a
   material with a stable Curie temperature, preferably less than 1501C.
   13.      A device for evaporating a volatile material from a detachable refill of volatile fluid
25 comprising a reservoir for the volatile material and at least one magnetic susceptor having a
   coercivity of substantially 50 ampere/metre (Hc) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (H); wherein
   the device comprises a magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an alternating current
   passed therethrough at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to substantially 500KHz to
   induce a magnetic field and one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one
30 piece of heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non
   magnetic metal.
   14.      A device according to claim 13, wherein the one or more volatile fluid emanation channels
   is provided in the form of one or more chimneys or the like that are open at one end to receive the
35 evaporated volatile fluid and open at their other end to the environment surrounding the device.
   15.      A device according to claim 14, wherein the chimney(s) are rotatable any/or movable
   relative to the rest of the device.

                                                      - 23
   16.      A device according to claim 14, wherein the chimney(s) are provided with one or more
   holes and/or windows any or all of which are arranged to promote airflow into the chimney and out
   into the environment surrounding the device.
 5 17.      A device according to any of claims 13-16, wherein the heat-conducting, non-magnetic
   metal is selected from one of aluminium, silver, gold, platinum, tungsten, magnesium or copper.
   18.      A device according to any of claims 13-16, wherein the heat-conducting, non-magnetic
   metal is aluminium, and preferably aluminium foil.
10
   19.      A device according to any of claims 13-18, wherein the heat-conducting, non-magnetic
   metal foil is provided in the form of sheet foil of a thickness of between substantially 8pm to
   substantially 25pm.
15 20.      A device according to any of claims 13-19, wherein the deposited heat-conducting, non
   magnetic metal is provided as a vacuum metalised deposit to a thickness of between substantially
   0.1pm to substantially 10pm, with substantially 0.25pm being most preferred.
   21.      A device according to claim 14 or any claim dependent thereon, wherein the heat
20 conducting, non-magnetic metal is provided in contact with the inner surface of the, or each,
   chimney in order to face the evaporated fluid.
   22.      A method for evaporating a volatile material, comprising the steps of locating a refill
   comprising a reservoir for the volatile material and at least one magnetic susceptor having a
25 coercivity of substantially 50 ampere/metre (Ho) to substantially 1500 ampere/metre (Hc) in a
   device comprising a magnetic induction coil configured to operate with an alternating current
   passed therethrough at a frequency of between substantially 20KHz to substantially 500KHz to
   induce a magnetic field and one or more volatile fluid emanation channels containing at least one
   piece of heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non
30 magnetic metal;
   generating a magnetic field through said induction coil by passing an AC current at a frequency of
   between substantially 20KHz to substantially 500KHz therethrough;
   said locating of the refill in the device being such that the at least one magnetic susceptor is at
   least partially within the generated magnetic field;
35 and evaporating the volatile material by said at least one magnetic susceptor being heated
   predominately by magnetic hysteresis induced by the changing magnetic field from the induction
   coil to evaporate the volatile material and by said at least one piece of heat-conducting, non-

                                               - 24
magnetic metal foil and/or deposited heat-conducting, non-magnetic metal heating to resist
condensation of the evaporated fluid within the device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
