                                        ABSTRACT
The invention relates to an air outlet (1) for controlling a temperature of room (2), in
particular a lab, the air outlet including a flowable housing (4) with a length (L) and
a width (B), wherein the housing includes an air inlet cross section (10) and at least
one air outlet cross section (14), wherein a connection spout (9) that supplies
ventilation air is provided in a portion of the air inlet cross section (10), wherein two
opposite side walls (5) of the housing (4) are respectively provided with at least one
jet element (12) that is configured to dispense individual ventilation air jets into the
room (2) in a turbulent manner, wherein at least one channel (16) extending in a
longitudinal direction of the housing (4) is arranged at a bottom side of the housing
(4), wherein ventilation air is dispensable into the room (2) through the channel,
wherein the bottom side of the housing (4) is closed outside of the at least one
channel (16).
 In order to improve an air outlet for controlling a temperature of a room so that is
provides high cooling power an low turbulence flow of the ventilation air which
reduces a flushing of air out of a digestorium it is proposed according to the
invention that the side walls (5) of the housing (4) including the at least one jet
element (12) are perforated and the at least one channel (16) is arranged in an at
least partially cylindrical element (17) or in plural partially cylindrical elements that
are arranged in series, wherein the channel (16) is configured so that a directional
change of a flow direction of the channel occurs, wherein the at least one element
(17) or the plural elements (17) that are arranged in series are respectively
supported rotatable about a longitudinal element axis, wherein at least one an air
control element (21, 21', 21") is arranged in the housing (4).

     1/2
                                                   0 0
            *0        0       p 0I a 0        0 9          D
         oc        ..   ..   ~         a.   .
        n      aa a                    G  CX.           OG
r..J     ..   9f2          o        :  e
                                      lo          -0 )..D
         .0 O                  0... U00...,.
                   0',              D                   A D
        G0     frOcoao                    a a o            a
      'a000    j      ooo]an toGoa
                        fl   Oe                      e       a at
            .aooo                0.
                                ona       v{o
                                            amqog
       S90
               SF9
                9                 0&$U4S      -        4  A
                                                                   ig 1
               r'       1      '\*     'U*o
            A:
              N
                   &i'"--U? A:: e
                       GOV                      W
        GC                                           n o Oo
       $.      p0:00C0C0D                 0 000e      e
      4 CC*     |'           laUp
                               *qqt               C      D
                                      D   &&D       oeI ea   eee  Fige

           AIR OUTLET FOR TEMPERATURE CONTROLLING A ROOM
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to an air outlet for temperature controlling a room, in
particular a lab, the air outlet comprising a flowable housing with a length and a
width wherein the housing includes an air inlet cross section and at least one air
outlet cross section wherein a connection spout that supplies ventilation air is
provided in a portion of the air inlet cross section, wherein two opposite side walls
of the housing are respectively provided with at least one jet element that is
configured to dispense individual ventilation air jets into the room in a turbulent
manner wherein at least one channel extending in a longitudinal direction of the
housing is arranged at a bottom side of the housing, wherein the ventilation air is
dispensable into the room through the channel wherein a bottom side of the
housing is closed outside of the channel.
Plural air outlets can also be connected with each other through tubular conduits
and can be jointly supplied by an individual air inlet arrangement.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Air outlets are known in many variations in the art and can satisfy different
requirements.     When controlling a temperature of a lab typically reliable ventilation
is required for particular work spaces wherein significant cooling is desirable in
addition to providing ventilation air.
From the unpublished utility model DE 20 2015 103 138 U1 a device for laboratory
ventilation is known that includes plural modules, wherein individual ceiling
modules are connected by connection modules.          Thus the ceiling modules are
used for supplying ventilation to particular work spaces and the connection
modules are mere connection element between two ceiling modules.
                                             1

DE 10 2013 109 702 Al discloses an air outlet for supplying fresh air to a lab.
The air outlet is characterized in that as described supra ventilation air is dispensed
into the room at two side walls and at a bottom side through air outlet openings,
wherein a heat exchanger module can be arranged in the portion of the air outlet
openings arranged at the bottom side. When the known air outlet is provided with a
heat exchanger module room air is sucked into the heat exchanger through the
flow of the ventilation air flowing out of the air outlet openings arranged at a bottom
side where the room air is temperature controlled and moved back into the room by
the flowing ventilation air.
A substantial amount of heat is generated in labs from chemical processes
performed at work places or by using burners or similar at the work places. Thus, it
is desirable in particular for labs that a significant cooling of the room air is
performed by the air outlet which is only possible by introducing a large amount of
cooled air.     Introducing a large air volume however is also problematic for two
reasons: on the one hand side the large masses of cold air can be perceived as
unpleasant by workers when they are hit directly by the air jet. On the other hand
side some labs can have the problem that so called "digestories" which are quite
frequently used are flow impacted by ventilation air in a disadvantageous manner.
A disadvantageous flow impact is characterized in particular by high air velocities
along the digestorium e.g. in a vertical direction or at a slant angle relative to the
digestorium.     The high flow velocities cause a so called "flushing" of air from the
digestorium into the lab space.      It is appreciated that this type of air extraction
from the digestorium is undesirable and can cause significant problems depending
on the application.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
Thus, it is an object of the invention to improve an air outlet for controlling a
temperature of a room so that the air outlet is characterized by high cooling power
and by a flow of the ventilation air with low turbulence which at least reduces a
flushing of air out of the digestorium.
                                              2

SOLUTION
 Improving upon the air outlet described supra the object is achieved in that the side
walls of the housing that include at least one jet element are perforated and the at
least one channel is arranged in one or plural at least partially cylindrical elements
that are arranged in series, wherein the channel is configured so that a directional
change of a flow direction of the channel is provided. Furthermore the at least one
element or the plural elements that are arranged in series are respectively
supported rotatable about their respective rotation axis so that an outflow direction
of air flowing through the channel is adjustable relative to the air outlet.
According to the invention at least one air control element is arranged within the
housing of the air outlet.
An air control element according to the invention is a component that is configured
to distribute ventilation air that flows into the housing of the air outlet to the side
walls and the base of the housing, so that a flow impact of the at least one channel
and of the at least one jet element is controllable.     In particular it is desirable to
adjust the air volume flows which exit the air outlet on the one hand side through
the at least one channel in downward direction and on the other hand side through
the perforation and optional jet elements to the sides.      In particular it can be
achieved by the air control element that the different air outlet cross sections, thus
the jet element, the perforation of the side walls and the at least one channel at the
bottom side of the housing are evenly supplied with ventilation air.          Additionally
the at least one air control element can be used to evenly distribute the ventilation
air also or alternatively over a length of the air outlet.   For example it is
conceivable that respectively one third of the entire ventilation air volume flow that
is supplied to the air outlet flows out through the at least one channel and
respectively through the side walls (jet elements and perforations) into the room to
the ventilated. This way it can be assured that the flow velocities of the air volume
flows exiting the air outlet are on a uniform and low level.      This is particularly
                                               3

important for a comfort of persons in the ventilated room and in particular under the
aspect of a risk of flushing air out of a digestorium.
The ventilation air supplied through the air inlet cross section of the housing exits
the housing through jet elements arranged in the side walls with a rather high
velocity, thus as a turbulent jet shaped volume flow. Since the side walls of the
housing are perforated an induced vacuum at the side surfaces of the housing
causes ventilation air to be sucked into the room through the perforation.        The
ventilation air flowing into the room through the perforation of the side walls flows
with low turbulence so that overall a so called mixed source ventilation is generated
from the turbulent volume flow and the laminar induced ventilation air flow which
can also be designated as hybrid ventilation. This embodiment facilitates to
generate rather high air volume flows which are only required for dissipating the
possibly significant cooling loads which, however, can operate with rather low flow
velocities which keep the risk of flush out low. Additionally the flow velocities are
simultaneously raised beyond an extent of mere source ventilation so that a direct
"dropping" of the cooled ventilation air vertically downward does not occur.        The
latter typically generates a high level of discomfort and an uneven temperature
distribution in the room to be ventilated.
Simultaneously with the lateral jet output ventilation air also enters the room
through the at least one channel at the bottom side of the housing, wherein the
channel is formed in at least one partial cylindrical element so that a change of
direction occurs with respect to the flow direction of the channel. This means that
air exiting from the channel is deflected within the channel wherein the deflection is
advantageously performed so that the ventilation air flows out laterally and adheres
to the housing from below.        This so called Coanda effect is advantageous
because air dispensed into the room does not flow directly to a work place but
initially in a horizontal or slanted direction. Therefore it is possible to provide a
highly inductive flow of the ventilation air at a bottom side of the housing which
takes along a large portion of ventilation air.    The adjustment or orientation of the
at least one channel can be performed manually.
                                               4

Therefore it is possible with the air outlet according to the invention to provide a
high amount of ventilation air introduction, thus a high volume of ventilation air into
the room, wherein overall a low turbulence volume flow is provided.        The
combination of ventilation air introduced in a turbulent manner by the at least one
jet element and the channel on the one hand side and the laminar induced flow of
ventilation air at the longitudinal sides of the housing on the other hand side
causes a low turbulence ventilation air introduction into the room which is
comfortable for the persons in the room and the risk of flushing air out of a
digestorium is reduced.
Since a high amount of ventilation air introduction can be provided by the air outlet
according to the invention a high level of cooling and heating power can be
achieved.     In spite of the overall low turbulence flow a temperature difference AT
of up to 10 Kelvin can be achieved. A heat exchanger can thus be omitted entirely
so that the air outlet according to the invention can be produced in a very
economical manner.
 In an advantageous embodiment of the air outlet according to the invention at least
a horizontal air control element and at least a vertically extending air control
element can be arranged within the housing.        Furthermore it can be
advantageous when the at least one air control element is formed by a perforated
sheet. A perforated sheet is particularly well suited to distribute the ventilation air
through the throttling effect achieved by the individual holes of the perforated sheet
to pre flow chambers arranged behind the perforated sheet from which pre flow
chambers the ventilation air transitions into the room to be ventilated.
As another embodiment of the invention it can be provided that two, three or more
channels extending parallel to each other are arranged adjacent to each other in
the base of the housing.       The number of the channels and the flow cross section
of the individual channels should be adapted to the overall required temperature
control capability in order to obtain optimum individual conditions in a room.
                                              5

Thus, it is furthermore advantageous when the at least partially cylindrical elements
are rotatably supported independently from each other. Thus, it is possible that
channels arranged adjacent to each other are oriented in different directions.
When the air outlet according to the invention is arranged in a center of the room
individual channels can be oriented to the right and other channels can be oriented
towards the left so that the room is supplied overall with ventilation air through the
channels arranged at the bottom side of the housing. It is appreciated that the
channels can also be oriented in the same direction.
When an individual channel is arranged in plural at least partially cylindrical
elements that are arranged in series it is furthermore possible that the individual
elements can be adjusted independently from each other in various directions.
Thus, a different blow out direction of the channel sections thus provided can be
provided over the length of the entire channel.       Adjusting the blow out direction
can be performed manually and is easily adaptable to individual requirements.
 In order to provide that a directional change is provided along the flow direction of
the channel the channel can be provided for example angled or cambered in the at
least one element viewed in the cross section of the element.
With respect to the jet element it is advantageous when the at least one jet element
includes a plurality of inclined slots forming air outlet cross sections, wherein an
inclination of the individual slots is respectively adjustable. This means that the
individual slots are adjustable independently from each other with respect to
inclination. This way it is possible to fan ventilation air that leaves the jet element
out in a broad pattern.       The adjustment of the inclination can thus be performed
manually.
Furthermore it can be advantageous when the at least one jet element in its
entirety is rotatable or arranged at the side wall associated with the jet element so
that an outflow direction of the respective jet element is adjustable by rotating the
jet element.    In particular it is conceivable when using a plurality of jet elements to
adjust each jet element individually and to thus individually adapt the jet element to
                                              6

the respective room to be ventilated and eventually to model the flow conditions in
the room in an optimum manner.
When using plural jet elements it is furthermore conceivable to provide openings of
the jet elements with control elements respectively wherein the inclinations of the
control elements of different jet elements is different. Typically all control elements
of the same jet element have the same inclination so that a respective jet element
generates an outflow direction of the ventilation air that is consistent.      It is
conceivable for example to provide a respective air outlet with two different types of
jet elements, namely jet elements whose control elements cause no deflection or
only a minimal deflection, approximately 50 to 150 relative to the orthogonal on the
opening wherein the deflection is imparted upon air flowing through the jet
elements (steep jet elements) and such jet elements which cause a deflection of
the air in a range of 300 to 600, advantageously approximately 450 (flat jet
elements).     Alternative embodiments are certainly also conceivable.
When at least one row of jet elements that are offset from each other is arranged in
at least one side wall of the housing a mixed source ventilation is performed over a
greater length which has a positive effect upon room climate.
EMBODIMENT
The invention is subsequently described based on an embodiment with reference
to drawing figures, wherein:
FIG. 1 illustrates a view of a longitudinal side of the air outlet according to the
invention; and
FIG. 2 illustrates a cross section of the air outlet according to FIG. 1.
FIG. 1 illustrates an air outlet 1 according to the invention configured to control a
temperature OF a room 2 and particularly suited for controlling a temperature in a
lab.     FIG. 1 illustrates a view of a longitudinal side 3 of an air outlet 1 which
includes a flowable housing 4 with a length L and a width B (FIG. 2).         The housing
4 is configured cuboid and includes two side walls 5 extending in the longitudinal
                                              7

direction and two face walls 6 extending in the transversal direction.       The housing
4 further includes a cover 7 and a base 8. Typically the housing 4 is made from
folded sheet metal.
A connection spout 9 is arranged at a top side of the housing 4, thus in the cover 7
wherein the air outlet 1 is provided with ventilation air through the connection spout
9.     For this purpose the connection spout 9 can be connected with a tubular
collector conduit wherein additional air outlets are also connected with the tubular
collector conduit and in turn connected to a ventilation air system.       Alternatively
the connection spout 9 can be directly connected to a ventilation air system.        An
inside cross section of the connection spout 9 forms an air inlet cross section 10
into the housing 4.      The connection spout 9 can also be arranged in a face wall 6.
 It is evident that the side wall 5 of the housing 4 in FIG. 1 is perforated.
Furthermore the side wall 5 includes two rows 11 of jet elements 12 that are offset
from each other.       The jet elements 12 are formed by circular discs in which seven
respectively inclined air channels 13 are arranged wherein FIG. 1 only shows
seven individual air outlet cross sections 14 of the air channels 30 of the jet
elements 12. The precise configuration of the air channels 13 is described in more
detail with reference to FIG. 2.     The opposite side wall which is not visible in FIG.
 1 is configured analogously.
While ventilation air is dispensed in a turbulent manner into the room 2 through the
jet elements 12, ventilation air flows through the perforation 15 of the side wall 5
into the room 2. This generates a hybrid ventilation from the turbulent volume jet
and the laminar flow along ventilation air.
FIG. 2 illustrates a cross section of the air outlet 1 according to the invention which
among other things shows the configuration of the jet elements 12.          The jet
elements 12 include seven inclined air channels 13 viewed in cross section,
wherein only three respective jet elements are illustrated in FIG. 2.       Thus, the air
channels 13 of the upper row 11 of jet elements 12 is oriented in an upward
direction and the air channels 13 of the lower rows 11' of jet elements 12 is
                                              8

oriented in a downward direction. However, it is provided that the jet elements 12
can be manually adjusted independently from each other so that an individual
fanning of the ventilation air into individual ventilation air jets can be provided.
Thus, the air channels 13 can be oriented in a horizontal direction and in a vertical
direction.    Certainly jet elements 12 with another number of air channels 13 are
also conceivable. FIG. 2 also shows the perforation 15 of the side walls 5.
At a bottom side of the housing 4, thus in the base 8 three channels 16 are
arranged that extend parallel to each other in the longitudinal direction of the
housing 4, wherein the channels 16 are respectively fabricated in an at least
partially cylindrical element 17. Thus, the channels 16 are overall centrally
arranged in the base 8 of the housing 4. The elements 17 have walls 18, 18' that
are arranged opposite to each other in cross section and which extend in an
arcuate manner or at an angle so that overall an arcuate or angled channel 16 is
provided.      The elements 17 are rotatably supported about their longitudinal axis
so that an orientation of the channels 16 oriented therein is adjustable. The
adjustment can be performed manually, wherein the orientation of the channels 16
independently from each other is adjustable so that they can be oriented in
different directions.
 In FIG. 2 all three channels 16 are oriented so that they point to the right and
downward. Accordingly the ventilation air which flows approximately vertically into
the channels 16 is deflected so that the ventilation air exits the channels 16
respectively oriented to the right and downward.         The inclination of the ventilation
air jet is thus flat so that the air flows exiting the channels 16 adhere to the base 8
of the housing 4 due to the so called Coanda effect and flow along the base of the
housing 4.      The base 8 of the illustrated air outlet 1 is closed besides the
channels 16 and configured flat thus in a straight line.
 Due to the geometry of the channel 16 an adjustment of an inclination of the
channel 16 is not possible at will when the cross section of the channel 16 shall be
used in its entirety.     In the illustrated embodiment an adjustment of the channels
 16 is advantageous on the one hand side in a right downward direction and in a left
                                                9

downward direction. Therefore two positions of the channels 16 are provided for
an optimum operation of the air outlet 1 according to the invention that is illustrated
in FIG. 2. Other configurations of the channel 16, however, are also conceivable.
The channels 16 extend in the longitudinal direction of the housing 4 wherein they
can extend over an entire length of the housing 4 thus to the face walls 6 or can
terminate at a distance from the face walls 6. The elements 17 can be configured
as short pieces and can have for example a length of approximately 5 cm to 10 cm,
wherein a plurality of elements 17 is arranged in a row. The individual elements
are then also rotatably supported about their longitudinal axis wherein the
individual elements are adjustable independently from adjacent elements in a row.
In this case a different adjustment of the orientation of the individual element of a
row is possible over the length of the row.
It is appreciated that the air outlet 1 according to the invention can also be
configured with only one individual channel 16 or with a number of channels 16
that are arranged parallel adjacent to each other wherein the number differs from
three.
A respective chamber 19 is arranged above the elements 17 and has a width
which increases in flow direction (arrow 20) thus top down. While the chamber 19
respectively has a width b1 on a side that is oriented towards the element 17 and
wherein the width b1 corresponds approximately to the width or diameter of the
element 17 the width b2 on a side that is oriented away from the element 17 is
smaller.    This generates a type of opposite jet effect which slows the ventilation
air flow that moves into the channels 16. The width b1 of the chamber 19 in the
portion of the element 17, however, exceeds a width of the channel 16 in the
element 17.
Within the housing 4 three air control elements 21, 21', 21" are arranged which
extend over the entire length L of the housing 4. The air control elements 21, 21'
21' are formed by perforated plates, wherein two air control elements 21', 21"
extend vertically and are arranged respectively at a distance of approximately 6 cm
                                            10

to 8 cm from the jet elements 12.        The third air control element 21 extends
horizontally between the two vertically extending air control elements 21', 21". The
third air control element 21 has a distance from the base 8 of the housing 4 of
approximately of 100 - 150 mm.         The total height 8 of the housing 4 is
approximately 250 - 280 mm.
The air control elements 21, 21', 21" are used on the one hand side to conduct or
distribute ventilation air introduced from the connection spout 9 into the housing 4
over an entire length L of the pre flow chambers 22, 23, 24 arranged downstream
of the air control elements 21, 21' 21", wherein the distribution of the ventilation air
shall be provided as uniform as possible. Put differently the ventilation air in the
illustrated embodiment shall be distributed to the pre flow chambers 22, 23, 24 so
that ventilation air flows which exit the air outlet 1 through the channels 16 in
downward direction and through the perforation 15 and the jet elements 12 to the
respective sides are provided as uniform as possible.        Put differently the air
control elements 21, 21', 21" are used in particular to provide an even flow of the
jet elements 12, the perforation 15 and of the channels 16.        In an optimum a third
of the ventilation air is respectively distributed to the two side walls 5 and flows
through the jet elements 12 arranged therein and the remaining third of the
ventilation air flows through the channels 16 in the base 8 of the housing 4.
                                              11

REFERENCE NUMERALS AND DESIGNATIONS
1            air outlet
2            room
3            longitudinal side
4            housing
5            side wall
6            face wall
7            cover
8            base
9            connection spout
10           air inlet cross section
11, 11'      row
12           jet element
13           air channel
14           air outlet cross section
15           perforation
16           channel
17           element
18           wall
19           chamber
20           arrow
21, 21', 21" air control element
22           pre flow chamber
23           pre flow chamber
24           pre flow chamber
H            height
L            length
B            width
b1           width
b2           width
                                      12

                                          CLAIMS
1.      An air outlet (1) for controlling a temperature of room (2), in particular a lab,
the air outlet comprising:
        a flowable housing (4) with a length (L) and a width (B),
        wherein the housing includes an air inlet cross section (10) and at least one
air outlet cross section (14),
        wherein a connection spout (9) that supplies ventilation air is provided in a
portion of the air inlet cross section (10),
        wherein two opposite side walls (5) of the housing (4) are respectively
provided with at least one jet element (12) that is configured to dispense individual
ventilation air jets into the room (2) in a turbulent manner,
        wherein at least one channel (16) extending in a longitudinal direction of the
housing (4) is arranged at a bottom side of the housing (4),
        wherein ventilation air is dispensable into the room (2) through the channel,
        wherein the bottom side of the housing (4) is closed outside of the at least
one channel (16),
        characterized in that the side walls (5) of the housing (4) including the at
least one jet element (12) are perforated and the at least one channel (16) is
arranged in an at least partially cylindrical element (17) or in plural partially
cylindrical elements that are arranged in series,
        wherein the channel (16) is configured so that a directional change of a flow
direction of the channel occurs, wherein
        the at least one element (17) or the plural elements (17) that are arranged in
series are respectively supported rotatable about a longitudinal element axis,
        wherein at least one an air control element (21, 21', 21") is arranged in the
housing (4).
2.      The air outlet (1) according to claim 1, characterized in that at least one
horizontal air control element (21, 21', 21") and at least one vertical air control
element       (21, 21', 21") is arranged in the housing (4).
                                              13

3.      The air outlet (1) according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the at least
one air control element (21, 21', 21") is formed by a perforated plate.
4.      The air outlet (1) according to one claims 1 or 2, characterized in that two,
three or more than three channels (16) that extend parallel to each other are
arranged adjacent to each other.
5.      The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 - 4, characterized in that
the at least partially cylindrical elements (17) are rotatably supported independently
from each other.
6.      The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 -5, characterized in that
the channel (16) and the at least one element (17) is configured angled or
cambered in a cross section of at least one element (17).
7.      The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 - 6, characterized in that
the at least one jet element (12) includes a plurality of inclined slots (13) forming a
plurality of air outlet cross sections, wherein an inclination of the individual slots
(13) is respectively advantageously adjustable.
8.      The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 - 7, characterized in that
the at least one jet element (12) is rotatable in its entirety or arranged at a side wall
(5) associated with the jet element (12) so that an inclination of the slots (13) is
adjustable by rotating the respective jet element (12).
9.      The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 - 7, characterized by at
 least one row (11, 11') of jet elements (12) that are offset from each other in at
least one side wall (5) of the housing (4).
 10.    The air outlet (1) according to one of the claims 1 - 9, wherein the air outlet
(1) includes a plurality of jet elements (12) characterized in that openings of the jet
elements (12) respectively cooperate with control elements, wherein inclinations of
the control elements of respective jet elements (12) are different.
                                            14

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    1/2
Fig. 1

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         2/2
                                24
         23
                   22
Fig. 2

