        ABSTRACT
Various embodiments that may generally relate to one or more games at one or more venues.
Gaming at a venue may qualify a player for a bonus game. A pool from which awards are paid for
winning the bonus game may be funded through gaming activity that is not at the one or more
venues.

        SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING MONEY FROM MULTIPLE
                                              PLAYERS
   Cross Reference to Related Applications
   [0001] This application is a non-provisional of US Provisional Application No. 61/644,693
 5 filed May 9, 2012, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
   [0002] Some embodiments may generally relate to gaming.
10 Back2round
   [0003]          Events may be form the basis of a game on which money may be risked.
   Various events, such as horse races, other sporting events, casino games, non-sporting
   events, and so on may be played.
15 Summary
   [0004]          The following should be understood as example embodiments and not as
   claims.
   [0005] A. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, information about a first
   set of games that are based on one or more events, in which the one or more events are held
20 at a venue, in which the first set of games are played by first players that are not located at
   the venue; based on the first players not being located at the venue, allocating, by the
   computing device, a portion of first money used to play the first set of games to a bonus pool
   to which players located at the venue may gain access; receiving, by the computing device,
   information about a second set of games that are based on the one or more events, in which
25 the second set of games are played by second players that are located at the venue, in which
   no portion of second money used to play the second set of games is allocated to the bonus
   pool; based on the second players being located at the venue, allocating, by the computing
   device, bonus currency to the second players, in which the bonus currency may be used by
   the second players to play a bonus games that may win at least part of the bonus pool;
                                                      1

   receiving, by the computing device, a request to play a bonus game using the bonus currency
   from one of the second players, in which the request identifies a winning condition of a
   second event held at the venue; and determining, by the computing device, an outcome of
   the bonus game, in which the one of the second players wins money from the bonus pool if
 5 the winning condition occurs in the second event.
   [0006] A. 1. The method of claim A, in which the request to play the bonus game is a wager
   of an amount of bonus currency that the winning condition will occur, in which the winning
   condition includes at least one guess at a winner of a race. A.2. The method of claim A,
   comprising: determining a date at which the bonus currency expires if the bonus currency is
10 not used and identifying the date to the one of the second players.
   [0007] A.3. The method of claim A, comprising: determining that the second event is
   eligible to be a basis of the bonus game and allowing the use of bonus currency to play the
   bonus game on the second event in response. A.3.1. The method of claim A.3, in which
   determining that the second event is eligible includes determining that the second event is a
15 last event of a day held at the venue, and in which the method includes preventing use of the
   bonus currency on other events of the day. A.3.2. The method of claim comprising:
   determining that no one wins a bonus game based on the second event and carrying forward
   a balance of the bonus pool to a future event on which a future bonus game may be based.
   A.3.2.1. The method of claim A.3.2. comprising: determining that a bonus pool must be won
20 on the future event; determining that no one wins a bonus game based on the future event;
   and awarding the bonus pool to at least one player of the bonus game based on the future
   event that did not win based on a determination that the bonus pool must be won on the
   future event. A.3.3. The method of claim A.3, in which non-bonus games may be played
   based on the second event with non-bonus currency.
25 [0008] A.4. The method of claim A, in which any event qualifies to be a basis of the bonus
   game. A.5. The method of claim A, comprising: requiring that the bonus game be a wager
   with a particular risk characteristic. A.5.1. The method of claim A.5, in which requiring that
   the bonus game be the wager with the particular risk characteristic includes requiring that
   the bonus game be a superfecta wager. A.6. The method of claim A, comprising: based on
30 the first players not being located at the venue, not allocating any bonus currency to the first
   players. A.7. The method of claim A, in which a respective amount of bonus currency
                                                      2

   allocated to each second player is proportional to an amount risked by each respective
   second game that is a winning game played by the second player, in which the bonus
   currency is not exchangeable for a monetary value, and in which the bonus game may not be
   played without using bonus currency.
 5 [0009] A.8. The method of claim A, comprising: determining that no portion of the second
   money should be allocated to the bonus pool based on the second set of games being played
   at the venue. A.8.1. The method of claim A.8, comprising determining the location based on
   at least one of a GPS coordinates of devices used to play the second games and a network
   through which the second games were played. A.8.2. The method of claim A.8, in which the
10 second set of game are played through the venue. A.8.3. The method of claim A.8, in which
   determining that no portion of the second money should be allocated to the bonus pool
   includes determining that no portion of the second money should be allocated to the bonus
   pool based on the second set of games being played at the venue and through a approved
   gaming provider. A.8.3.1. The method of claim A.8.3, comprising allocating a portion of
15 third money used to play a third set of games to the bonus pool based on the third set of
   games being played at the venue and with an unapproved gaming provider.
   [00010]          A.9. The method of claim A, in which bonus currency includes points that
   may be used to play the bonus game. A.10. The method of claim A, in which the first set of
   games are first wagers related to one or more horse races run at the venue and the second set
20 of games are second wagers related to the same one or more horse races. A.10.1. The
   method of claim A.10, in which the first money is money risked in the first wagers and the
   second money is money risked in the second wagers. A. 11. The method of claim A, in
   which the portion differs for each game based on a riskiness of the game and the method
   comprises determining the portion.
25 [00011]          B. An apparatus comprising: a computing device; and a non-transitory
   medium having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when executed by the
   computing device cause the apparatus to: receive information about a first set of games that
   are based on one or more events, in which the one or more events are held at a venue, in
   which the first set of games are played by first players that are not located at the venue;
30 based on the first players not being located at the venue, allocate portion of first money used
   to play the first set of games to a bonus pool to which players located at the venue may gain
                                                     3

   access; receive information about a second set of games that are based on the one or more
   events, in which the second set of games are played by second players that are located at the
   venue, in which no portion of second money used to play the second set of games is
   allocated to the bonus pool; based on the second players being located at the venue, allocate
 5 bonus currency to the second players, in which the bonus currency may be used by the
   second players to play a bonus games that may win at least part of the bonus pool; receive a
   request to play a bonus game using the bonus currency from one of the second players, in
   which the request identifies a winning condition of a second event held at the venue; and
   determine an outcome of the bonus game, in which the one of the second players wins
10 money from the bonus pool if the winning condition occurs in the second event.
   Brief Description of the Drawin2s
   [00012]         Figure 1 shows an example method that may be performed in some
   embodiment
15 [00013]         Figure 2 shows an example of some embodiments.
   Detailed Description
           I.      Example Embodiments
   [00014]         Colloquially, gaming may be referred to as wagering but it should be
20 understood that embodiments are not limited to the statutory definition of wagering that is
   limited to games of chance but rather may include games of skill, fantasy games, games of
   chance, and/or any other type of games, and therefore the term gaming may be used when
   discussing some embodiments rather than the term wagering. Gaming may include a risk of
   an amount of money that some event will happen. Such risk may be skill and/or risk based,
25 booked and/or pari-mutuel, and/or take any form desired. Gaming may include paying a fee
   to enter into a contest that is based on the occurrence of an event. The winner of such a
   contest may be provided with an award (e.g., money based on a sum of contest entry fees).
   Wagering may be used herein to refer to such skill or risk based gaming in some instances
   and should not be understood to be limited to one or the other type of gaming unless
30 specified otherwise. Gaming may include wagering, betting, risking money, paying an entry
                                                      4

   fee to a contest, and/or any other form of gaming as desired. Various embodiments may
   apply to any type of gaming in any combination and/or arrangement.
   [00015]          Some embodiments may include facilitating game play related to one or more
   events at one or more venues. Some embodiments may include managing money used to
 5 play games by a plurality of players. The players may play games at a venue where an event
   is being held, through a third party, remote from the venues, at an off-track gaming facility,
   through an online gaming provider, and so on. In some embodiments, a portion of money
   used to play games by at least some players may be used to fund some gaming option that
   may be available to a subset of players. For example, players may qualify for such a gaming
10 option by performing a specific action (e.g., taking a game action (e.g., placing a wager) at a
   venue where an event is being held, taking a gaming action with a preferred gaming
   operator, winning a game on a set of events, and so on).
   [00016]                 For example, in some embodiments, one or more horse races may be
   held at a race track over some period of time. If a player plays a game (e.g., places a wager)
15 based on the one or more horse races at the race track and/or wins such a game during that
   period of time, the player may be qualified for a gaming option (e.g., wager) that may not
   otherwise be available. Additional players may play games through off-track providers (e.g.,
   websites, off-track gaming facilities) on the same event. A portion of money used to play
   those games may be placed into a pool for the gaming option that the player is qualified for
20 by playing the game at the race track. The other players (e.g., because they did not play the
   game at the track and/or do not win such a game) may not be qualified for that wagering
   option. The player may at some point exercise the gaming option to play a game that relates
   to some other event (e.g., a last race of a day). The player may win money from a pot funded
   by other players if the player wins the gaming option.
25 [00017]                 Although some examples herein may be given in terms of a horse
   racing environment, it should be recognized that such an environment is given as a non
   limiting example only. Various embodiments may include any types of events, such as
   political events, casino games, sporting events, card games, board games, fantasy games,
   reality show outcomes, and so on. Various embodiments may include any type of race, such
30 as human races and dog races. Various embodiments may include any type of venues, such
                                                      5

   as hosting venues, primary gaming venues, casinos, race tracks, sports arenas, bingo halls,
   sports lottery facilities, lottery facilities, and so on.
   [00018]         It is recognized that players may have shifted their gaming activity from on
   site or live gaming to remote gaming (e.g., gaming through the internet or at off-site gaming
 5 facilities). Some embodiments may include incentives for players to shift their gaming
   activity to on-site gaming. For example, a bonus game may be offered to on-site players that
   is funded by off-site players.
   [00019]          Some embodiments may include a gaming provider. A gaming provider may
   include casinos, a sports book, a totalizer, a (sports) lottery provider, a horse racing
10 establishment, a fantasy sports operator, and so on. A gaming provider may include one or
   more computing devices that may take gaming related actions such as accept money (e.g.,
   money risked in a game, money paid as a contest entry fee, money wagered), audit events,
   verify users, determine outcomes, track results, receive information, maintain account
   information, transmit information, maintain pari-mutuel pools, determine odds, and/or
15 perform any desired actions. Such a computing device may include a server operated on
   behalf of a gaming provider.
   [00020]          Some embodiments may include one or more user devices. Such devices may
   allow users to interface with a gaming operator to play games, view information about
   games, access account information, view results, take game related actions, and so on. Such
20 user devices may include smart phones, other cell phones, tablets, personal computers,
   kiosks, devices operated by gaming provider personnel, and so on.
   [00021]         Figure 1 illustrates an example method that may be performed in some
   embodiments. It should be recognized that this example method is given as a non-limiting
25 example only. Other embodiments may include no method, a different method, a differently
   ordered method, a method with alternative actions, a method with different actions, a
   method with additional actions, and so on. In some embodiments, such a method may be
   performed by a gaming operator (e.g., a venue, a gaming server of a venue, a totalizer, a
   combination of entities, and so on).
30 [00022]          Some embodiments may include receiving information identifying that a first
   plurality of games have been played based on at least one of a first set of events as indicated
                                                          6

   at block 101. For example, a totalizer such as that run by AmTote may collect information
   about wagers that may be placed from a plurality of different locations. For example, games
   may be played at one or more off track gaming facilities, race tracks, internet gaming
   portals, mobile device gaming operators, and so on. Money risked in gameplay may be
 5 totaled, tracked, accounted for, acted on, and so on by a totalizer and/or other entity such as
   a gaming operator. Game information (e.g., indications of game actions, game outcomes,
   etc.) may be transmitted to a venue or other gaming operator from such a totalizer and/or
   may be transmitted from such a gaming operator to a totalizer as desired and in accordance
   with a desired arrangement of components in various embodiments.
10 [00023]         In some embodiments, some or all money risked on games that relate to a
   same event may be pooled into one or more pari-mutuel pools. Pari-mutuel gaming is well
   known in the art and one of ordinary skill in the art would understand the various forms that
   such gaming may take. In some embodiments, some or all money risked on games that relate
   to a same event may be booked by a gaming operator. Booked gaming is well known in the
15 art and one of ordinary skill in the art would understand the various forms that such gaming
   may take.
   [00024]         A totalizer may perform the method of figure 101, some actions of such a
   method, and/or may not be involved in such a method at all. For example, rather than a
   totalizer, a gaming operator such as a venue may perform such a method and/or actions
20 related to such a method. For example, rather than a totalizer, a venue may collect such
   information directly. It should be recognized that what or where such an action is performed
   is not limiting and that examples of a totalizer and/or other gaming operator (e.g., gaming
   server of a gaming venue) are given as examples only.
   [00025]         In some embodiments, games may be played through a first set of game
25 portals, which may be referred to as sources (or wager or game or money sources). Such
   portals may accept money risked by players of games. Such game portals may include off
   track gaming facilities, other venues than a venue hosting an event, casinos, sports books,
   internet gaming portals, and so on. In some embodiments, such game portals may include
   any manner or place through which a user may take gaming actions (e.g., risk money) on an
30 event. Such portals may include locations other than a venue that is hosting the event.
                                                     7

   [00026]          Games, for example, may include a specific type of game, and/or any game
   depending on a desire of a gaming operator (e.g., certain types of games may qualify for
   treatment of such a method such as those that have a house take above or below a certain
   percentage while others may not qualify). It should be recognized that any manner of
 5 determining how to treat a game based on a characteristic of the game (e.g., source of money
   risked, type of the game, etc.) may be used to determine how to treat such a game. A game
   for example may include an exacta game, a win place or show game, and so on through
   which a player may risk money that an outcome in one or more events may occur. For
   example, a player may play a win game by selecting a horse that the player thinks will win
10 in a race and risking an amount of money that that horse will win for a chance to win more
   money if that horse does win.
   [00027]          A first set of events may include any desired number, combination, and/or
   type of events. For example, a first set of events may include events taking place on a day at
   a race track. As another example, a first set of events may include events taking place in a
15 competition that may be held in one or more locations (e.g., the set of triple crown races, one
   particular day of the triple crown races).
   [00028]          Some embodiments may include determining that a second plurality of games
   have been played based on at least one of the first set of events as indicated at block 103.
   For example, some embodiments may include receiving information about money risked in
20 play of such games from players (e.g., receiving by a race track through a kiosk, teller,
   mobile device, receiving by a totalizer from a source such as a race track hosting the event,
   receiving wagers and/or wager related information). In some embodiments, such
   determination may be made in response to receiving such money related information from
   players (e.g., by a gaming operator and/or totalizer).
25 [00029]          In some embodiments, the first plurality of games and the second plurality of
   games may differ from one another based on a source of the games (e.g., the first plurality
   may be related to off track/venue game actions and the second plurality may be related to on
   track or venue game actions). It should be recognized that such differences are given as non
   limiting examples only and that in some embodiments such differences may include a type
30 (e.g., trifecta may qualify, but other games may not qualify for bonus points), a preferred or
   non-preferred source (e.g., from a partner vs. a non-partner source), a game risked amount
                                                      8

   (e.g., games in which money over a threshold amount is risked may qualify for bonus points,
   but otherwise may not), a player characteristic, etc.
   [00030]          Some embodiments may include determining a respective outcome of each of
   the first and second plurality of games based on at least one result of the at least one of the
 5 first set of events as indicated at block 105. For example, some embodiments may include
   receiving information identifying an outcome of each of a plurality of races (e.g., from a
   race track, from a system designed to record outcomes of a race, from a staff member
   watching the race at a race track, from a third party information provider, and so on). Such
   information may be used to determine whether one or more of the games are winning or
10 losing games. For example, a race track, totalizer, and/or game source may use result
   information to determine if a game wins when a result occurs (e.g., if a wager identifies a
   correct actual winner or other actual resulting situation).
   [00031]          Some embodiments may include, based on a first source of the first plurality
   of games, allocating a portion of an amount risked by the first plurality of games to a pool of
15 money for a bonus game as indicated at block 107. For example, in some embodiments,
   games that are played off of a track (e.g., games for which money is risked through a mobile
   device not located on a track, through an off track gaming facility, through an internet
   gaming portal, etc.) may have a portion of money associated with such games allocated to a
   pool of money for a bonus game. Such a pool may be referred to as a bonus pool. A bonus
20 pool may be accessed by players at a venue by using bonus points earned through gaming
   activity at the venue to play a bonus game.
   [00032]          In some embodiments, a venue may allow games based on events at the
   venue to be played through such remote sources. Such sources may pay some fee for to the
   venue for allowing those games to be played (e.g., a 3%, 9%, 12%, flat fee, and so on fee for
25 the ability to broadcast race information and/or accept money risked on games). Such a fee
   may be allocated by a totalizer, paid by a remote source, allocated by a gaming provider, and
   so on. A portion of such a fee that is due to a venue may be allocated to a bonus pool for a
   bonus game. For example, 1% of such a fee, 1% of the money risked or otherwise spent in
   gameplay, all of such a fee, and so on may be allocated to a pool for a bonus game. In some
30 embodiments, a portion may differ depending on a source (e.g., some sources may be
   associated with one level for allocation and another source may be associated with a
                                                      9

   different level of allocation). Such a level of allocation may be related to an amount of a fee,
   a business partnership with a source, and so on.
   [00033]         Such money may be allocated by a totalizer, a gaming operator, and so on
   that may be performing one or more portions of such a method as that in figure 1. Some
 5 embodiments may include allocating money to such a pool from a plurality of games from a
   plurality of sources over a plurality of events. For example, money related to a game played
   by a first player through an internet gaming portal that is based on a first race may be
   allocated to the pool along with money related to a game played by a second player through
   an off track gaming facility that is based on a second race.
10 [00034]         In some embodiments, to facilitate such allocation, a determination of a
   source may be performed. A source may be reported to a gaming operator or other entity
   performing a method such as that of figure 1 by a source itself (e.g., when reporting the
   gameplay).
   [00035]         In some embodiments, a location of a player when a game action is taken
15 may define a source and/or may otherwise by used to determine how to allocate money to a
   bonus pool. For example, a source may include a location at which a game action is taken
   (e.g., a wager is placed). A mobile device may be used to take a game action. If that device
   is on a grounds of a race track, then allocation to the pool may not be performed. If that
   device is off of a grounds of a race track, then allocation to the pool may be performed.
20 Accordingly, some embodiments may include determining a location of the mobile device
   (e.g., receiving GPS coordinates, determining if the device is connected to a Wi-Fi network
   that spans the grounds, determining a location based on IP location, determining a location
   based on a geofence, etc.). Some examples of a mobile device operation that may be used in
   some embodiments is described in US patent application 13/780157, which is hereby
25 incorporated herein by reference.
   [00036]         Some embodiments may allow money risked in a game to not be allocated to
   a bonus pool and/or may allow a player to earn bonus gameplay if game actions are taken on
   the grounds and/or through an approved gaming source (e.g., an application related to the
   venue). Risked money may be allocated to a bonus pool and/or not earn bonus gameplay if it
30 is performed through other wagering sources (e.g., through generic internet portals) and/or at
   a location off of a property of a venue. It should be recognized that any method of location
                                                      10

   determination and/or source determination may be used in various embodiments. Various
   examples of location and/or source determination are known in the art (e.g., GPS,
   geofencing, IP address, etc.).
   [00037]          Some embodiments may include, based on a second source of the second
 5 plurality of games, determining that no portion of the second plurality of money risked
   through play of the second games should be allocated to the pool as indicated at block 109.
   For example, in some embodiments, games that are played at a race track and/or through
   some approved source may be excluded from such allocation. Accordingly, games that are
   played off of the track may be subject to such allocation but games that are played at the
10 track may not be subject to such allocation. As discussed elsewhere some embodiments may
   include determining a location and/or source of a game to facilitate a determination
   regarding whether to make such an allocation or not.
   [00038]          Although some embodiments are described as including and/or excluding
   from such allocation some games (e.g., some money risked through gameplay), it should be
15 recognized that such examples are given as non-limiting examples only. Some embodiments
   may allocate based on location, based on source, based on amount risked, based on type of
   game, based on riskiness of game, and so on and may exclude from such allocation based on
   such characteristics in any combination as desired. Some embodiments may include
   allocating related to all games, allocating related to certain types of games, no such
20 allocating (e.g., a pool or payout funded in another manner), differently arranged allocation,
   and so on. For example, in some embodiments all games may be subject to such allocation
   but only certain game may earn bonus gameplay abilities.
   [00039]          Some embodiments may include providing, to each winning player in one of
   the second plurality of games, an amount of points that is usable for a bonus gaming option
25 (e.g., a wager that has its payout funded by the bonus pool). Accordingly, each of these
   players may be given a chance to play a bonus game even though they may not have
   contributed to the bonus pool. An amount of points provided to the winning players may be
   based on an amount won by the winning players, an amount risked in a winning game by the
   winning players, a flat amount, an amount based on a number of games played by the
30 winning players, an amount based on a type of game played by the winning players (e.g.,
   more points for more risky games), and so on. For example, an amount may be equal to an
                                                      11

   amount risked (e.g., $2 provided in response to a $2 wager), an amount may be increased for
   a low probability game (e.g., $4 in points provided in response to a $2 trifecta game), and so
   on. It should be recognized that any manner of determining points may be used in various
   embodiments.
 5 [00040]         It should be recognized that while points may be referred to in dollar values
   that such naming convention is given as an examples only. For example, rather than $4 in
   points, 4 points may be provided. Points may or may not have a monetary value. For
   example, in some embodiments points may be referred to as dollars, but may not actually
   have any monetary value and may only be used to place bonus wagers. In some
10 embodiments actual dollars may be used. Such dollars may be assigned to an account that
   may be limited to use in play of a bonus game. It should be recognized that examples of
   bonus points and/or dollars are given as non-limiting examples only. Various embodiments
   may include any manner of providing one or more a player with a fixed and/or variable
   ability to play one or more bonus games.
15 [00041]         It should be recognized that while some examples are given in terms of
   winning players, that other embodiments may include all players, losing players, players that
   play and/or win a particular type of game, and so on. For example, for each superfecta game
   played by a player at a track, that player may be given an amount of points equal to the bet
   amount regardless of an outcome of the game.
20 [00042]         Examples of earning and/or otherwise being awarded bonus game play
   options are given as non-limiting examples only. In some embodiments players regardless of
   source and/or location may earn such bonus play ability. In some embodiments, however,
   allocation into a bonus pool may be only done for players that are from certain sources. In
   some embodiments, bonus play may be limited to use at a venue and/or through a preferred
25 source. It should be recognized that various embodiments may include different
   arrangements of bonus play ability, bonus denominating, bonus allocation, bonus earnings,
   allocation regimes, and/or other components that may related to game play.
   [00043]         Points and/or any other bonus game play ability may be provided by a
   gaming operator, a totalizer, and so on. For example, in some embodiments, a totalizer may
30 maintain balances for each player. The totalizer may include a balance of points that are
   eligible for use in the bonus game that may be adjusted in response to a game winning, a
                                                    12

   game action being taken, and so on. Such a totalizer may also maintain and/or adjust other
   balances (e.g.., gaming account used to take gaming actions, account into which winnings
   are deposited, etc.). In some embodiments, such providing and/or maintenance may be
   performed by a gaming operator separate from and/or in connection with a totalizer.
 5 [00044]         In some embodiments, players that placed the first set of games may not be
   provided with any points. For example, such players may be players that are off of the track
   and therefore not eligible for a bonus game. Such players may earn such points by playing
   games on the track rather than off the track and/or otherwise complying with point eligibility
   rules of a particular embodiment. In some embodiments, players that play games through
10 different sources may be allocated different amounts of points than each other and/or players
   that play games at a venue where an event occurs. For example, off-track games maybe
   awarded half of the points of on-track games.
   [00045]         In some embodiments, points may have an expiration date. For example,
   points may last until an end of a day, an end of a competition that a game based on event is
15 part of, an end of a season, an end of a week, an end of a year, and so on. If such points are
   not used by such time, the points may be eliminated from a player's account. A gaming
   operator and/or totalizer may track such points, the use of such points, expiration of such
   points, and so on such that a balance of points may be adjusted accordingly. In other
   embodiments, points may not expire.
20 [00046]          Some embodiments may include allowing a winning player to play a bonus
   game (e.g., place a wager of points that if won is paid from a bonus pool). A bonus game
   may include a game that is based on a last event of a day, week, month, competition, and so
   on. A bonus game may be required to be a particular type of game (e.g., a parlay game, a
   superfecta game, a trifecta game, a game with a particular risk level, and so on). Different
25 bonus games (e.g., on different days) may have different requirements (e.g., different games
   required on different days). A gaming operator or other entity may make a determination of
   the requirements for a particular bonus game (e.g., on a particular day). A bonus game may
   allow a player who has been awarded points to use those points as a currency for the bonus
   game. A winner of the bonus game may receive an amount of money from the bonus pool
30 into which money from the first plurality of games has been allocated. Allowing such play
                                                    13

   of games may include accepting risked money (wagers, contest entry fees, etc.) from devices
   such as kiosks, mobile devices, teller systems, and so on.
   [00047]          Some embodiments may include accepting such risked money and/or
   allowing such gaming actions during a specific time. Such a time may be related to when
 5 points expire, when a game that resulted in points being provided to the player occurred, an
   end of a competition, an end of a day, and so on. For example, such a bonus game may be
   required to be played (e.g., if at all, to avoid losing points) by an end of a day on which the
   points are earned. In some embodiments a bonus game may be required to be played before
   one hour before the final race of the day on which the game that was won to earn points was
10 played. Accordingly, players may be encouraged to remain at a track to play such a bonus
   game. In some embodiments, such points may be required to be used on a different day than
   when they are earned (e.g., thereby encouraging the player to return to the track to play the
   game on a different day). In some embodiments, there may be no such requirement (e.g., the
   points may be used any time before the even on which the bonus game is based starts and/or
15 gaming is otherwise closed such as in a in running type game). Some embodiments may
   include determining whether a time or other criteria are met for the use of points and in
   response, allowing or disallowing a bonus game to be played using the points.
   [00048]          Some embodiments may include receiving bonus game actions using the
   points awarded to players. For example, a gaming operator and/or totalizer may receive
20 indications of bonus game actions (e.g., that meet any required criteria if any such as being a
   particular type of game) from devices (e.g., mobile devices, kiosks, teller devices, etc.). An
   example of this is indicated at block 113. In some embodiments, an amount of the points
   may be put into play in a bonus game (e.g., risked like money in a wager, used as a contest
   entry fee, etc.). Accordingly, in some embodiments, a player may play any number of bonus
25 games using the points in any combination (e.g., $1 of points on horses 1, 2, and 3 and $2 on
   horses 2, 4, and 6) similar to a manner in which money may be used for traditional
   gameplay. An account of such points may be reduced in response to points being used to
   play bonus games. A player playing a bonus game may be required to meet criteria for that
   game (e.g., be in an approved location, place a minimum, maximum, risk a required amount
30 on a bonus game, play a particular type of game as the bonus game, etc.). A balance of
                                                       14

   bonus points may be adjusted in response to playing a successful and/or unsuccessful bonus
   game to reflect the points used to play the game.
   [00049]         In some embodiments, a bonus game may be closed to currency that is not
   the points (or some other denomination of bonus game playability such as money in a
 5 special account). For example, no cash or other money may be used to play a bonus game.
   Accordingly, the bonus game and/or bonus pool may be limited to those players that earned
   points through the play of qualifying games, winning such games, any/or otherwise earning
   points.
   [00050]         Some embodiments may include awarding one or more winners of a bonus
10 game as indicated at block 115. For example, if a player correctly chooses the winner(s) of
   an event as play of a bonus game, the player may be awarded from the bonus pool. The
   bonus pool may be treated substantially similar to a pari-mutuel pool. For example, the pool
   may be split among any winners in proportion to an amount of points that the winners
   risked. A gaming operator and/or totalizer may adjust a balance of an account in response to
15 a player winning a bonus game.
   [00051]         It should be recognized that while some embodiments have been described as
   including a pari-mutuel style bonus pool, that such embodiments are given as non-limiting
   examples. For example, some embodiments may include bonus games that are booked
   games rather than pooled games. A bonus pool may be used to if at all in such an example to
20 determine a payout for a game and/or to compensate a booker of the bonus games.
   [00052]         In some embodiments, if no player wins a bonus game for a particular event
   (e.g., a bonus game that is limited to the end of a day), the bonus pool may roll over to a
   next bonus game (e.g., a bonus game that may be played at the end of a next day).
   Accordingly, the bonus pool may grow over time if players do not win the bonus game. In
25 some embodiments, characteristics of a bonus game may be selected to so that it is expected
   that the pool will grow. For example, the game type may be limited to a superfecta or other
   game that is difficult to win so that there is expected to be few winners and therefore the
   pool is expected to grow over time.
   [00053]         Some embodiments may include an end point for rolling over a bonus pool.
30 For example, in some embodiments, at the end of each month, at the end of each
   competition, at the end of each day, and so on a pool may be required to be awarded. For
                                                      15

   example, no roll over may occur, roll over until a maximum pool amount may occur, roll
   over until a last day of a month may occur, and so on. If no player wins the bonus pool,
   before such an end point, second place or non-winning players may be awarded the bonus
   pool. For example, players that get three out of four correct in a superfecta in a final bonus
 5 pool game may be awarded if no players get all four correct.
   [00054]          It should be recognized that figure 1 is illustrated as a non-limiting example
   only. Other embodiments may include alternative, different, same, more, fewer, differently
   ordered, none, all, and so on of the actions as illustrated in figure 1.
   [00055]          According to some embodiments that may include a method such as that
10 illustrated in figure 1, players may be encourage to game at a track rather than off of a track.
   Gaming on a track may provide a track owner with additional revenue. For example, players
   that game on the track may earn points (e.g., for a win or game action) that may be used to
   play a bonus gamer. The bonus game outcomes may be funded, at least in part, by games or
   fees that may be due to the track from games played off of the track (e.g., simulcasting fees,
15 percentages of the games played off-track, etc.). Accordingly, even though players off of the
   track may be responsible for funding a bonus pool, such players may not have access to a
   bonus game and even though players on the track may not be responsible for funding a
   bonus pool, such players may have access to the bonus game.
   [00056]          Figure 2 illustrates an example of some embodiments. For example, figure 2
20 illustrates a venue 201 at which one or more events may take place. Figure 2 illustrates a
   totalizer 203 that may act to maintain wagers related to the one or more bets from a plurality
   of sources. Figure 2 illustrates a player 205 located at the venue who may take game actions
   related to the one or more events. Figure 2 illustrates an off track gaming facility 207 at
   which one or more players may play games based on the one or more events remotely from
25 the venue. Figure 2 illustrates a player 209 located at the off track gaming facility who may
   take one or more gaming actions related to the one or more events remotely from the venue.
   Figure 2 illustrates an internet gaming portal 211 through which one or more players may
   play games based on the one or more events remotely from the venue. Figure 211 illustrates
   a player 213 that may play games through the internet gaming portal based on the one or
30 more events held at the venue. It should be recognized that this example structure and/or
   these example components are given as a non-limiting example only.
                                                      16

   [00057]           Venue 201 may include a horse track, a casino, a sports book, a wagering
   facility, a sporting venue, a stadium, and so on. It should be recognize that various
   embodiments are not limited to any particular venue. It should be recognized that various
   embodiments are not limited to a single venue, but rather may include multiple venues (e.g.,
 5 related to a single gaming operator, at which events occur, that may offer a competition
   through a totalizer, and so on). For example, a set of sports books may operate such a sports
   book bonus pool for games at the sports book vs. games placed using mobile devices away
   from the sports book.
   [00058]          Venue 201 may include a gaming server and/or one or more other computing
10 devices that may perform one or more actions such as those of figure 1. For example, such a
   computing device may include a kiosk, a teller computer, a mobile device of a user, and so
   on. Such a computing device may display a gaming interface, display balance information,
   accept money risked in gameplay, transmit information, maintain balance information,
   communicate with a totalizer, determine outcomes, display information about outcomes, and
15 so on. For example, in one example, a mobile device of a user may risk money by taking one
   or more game actions through a router or other network component that operates a gaming
   network at the venue. A gaming action may be taken by transmitting information through
   the network to a totalizer. The information may identify that the mobile device is located at
   the venue (e.g., an IP address, a GPS location, a network ID to which the device is
20 connected, a username and/or password that is associated with the venue, and so on. Such
   information may be used to determine allocation of bonus points and/or money into a bonus
   pool. A system of such a venue may perform a method of figure 1 and/or some other method
   that may encourage players to game at the venue rather than off the venue. Such a method
   may be performed solely by such a system and/or in connection with a totalizer and/or other
25 component of figure 2 or otherwise.
   [00059]           Totalizer 203 may include may include a system such as one provided by
   AmTote International of Hunt Valley, Maryland. Such a system may include one or more
   computing devices. Such a system may receive information from one or more venues, one or
   more other gaming sources, and so on. Such a system may maintain balance information,
30 pool information, and so on. Such a system may accept wagers, determine outcomes of
   wagers, adjust balance in response to game actions, adjust balances in response to outcomes,
                                                     17

   and so on. Such a system may receive outcome information from a venue, may assign bonus
   points, may allow users to use bonus points, may maintain a balance pool, may award
   money in response to a bonus game outcome, and so on. Such a system, in some
   embodiments, may perform a method such as that of figure 1 or otherwise to facilitate a
 5 bonus game that may encourage players to play at the venue 201 rather than off the venue.
   Such a method may be performed solely by such a system and/or in connection with a
   device of a venue and/or other component of figure 2 or otherwise.
   [00060]          Player 205 may include a player at a venue 201. For example, such a player
   may use a mobile device (e.g., a cell phone), a kiosk, a teller, and so on to play games
10 related to one or more events. Such a player may earn points to play bonus games through
   such gaming activity at the venue and may play bonus games using such points.
   [00061]          Off track gaming facility 207 may include a facility that is located remote
   from the venue that may allow players to take gaming actions related to events at the venue.
   For example, a player may use a device at such a facility and/or act through a teller at such a
15 facility to risk money through play of one or more games. The facility may transmit
   information identifying such game play to a totalizer and/or venue that may utilize such
   information (e.g., place risked money into a pool for an event, allocate money to a bonus
   pool, and so on). For example, in some embodiments, some portion of risked money may be
   placed into a pari-mutuel pool for an event, some portion of risked money may be allocated
20 to the venue (e.g., as a simulcast fee), and/or some portion of the risked money may be
   allocated into a bonus pool. The portion allocated into the bonus pool may come from the
   portion that would otherwise be allocated to the venue in some embodiments. A totalizer
   and/or device of a venue may perform such allocating according to a desired arrangement of
   an embodiment.
25 [00062]          Player 209 may include a player located at an off track gaming facility. Such
   a player may take one or more game actions using a computing device (e.g., kiosk, mobile
   device) and/or through a teller (who may use a teller computer). A game action may be part
   of a game that relates to an event at the venue. A portion of money risked through play of
   such games may be allocated to a bonus pool that the player may not be eligible for because
30 they are not gaming at the venue. Information about such games may be transmitted from
   such a device to a totalizer and/or device of a venue for allocation and/or other uses.
                                                     18

   [00063]         Internet gaming portal 211 may include a system through which a player may
   take one or more gaming actions through a webpage or other electronic interface. For
   example, such a system may present a webpage to a user that allows the user to login to an
   account and risk money in game play on an event at the venue. Such a portal may allow a
 5 player to play games from their home, from anywhere where remote wagering is legal, and
   so on. A portal may receive game actions and may transmit information about such game
   actions to a totalizer and/or system of a venue for use in a pool and so on.
   [00064]         Player 213 may include a player that uses internet gaming portal 211 to play
   one or more games. For example, such a player may log into the internet gaming portal
10 through a user device (e.g., personal computer, cell phone) and operate an interface to play
   one or more games. Information about such game actions may be transmitted from such a
   device to a totalizer and/or device of a venue for allocation and/or other uses.
   [00065]         In some embodiments, a source of a remote game play (e.g., an internet
   gaming portal and/or off track gaming facility) may receive a cut of money risked in game
15 play. For example, some percentage of each dollar risked in games may be allocated (e.g.,
   by a totalizer, by the source, and/or by system of a venue) to the source. Similarly, a totalizer
   may be allocated some payment for totalizing services. Such payment may be a portion of
   the amount risked in gameplay.
   [00066]         It should be recognized that while some embodiments have been described to
20 include allocating portions of amounts risked in gameplay, that such examples are given as
   non-limiting examples only. Other embodiments may include allocating a portion of money
   lost, a portion of money won, a portion of money for games of a certain type, no money
   related to games, a flat fee, and so on.
   [00067]          Some embodiments may include a communication network through which
25 one or more components may communicate. For example, such a communication network
   may include the Internet, a LAN, and so on. Information related to wager, bonus games,
   allocations, and so on may be transmitted through such communication networks.
   [00068]         It should be recognized that figure 2 is given as a non-limiting example only.
   Other embodiments may include any arrangement and or combination of elements as
30 desired. For example, some embodiments may include multiple venues (e.g., game play at
   any such venue related to events at any venue may qualify for a bonus game and/or earn
                                                    19

   points), not include a totalizer (e.g., a device at a venue may perform traditional totalizer
   services), include additional off site gaming options, include location detection functionality
   (e.g., geofencing, gps) that may allow a determination of a location of a player for allocation
   purposes, and so on.
 5 [00069]         In one example, a 0.5 percent of a total amount of money risked in game play
   not at a venue may be allocated to a bonus pool available at the venue. Players that play
   games at the venue may gain access to the bonus pool. Such players may play a bonus game
   (e.g., a game of a similar form to the other games, a game on a last event of a day that meets
   desired criteria) using earned bonus points. For example, a player may play a superfecta
10 game on a last race of an evening at a race track using bonus points. A minimum and/or
   maximum amount of points may be required to play a bonus game (e.g., 2 dollars in bonus
   points). Bonus points may be earned from winning games earlier at the venue (e.g., earlier
   in the day, games that meet a characteristic). For example, an amount of money risked in
   gameplay may be earned by a player for each trifecta game won by the player that is played
15 at the venue. Such point may be required to be used on the day that they are earned. Points
   may or may not be earned on an event on which a bonus game may be played (e.g., points
   may not be earned on a last event of a day, points earned on a last event of a day may be
   used at a later day even if points earned earlier in the day must be used on the last event of
   the day). Bonus points may carryover or expire each day or on any desired schedule. Unwon
20 bonus pool money may carryover from day to day. At some point a bonus pool may pay out
   even without a traditional winning bonus game. For example, a payout may be made to
   players with a highest number of correct result (3 out of 4, 2 out of 3, etc.), all possible
   combinations may be issued as quick picks on a date of payoff (e.g., using the Meadowlands
   race with 495 $2.00 bonus bets to be made and 5040 possible combinations, a device may
25 issue all the possible combinations to the 495 possible game players thereby guaranteeing a
   winner), and so on to facilitate payout on a date.
   [00070]         It will be understood that the technologies described herein for making,
   using, or practicing various embodiments are but a subset of the possible technologies that
   may be used for the same or similar purposes. The particular technologies described herein
30 are not to be construed as limiting. Rather, various embodiments contemplate alternate
   technologies for making, using, or practicing various embodiments.
                                                       20

   [00071]         Modifications, additions, or omissions may be made to the method without
   departing from the scope of the invention. The method may include more, fewer, or other
   steps. Additionally, steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from
   the scope of the invention.
 5 [00072]         While this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments and
   generally associated methods, alterations and permutations of the embodiments and methods
   will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the above description of example
   embodiments does not constrain this disclosure. Other changes, substitutions, and
   alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure, as
10 defined by the claims herein.
   [00073]         The following sections provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
   II.      Terms
   [00074]         The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of
15 matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00075]         The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
   [00076]         Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
   includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process
20 have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term.
   Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient
   antecedent basis.
   [00077]         The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions
   disclosed in this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
25 [00078]         The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the
   embodiment", "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments",
   "certain embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one
   or more (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
30 [00079]         The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention,
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
                                                    21

   [00080]         A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
   imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g.,
   an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
 5 [00081]         The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including
   but not necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the
   sentence "the portfolio includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio
   includes the red widget and the blue widget, but may include something else.
   [00082]         The term "consisting of' and variations thereof means "including and limited
10 to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the portfolio
   consists of a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red widget and
   the blue widget, but does not include anything else.
   [00083]         The term "compose" and variations thereof means "to make up the
   constituent parts of, component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise.
15 Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a portfolio"
   means the portfolio includes the red widget and the blue widget.
   [00084]         The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof means "to make up
   exclusively the constituent parts of, to be the only components of or to be the only members
   of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget
20 and the blue widget exclusively compose a portfolio" means the portfolio consists of the red
   widget and the blue widget, and nothing else.
   [00085]         The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly
   specified otherwise.
   [00086]         The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified
25 otherwise.
   [00087]         The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything
   which may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [00088]         The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things
   (such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those
30 things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a
   widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget
                                                     22

   and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a
   wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does
   not mean "one of each of' the plurality of things.
   [00089]         Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
 5 indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated
   by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical
   term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and
   therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
   [00090]         The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
10 specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on"
   and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at
   least in part on".
   [00091]         The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly
   specified otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only",
15 unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit
   card number" describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data
   represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
   [00092]         The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of
   words that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is
20 previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the
   clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further
   limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
   [00093]         The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit
   the term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
25 instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions"
   are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains
   that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet.
   However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and
   other things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
30 [00094]         The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two
   or more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own
                                                      23

   characteristic, and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For
   example, the phrase "each of two machines has a respective function" means that the first
   such machine has a function and the second such machine has a function as well. The
   function of the first machine may or may not be the same as the function of the second
 5 machine.
   [00095]           The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or
   phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions)
   over the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the
   computer sends over the Internet.
10 [00096]           Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers
   within the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically
   include whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers
   (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
   [00097]           Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an
15 explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term /
   phrase does not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning.
   For example, where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with
   "including but not limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to"
   does not mean that the term "including" means something other than "including but not
20 limited to".
   III.     Determining
   [00098]           The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine
   a price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in
25 an extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions
   and therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving,
   investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure),
   ascertaining and the like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving
   information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining"
30 can include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
                                                     24

   [00099]          The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
   therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the
   like.
   [000100]         The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
 5 performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply
   that an algorithm or process is used.
   [000101]         The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be
   used. For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
10 IV.     Forms of Sentences
   [000102]         Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as
   more than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget
   as well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first
   claim, the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the
15 widget"), this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does
   not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover
   both one widget and more than one widget).
   [000103]         When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used
   as an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified
20 otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular
   feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For
   example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second
   widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term
   "widget" does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets, and likewise
25 does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere
   usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not
   indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not
   indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3) does not
   indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in importance or quality. In
30 addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features
   identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers
                                                      25

   "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more
   than two widgets.
   [000104]        When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than
   one device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the
 5 single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as
   being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article
   (whether or not they cooperate).
   [000105]        Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described
   herein (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in
10 place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of
   computer-based devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device.
   Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one
   device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
   [000106]        The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may
15 be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not
   explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need
   not include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices
   which would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
20 V.      Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
   [000107]        Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
   application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as
   limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s), is to be used in interpreting
   the meaning of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim.. An Abstract
25 has been included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R.
    1.72(b).
   [000108]        The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
   present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the
   disclosure in any way.
30 [000109]        Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
   presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not
                                                      26

   intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely
   applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of
   ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with
   various modifications and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical
 5 modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described
   with reference to one or more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be
   understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular
   embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly
   specified otherwise.
10 [000110]        Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
   embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for example,
   a claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed embodiment, and
   such claim would not include features beyond those features that the claim expressly recites.
   [000111]        No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
15 application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed
   herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either
   expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
   [000112]        The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible
   uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
20 [000113]        The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
   invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s)
   which must be present in all embodiments.
   [000114]        All disclosed embodiment are not necessarily covered by the claims (even
   including all pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, an embodiment
25 may be (but need not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a claim
   (regardless of whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a particular
   embodiment, such is not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also cover that
   embodiment.
   [000115]        Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be
30 in continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
   contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may
                                                      27

   actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
   communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
   machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
   communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more
 5 intermediaries.
   [000116]         A description of an embodiment with several components or features does
   not imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a
   variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible
   embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no
10 component / feature is essential or required.
   [000117]         Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in
   a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders.
   In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed
   does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The
15 steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further, some
   steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non
   simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the
   illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated
   process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
20 illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply
   that the illustrated process is preferred.
   [000118]         Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that
   does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
   embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that
25 omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is
   essential or required.
   [000119]         Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
   products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or
   methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another
30 business model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability
   of the process.
                                                      28

   [000120]        Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
   aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
   plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of
   the described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described
 5 plurality.
   [000121]        An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
   imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does
   not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly
10 specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does
   not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not
   imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
   [000122]        An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
   imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each
15 other.
   [000123]        All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
   embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
   VI.      Computing
20 [000124]        It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
   processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general
   purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a
   processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more
   digital signal processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and
25 execute those instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by those
   instructions. Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or
   more scripts.
   [000125]        A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
   (CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or
30 any combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing /
                                                      29

   multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining
   configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
   [000126]        Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
   performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
 5 processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
   process.
   [000127]        Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of
   data) may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media)
   in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware
10 may be used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that
   can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of
   hardware and software may be used instead of software only.
   [000128]        The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of
   the same, or a combination of different media that participate in providing data (e.g.,
15 instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device.
   Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media,
   volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or
   magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random
   access memory (DRAM), which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission
20 media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise
   a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic
   waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio
   frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
   readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape,
25 any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards,
   paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an
   EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as
   described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.
   [000129]        Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data
30 (e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from
   RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and /
                                                    30

   or transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or
   IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, BluetoothD, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv)
   encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the
   art.
 5 [000130]          Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer
   readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable
   medium can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate
   to perform the method.
   [000131]          Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
10 the described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer /
   computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
   process.
   [000132]          Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not
   indicate that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable
15 medium storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a
   program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily
   all) of the described process.
   [000133]          Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill
   in the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed,
20 and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any
   illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative
   arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements
   may be employed besides those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or
   elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary
25 information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content
   of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further, despite any depiction of
   the databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases, object-based models
   and / or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the data types described
   herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement
30 various processes, such as the described herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known
   manner, be stored locally or remotely from a device which accesses data in such a database.
                                                       31

   [000134]        Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
   including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with
   one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or
   indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet,
 5 Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications line,
   commercial on-line service providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite communications
   link, a combination of any of the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise
   computers or other computing devices, such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium@ or
   CentrinoTM processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and
10 type of devices may be in communication with the computer.
   [000135]        In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
   necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be
   practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any
   functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored
15 on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
   [000136]        Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
   without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human
   intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
20 VII.     Continuing Applications
   [000137]        The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an
   enabling description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these
   embodiments and / or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but may
   nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of
25 priority of the present application.
   [000138]        Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject
   matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
   VIII. 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6
30 [000139]        In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or
   the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
                                                      32

   [000140]         In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means
   for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6 does not apply to that
   limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of
   structure, material or acts for performing that function. For example, in a claim, the mere
 5 use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps of the
   claim or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, applies to that
   step(s).
   [000141]         With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or acts
10 described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional functions as
   well as the specified function.
   [000142]         Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures
   that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a
   specified function by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a
15 memory device of that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless
   expressly specified otherwise, such a program need not be based on any particular
   algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present
   application. It is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function may
   be implemented via different algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would
20 be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified function.
   [000143]         Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified
   function in accordance with 35 U.S.C.  112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a
   specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified function.
   Such structure includes programmed products which perform the function, regardless of
25 whether such product is programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the
   function, (ii) an algorithm that is similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different
   algorithm for performing the function.
   [000144]         Where there is recited a means for performing a function that is a method,
   one structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general
30 purpose computer) that is programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to
   perform that function.
                                                       33

   [000145]       Also included is a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
   programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via
   other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
 5 IX.     Disclaimer
   [000146]       Numerous references to a particular embodiment do not indicate a disclaimer
   or disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the
   description of embodiments which all include a particular feature do not indicate a
   disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A
10 clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application shall be prefaced by the phrase
   "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot perform".
                                                   34

Claims
1. A method comprising:
         receiving, by a computing device, information about a first set of games that are based on
one or more events, in which the one or more events are held at a venue, in which the first set of
games are played by first players that are not located at the venue;
         based on the first players not being located at the venue, allocating, by the computing
device, a portion of first money used to play the first set of games to a bonus pool to which
players located at the venue may gain access;
         receiving, by the computing device, information about a second set of games that are
based on the one or more events, in which the second set of games are played by second players
that are located at the venue, in which no portion of second money used to play the second set of
games is allocated to the bonus pool;
         based on the second players being located at the venue, allocating, by the computing
device, bonus currency to the second players, in which the bonus currency may be used by the
second players to play a bonus games that may win at least part of the bonus pool;
         receiving, by the computing device, a request to play a bonus game using the bonus
currency from one of the second players, in which the request identifies a winning condition of a
second event held at the venue; and
         determining, by the computing device, an outcome of the bonus game, in which the one
of the second players wins money from the bonus pool if the winning condition occurs in the
second event;
         in which a respective amount of bonus currency allocated to each second player is
proportional to an amount risked by each respective second game that is a winning game played
by the second player, in which the bonus currency is not exchangeable for a monetary value, in
which each of the first games and second games includes an wager entry into a same pari-mutuel
pool.
2. The method of claim 1, in which the request to play the bonus game is a wager of an amount
of bonus currency that the winning condition will occur, in which the winning condition includes
at least one guess at a winner of a race.
                                                   35

3. The method of claim 1, comprising:
        determining a date at which the bonus currency expires if the bonus currency is not used
and identifying the date to the one of the second players.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising:
        determining that the second event is eligible to be a basis of the bonus game and allowing
the use of bonus currency to play the bonus game on the second event in response.
5. The method of claim 4, in which determining that the second event is eligible includes
determining that the second event is a last event of a day held at the venue, and in which the
method includes preventing use of the bonus currency on other events of the day.
6. The method of claim 4 comprising:
        determining that no one wins a bonus game based on the second event and carrying
forward a balance of the bonus pool to a future event on which a future bonus game may be
based.
7. The method of claim 6 comprising:
        determining that a bonus pool must be won on the future event; determining that no one
wins a bonus game based on the future event; and
        awarding the bonus pool to at least one player of the bonus game based on the future
event that did not win based on a determination that the bonus pool must be won on the future
event.
8. The method of claim 4, in which non-bonus games may be played based on the second event
with non-bonus currency.
9. The method of claim 1, in which any event qualifies to be a basis of the bonus game.
                                                 36

10. The method of claim 1, comprising:
        requiring that the bonus game be a wager with a particular risk characteristic.
11. The method of claim 10, in which requiring that the bonus game be the wager with the
particular risk characteristic includes requiring that the bonus game be a superfecta wager.
12. The method of claim 1, comprising:
        based on the first players not being located at the venue, not allocating any bonus
currency to the first players.
13. The method of claim 1, comprising:
        determining that no portion of the second money should be allocated to the bonus pool
based on the second set of games being played at the venue.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising determining the location based on at least one of a GPS
coordinates of devices used to play the second games and a network through which the second
games were played.
15. The method of claim 13, in which the second set of game are played through the venue.
16. The method of claim 13, in which determining that no portion of the second money should be
allocated to the bonus pool includes determining that no portion of the second money should be
allocated to the bonus pool based on the second set of games being played at the venue and
through a approved gaming provider.
17. The method of claim 16, comprising allocating a portion of third money used to play a third
set of games to the bonus pool based on the third set of games being played at the venue and with
an unapproved gaming provider.
18. The method of claim 1, in which:
        bonus currency includes points that may be used to play the bonus game; and/or
                                                   37

         the first set of games are first wagers related to one or more horse races run at the venue
and the second set of games are second wagers related to the same one or more horse races;
and/or
         the portion differs for each game based on a riskiness of the game and the method
comprises determining the portion.
19. The method of claim 18, in which the first money is money risked in the first wagers and the
second money is money risked in the second wagers.
20. An apparatus comprising:
         a computing device; and
         a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a plurality of instructions that when
executed by the computing device cause the apparatus to:
         receive information about a first set of games that are based on one or more events, in
which the one or more events are held at a venue, in which the first set of games are played by
first players that are not located at the venue;
         based on the first players not being located at the venue, allocate portion of first money
used to play the first set of games to a bonus pool to which players located at the venue may gain
access;
         receive information about a second set of games that are based on the one or more events,
in which the second set of games are played by second players that are located at the venue, in
which no portion of second money used to play the second set of games is allocated to the bonus
pool;
         based on the second players being located at the venue, allocate bonus currency to the
second players, in which the bonus currency may be used by the second players to play a bonus
games that may win at least part of the bonus pool;
         receive a request to play a bonus game using the bonus currency from one of the second
players, in which the request identifies a winning condition of a second event held at the venue;
and
         determine an outcome of the bonus game, in which the one of the second players wins
money from the bonus pool if the winning condition occurs in the second event;
                                                    38

        in which a respective amount of bonus currency allocated to each second player is
proportional to an amount risked by each respective second game that is a winning game played
by the second player, in which the bonus currency is not exchangeable for a monetary value, in
which each of the first games and second games includes an wager entry into a same pari-mutuel
pool.
                                               39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
