                                           ABSTRACT
          Syrups comprising oat-derived carbohydrates, methods for making such syrups, and the
uses of, and products comprising such syrups.

                                                1
                            APPLICATIONS OF OAT SYRUPS
   Technical Field
           The present invention relates to syrups comprising oat-derived carbohydrates,
 5 methods for making such syrups, and the uses of, and products comprising such
   syrups.
   Background
           Syrups are widely used as ingredients in the food and beverage industries, as
10 well as in the formulation of cosmetics and pharmaceutical products. In particular,
   syrups derived from grain, for example corn, rice and tapioca, are commonly used.
   Oat-derived syrups have been less commonly used, in part due to the difficulties in
   processing oats because of their comparatively high lipid content. Syrups with high
   lipid contents tend to have a shorter shelf life, due to their greater propensity to
15 rancidity.
   Summary
           According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
   of producing a syrup comprising (a) treating a solution comprising carbohydrates with
20 at least one a-amylase; (b) heating said solution to inactivate said a-amylase; (c)
   physical separation so as to remove at least some protein and lipids from said
   solution; and (d) subjecting said solution to evaporation, wherein said solution
   comprising carbohydrates comprises carbohydrates derived from oats.
           In an embodiment, the at least one ct-amylase comprises a bacterial a-amylase.
25         In an embodiment, at least one a-amylase comprises a fungal a-amylase.
           In an embodiment, at least one a-amylase comprises a bacterial a-amylase and
   a fungal a-amylase, and said bacterial a-amylase and fungal a-amylase are added
   sequentially to said solution comprising carbohydrates. Optionally, the solution
   comprising carbohydrates is treated with a bacterial a-amylase for a first pre
30 determined period of time, and is treated with a fungal a-amylase for a second pre
   determined period of time. Optionally, the first and second pre-determined periods of
   time overlap.

                                                2
            In an embodiment, during said treatment with the at least one a-amylase the
   dextrose equivalent of said solution is measured.
            In an embodiment, the solution comprising carbohydrates further comprises
   flour. Optionally, the flour comprises flour derived from oats. Optionally, prior to
 5 being treated with said at least one a-amylase, said solution comprising carbohydrates
   and flour is passed through a high shear mixer. Optionally, after said heating of said
   solution, and prior to said physical separation, at least some protein is removed from
   said solution.
            Another aspect of the invention provides a syrup produced by any of the
10 methods described above.
            In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 20.
            In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 42.
            In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 63.
            In an embodiment, the combined concentration of lipid and protein in said
15 syrup is less than 5% on a dry solids basis.
            Another aspect of the invention provides a syrup comprising oat-derived
   carbohydrates wherein the combined concentration of lipid and protein in said syrup
   is less than 5% on a dry solids basis.
            In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 20.
20          In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 42.
            In an embodiment, the syrup has a dextrose equivalent of about 63.
            Another aspect of the invention provides a product comprising any of the
   syrups described above, wherein the product is selected from the group comprising:
   ambient desserts; amino acid products; antioxidant products; baby cereals and
25 biscuits; baby drinks; baby formula and baby milk; baby meals; baking ingredients
   and mixes; beer; botanical and herbal supplements; flavoured bottled water;
   unflavoured bottled water; bouillons, stocks, seasonings and herbs; bread and bread
   products; breakfast cereals; cakes, pastries and sweet goods; carbonate products; cat
   food; cereal and energy bars; fresh cheese; cream cheese; processed cheese; semi-hard
30 and hard cheese; soft and semi-soft cheese; soft cheese desserts; chilled desserts;
   chocolate bars; chocolate blocks; chocolate pieces; cider; coenzyme q10 products;
   coffee; concentrates; cooking sauces; cream and creamers; dairy alternative drinks;

                                              3
   dietary fiber; dietary supplements; dog food; drink concentrates and mixes; drinking
   yogurt; fermented beverages; egg and egg products; energy drinks; fats and spreads;
   finger foods; hors d'oeuvres; fish and seafood; flavoured alcoholic beverages; frozen
   desserts; fruit; fruit and vegetable concentrates; fruit based snacks; fruit flavoured
 5 snacks; fruit pouches; glucosamine products; gum; gummies/jellies; hair, skin and
   nails products; hard candy; homeopathic treatments; hot chocolate; ice cream; iced
   coffee; iced tea; juice and juice drinks; main dishes; mayonnaise, dressings and
   vinegar; meal kits; meal replacements; meat products; meat snacks; meat substitutes;
   melatonin products; milk and milk drinks; softgel capsules, tablets; oils; oral care
10 products; chocolate confectionery; confectionery; dairy products; meal components;
   pet food; soft drinks; pickled condiments; chutney; pizza; plain pasta and noodles;
   plant based waters; popcorn; potato products; poultry; prepared pasta and noodles;
   prepared salads; probiotics; ready meals; rice; sandwiches; savory biscuits/crackers;
   savory/salty snacks; savoury spreads; snack nuts and seeds; soup; spirits and liqueurs;
15 spoonable dairy yogurt; spoonable non-dairy yogurt; sports bars; sports drinks RTD;
   sports powders; sports protein based RTD; sports supplements; sugar and sweeteners;
   sugar confectionery; sweet biscuits/cookies; sweet spreads; table sauces; tea; toffee
   and fudge; toppings; vegetables; vitamins/minerals; weight gain products; weight loss
   products; and wine.
20         In an embodiment, the product does not comprise an additional plasticizer.
   Optionally, the product is a cereal bar.
           Further features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from
   the following description of preferred embodiments of the invention, given by way of
   example only, which is made with reference to the accompanying drawings.
25
   Brief Description of the Drawings
           Figure 1 shows a process for producing a syrup comprising oat-derived
   carbohydrates.
           Figure 2 shows the viscosity of a 42DE syrup of the present invention as
30 compared with a 42DE corn syrup of the prior art.

                                               4
   Detailed Description
           An aspect of the invention provides a method for producing a syrup from a
   solution comprising carbohydrates, in which at least some of the carbohydrates are
   derived from oats.
 5         Solutions comprising oat-derived carbohydrates may be obtained by a number
   of means, for example by the processes set out in EP 1 363 504, EPI 706 001 and WO
   2016/124608, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
           For example, methods        for producing    solutions comprising oat-derived
   carbohydrates may provide that de-hulled oat grains are dry milled to form an
10 endosperm-starch rich flour fraction and a coarser endosperm-reduced fraction. In
   some instances, between 45%-55% of the milled grain is retained in the coarser
   endosperm reduced fraction.
           The endosperm-reduced fraction is dispersed in water and treated with a starch
   degrading a-amylase enzyme. The a-amylase may be a thermostable a-amylase, and
15 the enzymatic hydrolysis may be performed at temperatures of about 95 0 C or more. In
   some embodiments this may be followed by a second hydrolysis using an enzyme, or
   combination of enzymes, from the group amyloglucosidases and pullulanases. The
   second hydrolysis may be performed for up to 40 minutes and at a temperature of
   55 0 C or greater. One or more of the enzyme treatments are optionally performed in
20 combination with aqueous wet-milling.
           This is followed by enzyme inactivation by wet heat treatment, followed by
   the spontaneous or centrifugal separation of the hydrolysate mix into an aqueous top
   layer rich in p-glucans, and a lower layer containing proteins, oils and the insoluble
   fibrous portion of the grain. In some instances, the hydrolysate spontaneously
25 separates, or is optionally separated centrifugally, into 3 distinct layers, a top-layer
   which is rich in soluble dietary fibres, particularly p-glucans, but containing little oil
   (< 2.5%) or protein (< 7%), a middle aqueous layer, and a lower phase containing
   most of the protein, oil and insoluble fibrous material from the milled grain.
           The aqueous top layer can be removed via the use of a decanter, for example a
30 2-phase or 3-phase decanter or other suitable device, yielding a soluble fraction
   comprising p-glucans, carbohydrates (for example any of dextrins, maltodextrins and
   starch granules) and relatively low amounts of protein (<7%) and oils (< 2.5%). In

                                              5
   some instances, the separated top layer may comprise not more than 10 %, 7 % or 5%
   protein, and less than 2.5%, 2.0%, 1.5%, or 1.0% oil, on a dry solids basis.
           The p-glucan is then separated from other carbohydrates in the light fraction,
   to produce a solution comprising oat-derived carbohydrates. This may be done by
 5 means of centrifugation, for example by means of one or more disc centrifuges. Other
   means for separating the    p-glucan may be used, for example solvent extraction, and
   membrane filtration. This results in a solution comprising oat-derived carbohydrates;
   the carbohydrates may comprise any of: dextrins; maltodextrins; and starch granules
   derived from oats.
10         Solutions comprising carbohydrates in which all or substantially all of the
   carbohydrates are derived from oats may be used to produce syrups in accordance
   with the invention. Alternatively, a solution comprising oat-derived carbohydrates
   may be combined with carbohydrates from sources other than oats in order to provide
   a solution comprising carbohydrates in which at least some of the carbohydrates are
15 derived from oats, from which a syrup can be made.
           Suitable solutions may have a range of concentrations of carbohydrates.
   Optionally, the concentration of carbohydrates may be between 2% and 35% on a dry
   solids basis. Optionally, the concentration may be between 5% and 20%. Optionally,
   these concentrations     are for a combination of dextrins and maltodextrins, a
20 combination of maltodextrins and starch granules, or a combination of dextrins,
   maltodextrins and starch granules.
           In some embodiments, the solution comprising oat-derived carbohydrates may
   be mixed with flour. The flour can be derived from oats, or from one or more other
   grains, or can be a mixture of flours derived from oats and other grains. The addition
25 of flour can provide an increased yield of syrup, by increasing the amount of dry
   solids in solution. For example, following the addition of flour, the concentration of
   the combination of flour and carbohydrates in solution may be between 5% and 40%
   on a dry solids basis.
           Where flour is added to the solution comprising carbohydrates, this can result
30 in the production of a slurry. Consequently, when flour is added to a solution
   comprising carbohydrates, the combination may be passed through a homogeniser,
   such as a high shear mixer, to provide a solution.

                                               6
           The solution may then be passed to a reactor tank, to which at least one a
   amylase) is added. The enzymatic treatment of the solution is allowed to proceed for a
   period of time (the residency time), before the solution is heated to inactivate the
   enzyme.
 5         In some embodiments, more than one a-amylase may be used. For example, in
   some embodiments a bacterial a-amylase and a fungal a-amylase may be used. Where
   different enzymes are used, these may be added to the solution at the same time, or
   may be added sequentially. For example, where a bacterial c-amylase and a fungal a
   amylase are used, the bacterial a-amylase and the fungal a-amylase may be added
10 sequentially. In some embodiments, the bacterial ct-amylase will be added first. Where
   the enzymes are added sequentially, the residency times of the enzymes may overlap.
   Alternatively, the first enzyme may be inactivated prior to the addition of the second
   enzyme. By controlling the residency times of the enzymes it is possible to produce
   syrups with specific dextrose equivalents (DE), for example syrups with about 42DE
15 or 63DE. The residency times may be predetermined in order to produce a syrup with
   a desired DE. Alternatively, or in addition, the DE of the solution may be measured
   during the enzymatic treatment in order to prepare a syrup with the desired DE.
           Following completion of the enzymatic treatment and inactivation of the
   enzyme(s), the solution may be subjected to a physical separation process to remove
20 protein and lipids.
           The light phase produced following centrifugation may then be evaporated to
   make a syrup. The syrup may have up to 60% dry solids. The syrup may have up to
   70% dry solids. The syrup may have up to 80% dry solids. The combined
   concentration of lipid and protein in said syrup may be less than about 5% on a dry
25 solids basis, and optionally may be less than 3%. A particular syrup may have a DE of
   about 42. A particular syrup may have a DE of about 63.
           A process for producing such a syrup is set out in Figure 1. Flour and a
   carbohydrate solution in which at least some of the carbohydrates are derived from
   oats are combined in a high shear mixer at 2. This produces a new solution, which is
30 then passed, at 4, to a reaction tank, before a bacterial a-amylase is first added, at 6,
   followed by a fungal a-amylase, at 8. Heat is then applied to deactivate the enzymes,
   at 10. In figure 1, the heat is applied directly to the reaction vessel, but in other

                                                7
   alternatives the solution could be passed to a heat exchanger or other means for
   heating the solution sufficiently to inactivate the enzymes.
           The solution is then passed to a physical separation means, at 12, which
   enables the removal of protein and lipids, at 14, with the solution then being passed to
 5 an evaporator at 16. The solution is then evaporated to a degree sufficient to produce
   the desired syrup 18.
           Another aspect of the invention provides syrups produced by any of the herein
   described processes.
           Another aspect of the invention provides a syrup comprising oat-derived
10 carbohydrates and having a dextrose equivalent of about 20.
           Another aspect of the invention provides a syrup comprising oat-derived
   carbohydrates and having a dextrose equivalent of about 42.
           Another aspect of the invention provides a syrup comprising oat-derived
   carbohydrates and having a dextrose equivalent of about 63.
15         Syrups as disclosed herein may comprise a combined concentration of lipid
   and protein of less than 5% on a dry solids basis.
           Syrups as disclosed herein may be used in a variety of processes. In particular,
   such syrups may be used in combination with or as a replacement for refiner's syrup,
   maple syrup, corn syrup, inulin syrup, malt syrup, sorghum syrup, rye syrup, wheat
20 syrup, maize syrup, rice syrup (for example brown rice syrup), barley syrup and
   tapioca syrup. Syrups as disclosed herein may in particular be used as a replacement
   for corn syrup, brown rice syrup and tapioca syrup. For example, as seen in Figure 2,
   a 42DE syrup of the present invention has a similar viscosity to that of a 42DE corn
   syrup. The viscosity as depicted in Figure 2 was measured using a stress control
25 (DHR-3) rheometer from TA Instruments, equipped with a lower Peltier plate and an
   upper parallel plate (40 mm in diameter) with solvent trap (the upper parallel plate
   geometry was a leftover from the previous rheometers (AR-2000); in order to make it
   compatible with current rheometer, a drawdown rod and an adaptor were used). Both
   frequency sweep test (100~0. 1 Rad/s) and flow curves (shear rates from 100-0.1 s-1)
30 were carried out at 25'C, 50'C, 65'C, and 80'C. DI water was added into the solvent
   trap and a cover was used to prevent evaporation.

                                               8
           Syrups as disclosed herein may be used in a wide variety of applications. For
   example, the syrups may be used: as a binding syrup (for example, as an alternative or
   compliment to honey or agave (i.e. nectares); in cereal bars, baked bars, granola bars,
   and nut clusters; in cold formed protein bars; in snack toppings and cereal toppings; in
 5 yoghurts; in parfaits; in coating or extruded cereals, in bread and sweet baked goods,
   for example, as a sugar base for bread, scones, muffins, strudels, and cakes; in non
   dairy products such as oat milk, almond milk, rice milk, cashew milk, soy milk, hemp
   milk and coconut milk; as a sweetener in fermented nut-based drinks; in breakfast
   bars; in soft baked bars and biscuits; in aerated protein bars; in low moisture biscuits;
10 as a cookie or bakery filing, for example in sandwich cookies; in fruit snacks and fruit
   leathers; in sweetened sauces, for example ketchups and salad dressings; as speciality
   sweeteners for use as condiments (for example to put on pancakes or ice creams, or in
   hot drinks); in ice cream and frozen yoghurt; in frostings, icings and glazes; in
   milkshakes; in smoothies; in beers, whether as a fermentation source or as a
15 sweetening agent; in malted beverages; in pet foods and treats; in ingredient
   compositions such as spray dried flavours, dry blends and plated products; in
   confectionery applications; dietary supplement products, powders and chews; in
   gelcaps, tablets, and pharmaceutical capsules; and in fruit fillings, fruit preparations
   and flavour preparations.
20         In particular, syrups as disclosed herein may be used in one or more of the
   following products: ambient desserts; amino acid products; antioxidant products; baby
   cereals and biscuits; baby drinks; baby formula and baby milk; baby meals; baking
   ingredients and mixes; beer; botanical and herbal supplements; flavoured bottled
   water; unflavoured bottled water; bouillons, stocks, seasonings and herbs; bread and
25 bread products; breakfast cereals; cakes, pastries and sweet goods; carbonate
   products; cat food; cereal and energy bars; fresh and cream cheese; processed cheese;
   semi-hard and hard cheese; soft and semi-soft cheese; soft cheese desserts; chilled
   desserts; chocolate bars; chocolate blocks; unwrapped chocolate pieces; wrapped
   chocolate pieces; cider; coenzyme qO products; coffee; concentrates; cooking sauces;
30 cream and creamers; dairy alternative drinks; dietary fiber; dog food; drink
   concentrates and mixes; drinking yogurt and fermented beverages; egg and egg
   products; energy drinks; fats and spreads; finger foods and hors d'oeuvres; fish and

                                                9
   seafood; flavoured alcoholic beverages; frozen desserts; fruit; fruit and vegetable
   concentrates; fruit based snacks; fruit flavoured snacks; fruit pouches; glucosamine
   products; gum; gummies/jellies;        hair, skin and nails products; hard candy;
   homeopathic treatments; hot chocolate; single serve ice cream; take home ice cream;
 5 iced coffee; iced tea; juice and juice drinks; main dishes; mayonnaise, dressings and
   vinegar; meal kits; meal replacements; meat products; meat snacks; meat substitutes;
   melatonin products; milk and milk drinks; miscellaneous softgels, capsules, tablets
   and powders, for example for use in pharmaceutical or dietary products; oils; oral care
   products; chocolate confectionery; confectionery; dairy products; meal components;
10 pet food; soft drinks; pickled condiments and chutneys; pizza; plain pasta and
   noodles; plant based waters; popcorn; potato products; poultry; prepared pasta and
   noodles; prepared salads; probiotics; ready meals; rice; sandwiches;             savory
   biscuits/crackers; savory/salty snacks; savoury spreads; snack nuts and seeds; soup;
   speciality men's products; speciality women's products; spirits and liqueurs; spoonable
15 dairy yogurt; spoonable non-dairy yogurt; sports bars; sports drinks RTD; sports
   powders; sports protein based RTD; sports supplements; sugar and sweeteners; sugar
   confectionery; sweet biscuits and cookies; sweet spreads; table sauces; tea; toffee and
   fudge; toppings; vegetables; vitamins and minerals; weight gain products; weight loss
   products; and wine.
20         The syrups disclosed herein may in particular be useful as a binding agent
   and/or a sweetening agent in cereals and cereal bars. The syrups disclosed herein may
   be used to replace the syrups commonly used in such products, such as corn syrup. In
   particular, the syrups of the present invention may reduce the need for a plasticizer to
   be added to soft bars such as chewy cereal bars, when compared with a corn syrup. It
25 has been found that when making soft cereal bars using corn syrup but omitting the
   plasticizer which would normally be used, the cereal bars is unacceptably hard; in
   contrast, a cereal bar made to the same recipe but in which the corn syrup is replaced
   by a 42DE syrup of the present invention, produces a cereal bar which is acceptably
   soft and chewy.
30         The above embodiments are to be understood as illustrative examples of the
   invention. Further embodiments of the invention are envisaged. For example, syrups
   comprising carbohydrates comprising a combined concentration of lipid and protein

                                              10
  of less than 5% on a dry solids basis. It is to be understood that any feature described
  in relation to any one embodiment may be used alone, or in combination with other
  features described, and may also be used in combination with one or more features of
  any other of the embodiments, or any combination of any other of the embodiments.
5 Furthermore, equivalents and modifications not described above may also be
  employed without departing from the scope of the invention, which is defined in the
  accompanying claims.

                                       11
                                    CLAIMS
1. A method of producing a syrup comprising:
        a) treating a solution comprising carbohydrates with at least one a
           amylase;
        b) heating said solution to inactivate said a-amylase;
        c) physical separation so as to remove at least some protein and lipids
           from said solution; and
        d) subjecting said solution to evaporation.
   wherein said solution comprising carbohydrates comprises carbohydrates
   derived from oats.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said at least one a-amylase
   comprises a bacterial a-amylase.
3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said at least one a
   amylase comprises a fungal a-amylase.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one a-amylase
   comprises a bacterial a-amylase and a fungal a-amylase, and said bacterial a
   amylase and fungal a-amylase are added sequentially to said solution
   comprising carbohydrates.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said solution comprising carbohydrates is
   treated with a bacterial a-amylase for a first pre-determined period of time,
   and is treated with a fungal a-amylase for a second pre-determined period of
   time.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said first and second pre-determined periods
   of time overlap.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein during said treatment with said at
   least one a-amylase the dextrose equivalent of said solution is measured.
8. The method according to any of claims 1-7, wherein said solution comprising
   carbohydrates further comprises flour.

                                        12
9.  The method according to claim 8, wherein said flour comprises flour derived
    from oats.
10. The method according to 8 or claim 9, wherein prior to being treated with said
    at least one a-amylase, said solution comprising carbohydrates and flour is
    passed through a high shear mixer.
11. The method according to any of claims 8, 9 or 10, wherein after said heating of
    said solution, and prior to said physical separation, at least some protein is
    removed from said solution.
12. A syrup produced by a method of any of claims 1-11.
13. A syrup according to claim 12, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 20.
14. A syrup according to claim 12, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 42.
15. A syrup according to claim 12, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 63.
16. A syrup     according   to   any of claims     12-15,   wherein  the combined
    concentration of lipid and protein in said syrup is less than 5% on a dry solids
    basis.
17. A syrup comprising        oat-derived  carbohydrates    wherein  the combined
    concentration of lipid and protein in said syrup is less than 5% on a dry solids
    basis.
18. A syrup according to claim 17, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 20.
19. A syrup according to claim 17, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 42.
20. A syrup according to claim 17, wherein said syrup has a dextrose equivalent of
    about 63.
21. A product comprising the syrup of any of claims 12-20, wherein said product
    is selected from the group comprising: ambient desserts; amino acid products;
    antioxidant products; baby cereals and biscuits; baby drinks; baby formula and
    baby milk; baby meals; baking ingredients and mixes; beer; botanical and
    herbal supplements; flavoured bottled water; unflavoured bottled water;

                                       13
    bouillons, stocks, seasonings and herbs; bread and bread products; breakfast
    cereals; cakes, pastries and sweet goods; carbonate products; cat food; cereal
    and energy bars; fresh cheese; cream cheese; processed cheese; semi-hard and
    hard cheese; soft and semi-soft cheese; soft cheese desserts; chilled desserts;
    chocolate bars; chocolate blocks; chocolate pieces; cider; coenzyme qlO
    products; coffee; concentrates; cooking sauces; cream and creamers; dairy
    alternative drinks; dietary fiber; dietary supplements; dog food; drink
    concentrates and mixes; drinking yogurt; fermented beverages; egg and egg
    products; energy drinks; fats and spreads; finger foods; hors d'oeuvres; fish
    and seafood; flavoured alcoholic beverages; frozen desserts; fruit; fruit and
    vegetable concentrates; fruit-based snacks; fruit flavoured snacks; fruit
    pouches; glucosamine products; gum; gummies/jellies; hair, skin and nails
    products; hard candy; homeopathic treatments; hot chocolate; ice cream; iced
    coffee; iced tea; juice and juice drinks; main dishes; mayonnaise, dressings
    and vinegar; meal kits; meal replacements; meat products; meat snacks; meat
    substitutes; melatonin products; milk and milk drinks; softgel capsules, tablets;
    oils; oral care products; chocolate confectionery;        confectionery;   dairy
    products; meal components; pet food; soft drinks; pickled condiments;
    chutney; pizza; plain pasta and noodles; plant based waters; popcorn; potato
    products; poultry; prepared pasta and noodles; prepared salads; probiotics;
    ready meals; rice; sandwiches; savory biscuits/crackers; savory/salty snacks;
    savoury spreads; snack nuts and seeds; soup; spirits and liqueurs; spoonable
    dairy yogurt; spoonable non-dairy yogurt; sports bars; sports drinks RTD;
    sports powders; sports protein based RTD; sports supplements; sugar and
    sweeteners; sugar confectionery; sweet biscuits/cookies; sweet spreads; table
    sauces; tea; toffee and fudge; toppings; vegetables; vitamins/minerals; weight
    gain products; weight loss products; and wine.
22. A product according to claim 21, wherein said product does not comprise an
    additional plasticizer.
23. A product according to claim 22, wherein said product is a cereal bar.



