   Abstract
   A method of gaming comprising: designating a symbol
   display position of a plurality of symbol display
 5 positions as having a bonus symbol set applying to it for
   a game round; selecting and displaying a symbol from the
   bonus symbol set at the designated symbol display
   position; selecting symbols for display at the other
   symbol display positions from a base symbol set
10 independently of the selection of the symbol from the
   bonus symbol set; and evaluating the symbols displayed at
   the plurality of symbol display positions to determine
   whether to make an award for the game round.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

   Title
   A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAME CONTROLLER, AND A GAMING SYSTEM
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2013213732,
10 which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2010241323.   The disclosures of each of
   these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
15
   The invention relates to a method of gaming, a game
   controller, and a gaming system.
   Background
20
   In some existing gaming system, if a trigger condition is
   met, a wild symbol which has occurred in one game persists
   for a subsequent game.
25 While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment,
   a need exists for alternative gaming systems.
   Summary of the Invention
30 In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of
   gaming comprising:
         designating a symbol display position of a plurality
   of symbol display positions as having a bonus symbol set
   applying to it for a game round;
35       selecting and displaying a symbol from the bonus
   symbol set at the designated symbol display position;
         selecting symbols for display at the other symbol
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                - 2
    display positions from a base symbol set independently of
    the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
          evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
    symbol display positions to determine whether to make an
  5 award for the game round.
    In an embodiment, the plurality of symbol display
    positions are arranged in a plurality of columns, each
    column comprising a plurality of symbol display positions.
10
    In an embodiment, the base symbol set comprises a
    plurality of symbol subsets corresponding to respective
    ones of the plurality of columns such that each designated
    symbol display position corresponds to one of the symbol
15  sets.
    In an embodiment, the method comprises designating the
    symbol position in response to a trigger condition being
    met as part of a prior game round.
20
    In an embodiment, the prior game round comprises:
          selecting symbols for display at each of the
    plurality of symbol display positions from the base symbol
    set; and
25        evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
    symbol display positions to determine whether the trigger
    condition is met.
    In an embodiment, the trigger condition is that the
30  displayed symbols include a designated minimum number of
    scatter symbols.
    In an embodiment, the position of the designated symbol
    display position is predetermined.
35
    In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting the
    position of the designated symbol display position at
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              -3
   random.
   In an embodiment, the game round is one of a series of
   game rounds in which a symbol is selected for display at a
 5 designated symbol display position.
   In an embodiment, the designated symbol display position
   is different in different ones of the game rounds.
10 In an embodiment, the method comprises moving the
   designated symbol display position between symbol display
   positions in accordance with a designated pattern of
   movement.
15 In an embodiment, the method comprises moving the
   designated symbol display position between symbol display
   positions in accordance with a random displacement
   relative to a prior designated symbol display position.
20 In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting the
   designated symbol display position at random for at least
   one subsequent game round of the series of game rounds.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises ending the series
25 of game rounds when an end condition is met.
   In an embodiment, the end condition is based on an
   evaluation of the selected symbols of a game round.
30 In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting symbols
   for a plurality of designated symbol positions at which.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting symbols
   for each designated symbol position independently from the
35 bonus symbol set.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting symbols
                                              7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 4
   for each designated symbol position independently from
   different bonus symbol sets.
   In an embodiment, there is initially a single designated
 5 symbol position and the method comprises adding one or
   more additional designated symbol positions in response to
   a position adding condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the position adding condition is that a
10 designated outcome has occurred in a prior game round.
   In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set comprises at least
   one function symbol.
15 In an embodiment, the function symbol is a wild symbol
   which substitutes for other symbols.
   In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set includes at least
   one symbol which can be used to form the highest available
20 winning symbol combination.
   In an embodiment, each of the symbol display positions is
   associated with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
25 In an embodiment, there are five spinning reels.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a game
   controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   comprising:
30      a symbol position designator arranged to designate a
   symbol display position of a plurality of symbol display
   positions as having a bonus symbol set applying to it for
   a game round;
        a bonus symbol selector arranged to select a symbol
35 from the bonus symbol set for display at the designated
   symbol display position;
        a base symbol selector arranged to select symbols for
                                              7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                   - 5
   display at the other symbol display positions from a base
   symbol set independently of the selection of the symbol
   from the bonus symbol set; and
        an outcome evaluator arranged to evaluate the symbols
 5 displayed at the plurality of symbol display positions to
   determine whether to make an award for the game round.
   In an embodiment, the symbol display positions are
   arranged in a plurality of columns, each column comprising
10 a plurality of symbol display positions and the base
   symbol set comprises a plurality of symbol subsets
   corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of columns
   such that each designated symbol display position
   corresponds to one of the symbol sets.
15
   In an embodiment, the symbol position designator
   designates the symbol position in response to a trigger
   condition being met as part of a prior game round.
20 In an embodiment, the prior game round comprises:
         the base symbol selector selecting symbols for
   display at  each of the plurality   of symbol display
   positions from the base symbol set;    and
         the outcome evaluator evaluating the symbols
25 displayed at the plurality of symbol display positions to
   determine whether the trigger condition is met.
   In an embodiment, the trigger condition is that the
   displayed symbols include a designated minimum number of
30 scatter symbols.
   In an embodiment, the position of the designated symbol
   display position is predetermined.
35 In an embodiment, the symbol position designator
   comprising selecting the position of the designated symbol
   display position at random.
                                                 7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 6
    In an embodiment, the game round is one of a series of
    game rounds conducted by the game controller in which a
    symbol is selected by the bonus symbol selector from a
  5 bonus symbols set for display at a designated symbol
    display position.
    In an embodiment, the symbol position designator
    designates a different symbol display position in
10  different ones of the game rounds.
    In an embodiment, the symbol position designator moves the
    designated symbol display position between symbol display
    positions in accordance with a designated pattern of
15  movement.
    In an embodiment, the symbol position designator moves the
    designated symbol display position between symbol display
    positions in accordance with a random displacement
20  relative to a prior designated symbol display position.
    In an embodiment, the symbol position designator selects
    the designated symbol display position at random for at
    least one subsequent game round of the series of game
25  rounds.
    In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
    to end the series of game rounds upon an end condition
    being met.
30
    In an embodiment, the end condition is based on an
    evaluation of the selected symbols of a game round.
    In an embodiment, the bonus symbol selector is arranged to
35  select symbols for a plurality of designated symbol
    positions.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

    In an embodiment, the bonus symbol selector selects
    symbols for each designated symbol position independently
    from the bonus symbol set.
  5 In an embodiment, there are a plurality of symbol sets and
    the bonus symbol selector selects symbols for each
    designated symbol position independently from different
    ones of the plurality bonus symbol sets.
10  In an embodiment, there is initially a single designated
    symbol position and the game controller adds one or more
    additional designated symbol positions in response to a
    position adding condition being met.
15  In an embodiment, the position adding condition is that a
    designated outcome has occurred in a prior game round.
    In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set comprises at least
    one function symbol.
20
    In an embodiment, the function symbol is a wild symbol
    which substitutes for other symbols.
    In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set includes at least
25  one symbol which can be used to form the highest available
    winning symbol combination.
    In an embodiment, each of the symbol display positions is
    associated with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
30
    In an embodiment, the game controller is implemented at
    least in part by a processor executing program code stored
    in a memory.
35  In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
    comprising:
         a display for displaying play of a game;
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 8
         a game play mechanism for initiating play of the
   game; and
         a game controller operably connected to the display
   and the game play mechanism, and arranged to:
 5            designate a symbol display position of a
   plurality of symbol display positions as having a bonus
   symbol set applying to it for a game round;
              select and display a symbol from the bonus symbol
   set at the designated symbol display position;
10            select symbols for display at the other symbol
   display positions from a base symbol set independently of
   the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
              evaluate the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of symbol display positions to determine whether to make
15 an award for the game round.
   In an embodiment, the plurality of symbol display
   positions are arranged in a plurality of columns on the
   display, each column comprising a plurality of symbol
20 display positions.
   In an embodiment, the base symbol set comprises a
   plurality of symbol subsets corresponding to respective
   ones of the plurality of columns such that each designated
25 symbol display position corresponds to one of the symbol
   sets.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   designate the symbol position in response to a trigger
30 condition being met as part of a prior game round.
   In an embodiment, the prior game round comprises the game
   controller:
         selecting symbols for display at each of the
35 plurality of symbol display positions from the base symbol
   set; and
         evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 9
   symbol display positions to determine whether the trigger
   condition is met.
   In an embodiment, the trigger condition is that the
 5 displayed symbols include a designated minimum number of
   scatter symbols.
   In an embodiment, the position of the designated symbol
   display position is predetermined.
10
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   select the position of the designated symbol display
   position at random.
15 In an embodiment, the game round is one of a series of
   game rounds in which a symbol is selected by the game
   controller for display at a designated symbol display
   position.
20 In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   select different designated symbol display positions in
   different ones of the game rounds.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to move
25 the designated symbol display position between symbol
   display positions in accordance with a designated pattern
   of movement.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to move
30 the designated symbol display position between symbol
   display positions in accordance with a random displacement
   relative to a prior designated symbol display position.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
35 select the designated symbol display position at random
   for at least one subsequent game round of the series of
   game rounds.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 10
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to end
   the series of game rounds when an end condition is met.
 5 In an embodiment, the end condition is based on an
   evaluation by the game controller of the selected symbols
   of a game round.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
lo select symbols for a plurality of designated symbol
   positions.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   select symbols for each designated symbol position
15 independently from the bonus symbol set.
   In an embodiment, there are a plurality of symbol sets and
   the game controller is arranged to select symbols for each
   designated symbol position independently from different
20 ones of the plurality bonus symbol sets.
   In an embodiment, there is initially a single designated
   symbol position and the game controller adds one or more
   additional designated symbol positions in response to a
25 position adding condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the position adding condition is that a
   designated outcome has occurred in a prior game round.
30 In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set comprises at least
   one function symbol.
   In an embodiment, the function symbol is a wild symbol
   which substitutes for other symbols.
35
   In an embodiment, the bonus symbol set includes at least
   one symbol which can be used to form the highest available
                                              7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 11
   winning symbol combination.
   In an embodiment, each of the symbol display positions is
   associated with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
 5
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides an electronic
   gaming machine comprising:
         a cabinet;
         a display mounted to the cabinet
10       a game play mechanism comprising one or more input
   devices for initiating play of the game mounted to the
   cabinet; and
         a game controller disposed within the cabinet, the
   game controller operably connected to the display and the
15 game play mechanism, the game controller comprising a
   processor which executes program code stored in a memory
   such that the game controller:
              designates a symbol display position of a
   plurality of symbol display positions as having a bonus
20 symbol set applying to it for a game round;
              selects and displays a symbol from the bonus
   symbol set at the designated symbol display position;
              selects symbols for display at the other symbol
   display positions from a base symbol set independently of
25 the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
              evaluates the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of symbol display positions to determine whether to make
   an award for the game round.
30 In a fifth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed implements the above method.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a tangible
   computer readable medium comprising the above program
35 code.
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides a data signal
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 12
   comprising the above program code.
   Brief Description of Drawings
 5 An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
10 gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
15 Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
   of a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
20
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
   system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
25
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment;
   Figure 8 is an example of main game symbol data; and
30 Figures 9A and 9B are exemplary displays of one example.
   Detailed Description
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
35 having a game controller arranged to implement a game with
   a sticky bonus symbol set, such as a bonus reel.           In the
   embodiment, when a bonus reel is activated it persists for
                                              7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 13
   at least one game round.   The bonus reel, replaces a
   designated one of the symbol display positions of a reel.
   Depending on the embodiment, the bonus reel may move or
   stay in the same designated position.   The bonus reel
 5 involves a selection from a bonus symbol set.        The symbol
   set typically comprises high value symbols for the game,
   for example a function symbols such as a wild symbol and
   picture symbol which participates in high value awards.
   In some embodiments, there may be more than one bonus reel
10 may be activated.   Advantages relative to known games
   where a wild symbol persists include that a benefit is
   provided to the player who receives the wild reel without
   the exact nature of the benefit being known and more
   control of the return to player by virtue of the ability
15 to have more than just a wild symbol on the bonus reel.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the bonus
   reel described in further detail below is the same as a
   conventional reel in that it can be spun and the symbols
20 are selected based on a stopping position of the bonus
   reel  (from a bonus symbol set which has a defined
   sequence).   The difference is that each bonus reel
   occupies a single symbol display position.
25 General construction of gaming system
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms.
   In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
30 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
35 and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 14
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
 5 executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
10 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.  For example,
15 the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
20
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several
   core components.  At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1.  The player interface is
25 arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions to play the game and observe the game
   outcomes.
30
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54, a game play
35 mechanism 56 including one or more input devices that
   enable a player to input game play instructions         (e.g. to
   place a wager), and one or more speakers 58.
                                               76729681 (GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 15
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
 5 with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display.   Typically, the game play rules are stored as
   program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
10 accordance with game play rules and may include:         a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
15 A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.   The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
20 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.   Other credit input
25 mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   Other gaming machines may configure for ticket in
   such that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
   having a value and crediting the player based on the face
30 value of the ticker.   A player marketing module (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for
   the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   example as part of a loyalty program.   The player tracking
   device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
35 other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device.   In some embodiments, the player marketing
   module may provide an additional credit mechanism, either
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 16
   by transferring credits to the gaming machine from credits
   stored on the player tracking device or by transferring
   credits from a player account in data communication with
   the player marketing module.
 5
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.     Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
10 panel 29 of the console 12.   A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
15 display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit.  The top box 26 may also include a display,
   for example a video display unit, which may be of the same
20 type as the display 14, or of a different type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
25
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
30 communication with the processor 102.   Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
   volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103.
35
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 17
   player credit, an input/output (I/0)   interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
 5 own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.        Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
10 random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
15 screen and/or buttons 107   (which provide a game play
   mechanism),  a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.    Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
20 may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation.   For example, while buttons or touch
   screens are typically used in gaming machines to allow a
   player to place a wager and initiate a play of a game any
   input device that enables the player to input game play
25 instructions may be used.    For example, in some gaming
   machines a mechanical handle is used to initiate a play of
   the game.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
30 communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the bonus
35 controller, central controller, server or database.                  In
   embodiments employing a player marketing module,
   communications over a network may be via player marketing
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 18
   module - i.e. the player marketing module may be in data
   communication with one or more of the above devices and
   communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
 5 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.            The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.            The
10 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.  The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
15 or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
20 provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
25 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
30 simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
35 One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 19
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
 5
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and
10 the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller.   A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.   Typically, if the
15 gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.   A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
20 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.   With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller. The
25 gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
30 that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components.   Other client/server
   configurations are possible, and further details of a
   client/server architecture can be found in WO 2006/052213
   and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which are
35 incorporated herein by reference.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                - 20
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.     An administrator terminal
 5 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
10 network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
15 server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.     For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.     For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
20 Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.    Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
25 terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
   The player operates the game play mechanism 56 to specify
30 the win entitlement which will be evaluated for this play
   of the game and initiates a play of the game. Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that a player's win
   entitlement will vary from game to game dependent on
   player selections.    In most spinning reel games, it is
35 typical for the player's entitlement to be affected by the
   amount they wager and selections they make (i.e. the
   nature of the wager).    For example, a player's        win
                                                    7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 21
   entitlement may be based on how many lines they play in
   each game - e.g. a minimum of one line up to the maximum
   number of lines allowed by the game   (noting that not all
   permutations of win lines may be available for selection).
 5 Such win lines are typically formed by a combination of
   symbol display positions, one from each reel, the symbol
   display positions being located relative to one another
   such that they form a line.
10 In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
   strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   players selection of pay lines and are an inherent part of
   the win entitlement.
15
   Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement by
   selecting a number of reels to play.    Such games are
   marketed under the trade name "Reel Power" by Aristocrat
20 Leisure Industries Pty Ltd.    The selection of the reel
   means that each displayed symbol of the reel can be
   substituted for a symbol at one or more designated display
   positions.   In other words, all symbols displayed at
   symbol display positions corresponding to a selected reel
25 can be used to form symbol combinations with symbols
   displayed at a designated, symbol display positions of the
   other reels.   For example, if there are five reels and
   three symbol display positions for each reel such that the
   symbol display positions comprise three rows of five
30 symbol display positions, the symbols displayed in the
   centre row are used for non-selected reels.      As a result,
   the total number of ways to win is determined by
   multiplying the number of active display positions of each
   reels, the active display positions being all display
35 positions of each selected reel and the designated display
   position of the non-selected reels.    As a result for five
   reels and fifteen display positions there are 243 ways to
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 22
   win.
   In Figure 6, the processor 62 of game controller 60 is
   shown implementing a number of modules based on program
 5 code and data stored in memory 64.   Persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that various of the modules could be
   implemented in some other way, for example by a dedicated
   circuit.
10 These modules include the outcome generator 622 which
   operates in response to the player's operation of game
   play mechanism 56 to place a wager and initiate a play of
   the game and generates a game outcome which will then be
   evaluated by award evaluator 623.   In the base game, the
15 first part of forming the game outcome is for base symbol
   selector 622B of symbol selector 622A to select symbols
   from a set of symbols specified by base symbol set data
   641A using random number generator 621.   The selected
   symbols are advised to the display controller 624 which
20 causes them to be displayed on display 54 at a set of
   display positions.  The base game is a part of the game
   which is carried out each time the player makes a wager,
   typically irrespective of the wager, whereas other parts
   of the game will only be carried out occasionally for
25 example if a condition is met such as a trigger occurring
   or if an ante bet is placed (depending on the specific
   embodiment).
   As illustrated by Figure 8, one example of selecting
30 symbols is for the base symbol selector 622B to select
   symbols for display from a   plurality of symbol subsets
   801,802,803,804,805 of the base symbol data 641A, each
   symbols corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of
   spinning reels.  The symbol subsets 801,802,803,804,805
35 can specify a sequence of symbols for each reel such that
   the base symbol selector 622B can select all of the
   symbols for display at symbol display positions which may
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 23
   be used in evaluation of the game outcome by selecting a
   stopping position in the sequence.   In one example, three
   symbols of each of the five reels 801,802,803,804,805 may
   be displayed such that symbols are displayed at fifteen
 5 display positions on display 54.   Alternatively, it is
   known to use a probability table stored in memory 64 to
   vary the odds of a particular stop position being
   selected.  Other techniques can be used to control the
   odds of particular outcomes occurring to thereby control
10 the return to player of the game.
   Once the symbols have been selected, outcome evaluator 624
   evaluates the symbols in light of the win entitlement and
   the prize table 643 to determine whether to make an award.
15 The outcome evaluator also has a trigger monitor 624 which
   determines whether a trigger condition 642 has been met,
   for example three or more scattered symbols being selected
   for display in the symbol display positions.
20 In other embodiments, the trigger event may be, an
   alternative symbol combination in the game, random,
   occurrence of a specific symbol in the game, purchased, be
   caused by another connected system, based on turnover etc.
25 Once the trigger monitor 624A determines that the trigger
   condition 642 has been met, it activates the feature game
   controller 625.  In the embodiment, the bonus reel 641D is
   only added during a feature game comprised of a plurality
   of free game rounds.  Accordingly, the functions of the
30 feature game controller 625 are to ensure that the
   requisite number of free game rounds are carried out and
   also to control the position of the bonus reel specified
   by bonus symbol set data 641B in each game round.               In one
   example, the symbol position designator 625A of the
35 feature game controller 625 controls the position to be
   the same for each game round.   In other examples, the
   bonus reel may move randomly, in accordance with the
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                - 24
    designated pattern, in accordance with random displacement
    from the current position etc.   In other embodiments, if a
    further trigger condition is determined by the trigger
    monitor 624A in any one of the game rounds, a further
  5 bonus reel may be added.   The further bonus reel may be
    the same or different to the first bonus reel.         The bonus
    reel symbols may be selected independently whether from
    the same reel or different reels or, in alternative
    embodiments, the bonus symbols selection may be
10  interrelated.
    In one embodiment, the symbol position designator 625A
    selects the position based on the bonus symbol position
    data 644.
15
    Accordingly, it will be appreciated that in this example,
    the initial position of the bonus reel is prescribed, for
    example the centre position on the centre reel
    corresponding to the symbol data.   In another embodiment,
20  the initial position may some how be related to the
    trigger condition, for example if the trigger is caused by
    a specific symbol, the bonus reel it may replace that
    symbol.   Bonus symbol position data 644 may also specify
    the manner in which the bonus reel is to move.
25
    In each free game, the bonus symbol selector 622C selects
    the symbol from the bonus symbol set data 641 to appear at
    the designated symbol display position as designated by
    the symbol position as designated by the symbol position
30  designator 625A.   The other symbol display positions are
    populated by the base symbol selector 622B selecting
    symbols from the base symbol set data 641A.     In each free
    game round, the outcome evaluator 622 evaluates the
    displayed symbols and determines whether to make an award.
35  The awards are accumulated on the win meter of meter data
    645 until the end of the free game series.   At the end of
    the free game series, the accumulated awards on the win
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 25
   meter are transferred to the credit meter.    The end of the
   game may be defined by when the player chooses to cash out
   or chooses to play another game.   In some embodiments, the
   player may have the opportunity to gamble the amount which
 5 has been awarded.
   Accordingly, it will appreciated that the method involves
   receiving 705 a wager and conducting 710 a base game.
   When the base game is conducted the outcome evaluator
10 monitors for whether there is a trigger 715 and if there
   is no trigger the main base game is concluded as described
   above.  If there is a trigger, a free game feature is
   started 720 and a count of the number of free games N is
   set, for example at 10 games for 3 scatter symbols and 15
15 games for 4 scatter symbols.
   The position for the bonus symbol is designated 730 and
   the method then involves selecting the bonus symbol for
   the bonus symbol positions 735 while selecting base
20 symbols for other symbol positions 740.   In one example,
   this is achieved by showing five reels as spinning with an
   overlay of the bonus symbol reel spinning within a symbol
   position of one of the reels.   Once each of the reels has
   been stopped (including the bonus reel) the outcome
25 evaluator evaluates 745 the displayed symbols.         The count
   of free game rounds is then decreased 750  (this could
   occur at other points in the procedure).   It is then
   determined 755 whether the count has reached zero            (i.e.
   the end of the free games) if so the game controller
30 reverts to waiting to receive a further wager 705 or a
   cash out signed.  If the counter has not reached zero the
   method also involves determining whether a further trigger
   760 occurs within the symbols and adding a symbol display
   position to be designated 765 upon a further trigger
35 occurring.  The next stage in the process 700 is
   designating 730 a position for the bonus symbol depending
   on the game rules such that a position will be designated
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 26
   for each bonus reel.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that there may
   be a number of variations for example the position the
 5 bonus reel may be dependent on something occurring in a
   game outcome, alternatively, the feature game may be
   started before the bonus reel appears.   For example, a
   bonus reel may be added each time a "bonus" symbol or the
   like is displayed.
10
   The symbols contained in the bonus reel may be derived
   from the existing symbols of the game or be symbols which
   are specific to the bonus reel or a mixture of both.                   The
   symbols may enhance particular outcomes or increase the
15 possibility of outcomes occurring.   Various other
   variations will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
   Example
20 In the example,  a Reel Power game (of the general type
   described above) is provided where the rules of the game
   state that any three scatter symbols would trigger 10 free
   games with a bonus reel initially placed on the centre
   position of the third reel of 5 reels.   This configuration
25 is shown in Figure 9A where a first game display 901 is
   shown with three symbols from each reel with a wild symbol
   902 having been selected for the bonus reel.       In the
   example, a bonus reel is indicated by the shaded
   background of a symbol display position.   The bonus reel
30 will persist in its position for each game round until the
   free games are exhausted.   During the free rounds if the
   "bonus" symbol 903 is spun up as shown in Figure 9A, a
   further bonus reel is added in the subsequent game round.
   Accordingly, Figure 9A shows the situation at the end of
35 the first game round where the bonus reel located in the
   centred position of reel 3, 902, has been spun and wild
   symbol has been selected.   This bonus reel will persist
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 27
    for the entirety of the free game series.   A bonus symbol
    has been spun up at the bottom position of the fourth reel
    903.  Referring now to Figure 9B, a further bonus reel 913
    has been added at the bottom of the fourth reel.             Figure
  5 9B also shows that a wild symbol has been selected at the
    bottom of the fourth reel at a position corresponding to
    where the bonus symbol was spun up on the previous game
    round shown in Figure 9A.   Further on the sticky bonus
    reel 912 shown previously in Figure 1, a different symbol
10  has been spun up in the form of the symbol "PIC 1".
    As the game is a reel power game and the player is playing
    all reels, 5 of a kind PIC 1 will be paid for the
    arrangement shown in Figure 9A whereas in Figure 9B a four
15  of a kind ace (A) win will be paid because there are aces
    on each of the first three reels and a wild symbol on the
    fourth reel.
    A game round involves at least one of the reels being
20  "spun" - e.g. new symbols of the reels are selected for
    display at the display positions and the reel is either
    physically or virtually spun to a stop.   Persons skilled
    in the art will appreciate that there may be more than one
    game round in a play of a gaming machine such as is the
25  case when a series of free spins is awarded.       The outcome
    of a game round may be no win, a win  (for example from a
    winning combination of symbols),  a contribution towards a
    win accrued over a plurality of game rounds, a trigger
    condition occurring etc.
30
    In some embodiments, an eligibility criteria may be
    applied in order for a player to be eligible for the
    feature game, for example that the player has made a
    certain sized wager, made an ante bet, selected all win
35  lines, played sufficient games, or the player is a member
    of a loyalty program.
                                                 7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                - 28
    Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
    above description of the gaming system.    Persons skilled
    in the art will also appreciate that the method could be
    embodied in program code.    The program code could be
  5 supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
    readable storage medium, such as a disc or a memory (for
    example, that could replace part of memory 103) or as a
    data signal  (for example, by transmitting it from a
    server).
10
    It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
    invention that many modifications may be made without
    departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
    particular it will be apparent that certain features of
15  embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
    further embodiments.
    It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
    to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
20  that the prior art forms a part of the common general
    knowledge in the art in any country.
    In the claims which follow and in the preceding
    description of the invention, except where the context
25  requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
    implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
    "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
    i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
    not to preclude the presence or addition of further
30  features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                 7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 29
   CLAIMS:
   1.   A method of gaming comprising:
 5      designating a symbol display position of a plurality
   of symbol display positions as having a bonus symbol set
   applying to it for a game round;
        selecting and displaying a symbol from the bonus
   symbol set at the designated symbol display position;
1o      selecting symbols for display at the other symbol
   display positions from a base symbol set independently of
   the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
        evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
   symbol display positions to determine whether to make an
15 award for the game round.
   2.   A method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of symbol
   display positions are arranged in a plurality of columns,
   each column comprising a plurality of symbol display
20 positions.
   3.   A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the base
   symbol set comprises a plurality of symbol subsets
   corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of
25 columns such that each designated symbol display position
   corresponds to one of the symbol sets.
   4.   A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   comprising designating the symbol position in response to
30 a trigger condition being met as part of a prior game
   round.
   5.   A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the prior
   game round comprises:
35      selecting symbols for display at each of the
   plurality of symbol display positions from the base symbol
   set; and
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 30
         evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
    symbol display positions to determine whether the trigger
    condition is met.
  5 6.   A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the trigger
    condition is that the displayed symbols include a
    designated minimum number of scatter symbols.
    7.   A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6,
10  wherein the position of the designated symbol display
    position is predetermined.
    8.   A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6,
    comprising selecting the position of the designated symbol
15  display position at random.
    9.   A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8,
    wherein the game round is one of a series of game rounds
    in which a symbol is selected for display at a designated
20  symbol display position.
    10.  A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the
    designated symbol display position is different in
    different ones of the game rounds.
25
    11.  A method as claimed in claim 10, comprising moving
    the designated symbol display position between symbol
    display positions in accordance with a designated pattern
    of movement.
30
    12.  A method as claimed in claim 10, comprising moving
    the designated symbol display position between symbol
    display positions in accordance with a random displacement
    relative to a prior designated symbol display position.
35
    13.  A method as claimed in claim 10, comprising selecting
    the designated symbol display position at random for at
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 31
   least one subsequent game round of the series of game
   rounds.
   14.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13,
 5 comprising ending the series of game rounds when an end
   condition is met.
   15.  A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the end
   condition is based on an evaluation of the selected
10 symbols of a game round.
   16.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15,
   comprising selecting symbols for a plurality of designated
   symbol positions.
15
   17.  A method as claimed in claim 16, comprising selecting
   symbols for each designated symbol position independently
   from the bonus symbol set.
20 18.  A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein there are a
   plurality of symbol sets and the method comprises
   selecting symbols for each designated symbol position
   independently from different ones of the plurality bonus
   symbol sets.
25
   19.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18,
   wherein there is initially a single designated symbol
   position and the method comprises adding one or more
   additional designated symbol positions in response to a
30 position adding condition being met.
   20.  A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the position
   adding condition is that a designated outcome has occurred
   in a prior game round.
35
   21.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20,
   wherein the bonus symbol set comprises at least one
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 32
   function symbol.
   22.  A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the function
   symbol is a wild symbol which substitutes for other
 5 symbols.
   23.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22,
   wherein the bonus symbol set includes at least one symbol
   which can be used to form the highest available winning
10 symbol combination.
   24.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 23,
   wherein each of the symbol display positions is associated
   with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
15
   25.       A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller comprising:
        a symbol position designator arranged to designate a
   symbol display position of a plurality of symbol display
20 positions as having a bonus symbol set applying to it for
   a game round;
        a bonus symbol selector arranged to select a symbol
   from the bonus symbol set for display at the designated
   symbol display position;
25      a base symbol selector arranged to select symbols for
   display at the other symbol display positions from a base
   symbol set independently of the selection of the symbol
   from the bonus symbol set; and
        an outcome evaluator arranged to evaluate the symbols
30 displayed at the plurality of symbol display positions to
   determine whether to make an award for the game round.
   26.  A game controller as claimed in claim 25, wherein the
   symbol display positions are arranged in a plurality of
35 columns, each column comprising a plurality of symbol
   display positions and the base symbol set comprises a
   plurality of symbol subsets corresponding to respective
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                                  - 33
   ones of a plurality of columns such that each designated
   symbol display position corresponds to one of the symbol
   sets.
 5 27.   A game controller as claimed in claim 25 or 26,
   wherein the symbol position designator designates the
   symbol position in response to a trigger condition being
   met as part of a prior game round.
10 28.   A game controller as claimed in claim 27, wherein the
   prior game round comprises:
         the base symbol selector selecting symbols for
   display at  each of the plurality   of symbol display
   positions from the base symbol set; and
15       the outcome evaluator evaluating the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of symbol display positions to
   determine whether the trigger condition is met.
   29.   A game controller as claimed in claim 28, wherein the
20 trigger condition is that the displayed symbols include a
   designated minimum number of scatter symbols.
   30.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 29, wherein the position of the designated symbol
25 display position is predetermined.
   31.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 29, wherein the symbol position designator comprising
   selecting the position of the designated symbol display
30 position at random.
   32.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 31, wherein the game round is one of a series of game
   rounds conducted by the game controller in which a symbol
35 is selected by the bonus symbol selector from a bonus
   symbols set for display at a designated symbol display
   position.
                                                 7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 34
   33.  A game controller as claimed in claim 32, wherein the
   symbol position designator designates a different symbol
   display position in different ones of the game rounds.
 5
   34.  A game controller as claimed in claim 33, wherein the
   symbol position designator moves the designated symbol
   display position between symbol display positions in
   accordance with a designated pattern of movement.
10
   35.  A game controller as claimed in claim 34, wherein the
   symbol position designator moves the designated symbol
   display position between symbol display positions in
   accordance with a random displacement relative to a prior
15 designated symbol display position.
   36.  A game controller as claimed in claim 33, wherein the
   symbol position designator selects the designated symbol
   display position at random for at least one subsequent
20 game round of the series of game rounds.
   37.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 36, further arranged to end the series of game rounds
   upon an end condition being met.
25
   38.  A game controller as claimed in claim 37, wherein the
   end condition is based on an evaluation of the selected
   symbols of a game round.
30 39.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 38, wherein the bonus symbol selector is arranged to
   select symbols for a plurality of designated symbol
   positions.
35 40.  A game controller as claimed in claim 39, wherein the
   bonus symbol selector selects symbols for each designated
   symbol position independently from the bonus symbol set.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 35
   41.  A game controller as claimed in claim 39, wherein
   there are a plurality of symbol sets and the bonus symbol
   selector selects symbols for each designated symbol
 5 position independently from different ones of the
   plurality bonus symbol sets.
   42.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 39
   to 41, wherein there is initially a single designated
10 symbol position and the game controller adds one or more
   additional designated symbol positions in response to a
   position adding condition being met.
   43.  A game controller as claimed in claim 42, wherein the
15 position adding condition is that a designated outcome has
   occurred in a prior game round.
   44.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 43, wherein the bonus symbol set comprises at least one
20 function symbol.
   45.  A game controller as claimed in claim 44, wherein the
   function symbol is a wild symbol which substitutes for
   other symbols.
25
   46.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 45, wherein the bonus symbol set includes at least one
   symbol which can be used to form the highest available
   winning symbol combination.
30
   47.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 46, wherein each of the symbol display positions is
   associated with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
35 48.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25
   to 47, implemented at least in part by a processor
   executing program code stored in a memory.
                                              76729681 (GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 36
   49.  A gaming system comprising:
        a display for displaying play of a game;
        a game play mechanism for initiating play of the
 5 game; and
        a game controller operably connected to the display
   and the game play mechanism, and arranged to:
             designate a symbol display position of a
   plurality of symbol display positions as having a bonus
1o symbol set applying to it for a game round;
             select and display a symbol from the bonus symbol
   set at the designated symbol display position;
             select symbols for display at the other symbol
   display positions from a base symbol set independently of
15 the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
             evaluate the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of symbol display positions to determine whether to make
   an award for the game round.
20 50.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 49, wherein the
   plurality of symbol display positions are arranged in a
   plurality of columns on the display, each column
   comprising a plurality of symbol display positions.
25 51.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 50, wherein the
   base symbol set comprises a plurality of symbol subsets
   corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of
   columns such that each designated symbol display position
   corresponds to one of the symbol sets.
30
   52.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
   52, wherein the game controller is arranged to designate
   the symbol position in response to a trigger condition
   being met as part of a prior game round.
35
   53.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 52, wherein the
   prior game round comprises the game controller:
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                               - 37
         selecting symbols for display at each of the
    plurality of symbol display positions from the base symbol
    set; and
         evaluating the symbols displayed at the plurality of
  5 symbol display positions to determine whether the trigger
    condition is met.
    54.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 53, wherein the
    trigger condition is that the displayed symbols include a
10  designated minimum number of scatter symbols.
    55.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
    54, wherein the position of the designated symbol display
    position is predetermined.
15
    56.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
    54, wherein the game controller is arranged to select the
    position of the designated symbol display position at
    random.
20
    57.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
    56, wherein the game round is one of a series of game
    rounds in which a symbol is selected by the game
    controller for display at a designated symbol display
25  position.
    58.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 57, wherein the
    game controller is arranged to select different designated
    symbol display positions in different ones of the game
30  rounds.
    59.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 58, wherein the
    game controller is arranged to move the designated symbol
    display position between symbol display positions in
35  accordance with a designated pattern of movement.
    60.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 58, wherein the
                                                7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 38
   game controller is arranged to move the designated symbol
   display position between symbol display positions in
   accordance with a random displacement relative to a prior
   designated symbol display position.
 5
   61.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 58, wherein the
   game controller is arranged to select the designated
   symbol display position at random for at least one
   subsequent game round of the series of game rounds.
10
   62.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 57 to
   61, wherein the game controller is arranged to end the
   series of game rounds when an end condition is met.
15 63.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 62, wherein the
   end condition is based on an evaluation by the game
   controller of the selected symbols of a game round.
   64.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
20 63, wherein the game controller is arranged to select
   symbols for a plurality of designated symbol positions.
   65.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 64, wherein the
   game controller is arranged to select symbols for each
25 designated symbol position independently from the bonus
   symbol set.
   66.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 64, wherein there
   are a plurality of symbol sets and the game controller is
30 arranged to select symbols for each designated symbol
   position independently from different ones of the
   plurality bonus symbol sets.
   67.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 64 to
35 66, wherein there is initially a single designated symbol
   position and the game controller adds one or more
   additional designated symbol positions in response to a
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 39
   position adding condition being met.
   68.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 67, wherein the
   position adding condition is that a designated outcome has
 5 occurred in a prior game round.
   69.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
   68, wherein the bonus symbol set comprises at least one
   function symbol.
10
   70.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 69, wherein the
   function symbol is a wild symbol which substitutes for
   other symbols.
15 71.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
   70, wherein the bonus symbol set includes at least one
   symbol which can be used to form the highest available
   winning symbol combination.
20 72.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 49 to
   71, wherein each of the symbol display positions is
   associated with one of a plurality of spinning reels.
   73.  An electronic gaming machine comprising:
25      a cabinet;
        a display mounted to the cabinet
        a game play mechanism comprising one or more input
   devices for initiating play of the game mounted to the
   cabinet; and
30      a game controller disposed within the cabinet, the
   game controller operably connected to the display and the
   game play mechanism, the game controller comprising a
   processor which executes program code stored in a memory
   such that the game controller:
35           designates a symbol display position of a
   plurality of symbol display positions as having a bonus
   symbol set applying to it for a game round;
                                               76729681 (GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

                              - 40
             selects and displays a symbol from the bonus
   symbol set at the designated symbol display position;
             selects symbols for display at the other symbol
   display positions from a base symbol set independently of
 5 the selection of the symbol from the bonus symbol set; and
             evaluates the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of symbol display positions to determine whether to make
   an award for the game round.
10 74.  Computer program code which when executed implements
   the method of any one of claims 1 to 24.
   75.  A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
   computer program code of claim 74.
15
   76.  Transmitting the computer program code of claim 74.
                                               7672968_1(GHMaters) P82079.AU.3DEBORAM

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
