                                           - 16
  ABSTRACT
         The invention relates to a handheld touch object comprising a body presenting
  a plurality of manually manipulated tactile features extending from or formed into at
  least one surface of the body, and wherein said object is configured to bear the
5 likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal by virtue of the features of
  contour, shape, outline or texture of said body and said manually manipulated tactile
  features.

    10
              32
          30o
12,
                    24
  18
                 46
       Fig.1

                                              - 1
                     LIKENESS BEARING HANDHELD TOUCH OBJECT
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present disclosure relates to a handheld touch object having a plurality of
 5 manually manipulated tactile features extending from or formed into at least one
   surface thereof.
           The present disclosure relates particularly but not exclusively to a handheld
   touch object that may be used as a fidget toy, a stress relief toy, a toy, or a hand
   therapy device or exerciser.
10
   BACKGROUND
           In the modern lifestyle, people are accustomed to being busy and occupied
   for most of the time. This can be exacerbated by devices such as cell phones and
   other electronic devices and the widespread availability of the internet. Thus people
15 may tend to fidget and get restless when they are not occupied. Some people are no
   longer accustomed to occupying themselves in a passive manner, e.g. by observing
   the world around them and engaging in thought. It may be beneficial if ways could
   be devised of responding to this need or modern habit and provide an outlet for
   energy that would otherwise be directed to fidgeting. Accordingly, it is an object of
20 the present invention to provide an object to address at least of the needs described
   above or at least provide the public with a useful alternative.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect the present invention can be said to broadly consist in a
25 handheld touch object comprising a body presenting a plurality of manually
   manipulated tactile features extending from or formed into at least one surface of the
   body, and wherein said object is configured (and optionally also patterned) to bear
   the likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal being.
   In some embodiments said apparatus is configured to bear the likeness of a being
30 such as a character, human, or animal being, by virtue of features of contour, shape,
   outline or texture of one or both of:
               a) said body and
               b) at least one of said manually manipulated tactile features.
           In some embodiments said object is configured (and optionally also
35 patterned) to define facial features of a being such as a character, human, or animal

                                                - 2
   being by virtue of features of contour, shape, outline or texture of one or both of said
   body and at least one of said manually manipulated tactile features.
           In some embodiments said apparatus is configured to bear the likeness of a
   being such as a character, human, or animal being, by virtue of features of the
 5 contour and/or shape of said body
           In some embodiments said apparatus is configured to bear the likeness of a
   being such as a character, human, or animal being, by virtue of features of the
   contour, shape, outline or texture of at least one of said manually manipulated tactile
   features.
10         In some embodiments each of the plurality of tactile features is different and
   distinct from the other tactile features.
           In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   are selected from one or more of:
           a)     a plurality of moveable gears
15          b)    a ball that rolls and is retained by the body and exposed at an outer
           surface of the body,
           c)     a switch,
           d)     a moveable joystick, and
           e)     a plurality of pressable buttons.
20         In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   comprise a plurality of gears and a roller ball that together define or suggest the
   facial features of a being such as a character, human or animal.
           In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   provide audible/or visual feedback upon manual manipulation.
25         In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   comprise buttons that click.
           In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   comprises a plurality of gears arranged in a row, each of the plurality of gears being
   able to roll about a common axis.
30         In some embodiments said plurality of manually manipulated tactile features
   comprises a dial that rotates, the dial mounted substantially flush with an exterior
   surface of the body.
           In some embodiments said body is substantially block or cube shaped.
           In some embodiments a rounded surface transition is provided between
35 adjacent faces of the block or cube.

                                                -3
           In some embodiments each of the plurality of tactile features extends from or
   is formed into a single face of the block or cube.
           In another aspect the invention can be said to broadly consist in a handheld
   touch object substantially as shown in the accompanying drawings.
 5         In another aspect the present invention can be said to broadly consist in a
   handheld touch object wherein said object is configured (and optionally also
   patterned) to bear the likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal
   being, said object comprising a substantially cube shaped body comprising a plurality
   of faces,
10         wherein at each face of the plurality of faces there is presented at least one
           tactile feature,
           wherein at two opposing faces of the plurality of faces there is presented a
           different tactile feature, and;
           wherein the tactile features are any one or more of:
15                             a) a toggle switch presented at a face, the toggle switch
                               moveable between a first position and a second position,
                               b) one or more depressible buttons presented at a face of
                               the body,
                               c) a joystick that glides and pivots relative to a face the
20                             joystick is presented on, and a portion of the joystick
                               positioned proud of the face presenting the joystick,
                               d) one or more moveable gears presented at a face. and
                               e) a dial presented rotateable relative to a face the dial is
                               presented at.
25         In another aspect the present invention can be said to broadly consist in a
   handheld touch object comprising:
                    a)     a body and
                    b)     a plurality of manually manipulated tactile features extending
                    from or formed into a surface of the body,
30 and further comprising one or more likeness bearing elements configured to, alone or
   in concert with other likeness bearing elements, bear the likeness of a being such as
   a character, human or animal.
           In some embodiments at least one or more of the likeness bearing element(s)
   is/are perceptible to both touch and vision.
35         In some embodiments at least one of:

                                                -4
              a)   said body, and
              b) at least one of said manually manipulated tactile features
   is/are configured to define a likeness bearing element.
           In some embodiments said manually manipulated tactile features are selected
 5 from one or more of:
                   a) a plurality of moveable gears
                   b) a ball that rolls and is retained by the body and exposed at an
                       outer surface of the body,
                   c) a switch,
10                 d) a moveable joystick, and
                   e) a plurality of pressable buttons.
           The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means
   'consisting at least in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification and
   claims which include the term 'comprising', other features besides the features
15 prefaced by this term in each statement can also be present. Related terms such as
   'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in a similar manner.
           This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and
   features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or
   collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or
20 features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known
   equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are
   deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
           As used herein the term 'and/or' means 'and' or 'or', or where the context
   allows both. The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions
25 of which the following gives examples only.
           The term "axis" as used in this specification means the axis of revolution
   about which a line or a plane may be revolved to form a symmetrical shape. For
   example, a line revolved around and axis of revolution will form a surface, while a
   plane revolved around and axis of revolution will form a solid.
30
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            The present invention will now be described by way of example only and with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

                                               - 5
          Figure 1 is a perspective view of an example of a handheld touch object that
   may be used, for example, as a fidget toy, a stress relief toy, a toy, or a hand
   therapy device or exerciser.
          Figure 2 shows a first face of the handheld touch object of Figure 1;
 5        Figure 3 shows a second face of the handheld touch object of Figure 1;
          Figure 4 shows a third face of the handheld touch object of Figure 1;
          Figure 5 shows a fourth face of the handheld touch object of Figure 1;
          Figure 6 shows a fifth face of the handheld touch object of Figurel;
          Figure 7 shows a sixth face of the handheld touch object of Figure 1;
10        Figure 8 shows a partially exploded view of the handheld touch object of
   Figure 1 in a simplified form to illustrate how it can be assembled from two shell
   parts and an internal chassis, some features removed and/or simplified in form for
   ease of interpretation,
          Figure 9 shows a sectional view through the assembled form of the touch
15 object shown in figure 8.
          Figure 10 shows a first exemplary embodiment of a handheld touch object
   according to the present invention;
          Figure 11 shows a second exemplary embodiment of a handheld touch object
   according to the present invention;
20        Figure 12 shows a third exemplary embodiment of a handheld touch object
   according to the present invention in front on view;
          Figure 13 shows the handheld touch object of Figure 12 from a top view;
          Figure 14 shows the handheld touch object of Figure 12 from a base view;
          Figure 15 shows the handheld touch object of Figure 12 from a side view;
25        Figure 16 shows the handheld touch object of Figure 12 from an opposing side
   view to that of Figure 15;
          Figure 17 shows the handheld touch object of Figure 12 from a rear view;
          Figure 18 shows an exploded view of the handheld touch object of Figure 12.
30
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          Figures 1 to 9 show an example of a handheld touch object that may be used,
   for example, as a fidget toy, a stress relief toy, a toy, or a hand therapy device or
   exerciser. In Figures 1 to 7, reference numeral 10 refers generally to a handheld
35 touch object in accordance with the disclosure.

                                               -6
            The handheld touch object 10 comprises a body 12, which may for example
   take the form of a multifaceted block. For example, the body 12 may be in the form
   of a substantially rectangular block, e.g. preferably a cube, forming six substantially
   planar faces 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24 of identical perimeter shape.
 5          As detailed in Figures 1 to 10 body 12 may carry different tactile features for
   contact and/or manual manipulation (e.g. movement) presented at or on one or
   more exterior surfaces. For example there could be tactile features at each of the six
   faces 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24. Alternatively only some of the faces may present a
   tactile feature and some faces may present a flat or smooth face with no tactile
10 feature. In some embodiments the body 12 may also comprise rounded edges and
   rounded corners. For example, each edge 60 may be located between two adjacent
   faces of a body can be rounded (i.e. include a radius) to provide a rounded edge and
   smooth transition between two adjacent faces.
            The handheld touch object 10 can be grasped and manipulated in one hand or
15 alternatively the handheld touch object can be grasped in one hand and manipulated
   by the other hand. The object may also be placed on a surface such as a table and
   then have one or more of its tactile features manipulated.
            As shown in Figure 2, the tactile feature presented by the object 10 may
   comprise one or more dials 30. The dial (optionally in the form of a gear having teeth
20 presented at its perimeter) can be manually manipulated by the user. In the
   illustrated form shown in figure 2, for example, a plurality of dials or gears 30, i.e. a
   set of dials or gears thereon that can be manually moved by a user's fingers, are
   presented at the first face 14. The set of dials 30 can be similar to those found in
   mechanical devices such as combination locks. In the illustrated form, the three
25 dials 30 are arranged in a row. Moreover, the dials 30 can be rotatable in one or two
   directions. In the illustrated form shown in figure 2, the dials 30 are arranged for
   dual direction movement (i.e. dual direction rotation). Alternatively the dials 30 may
   be constrained for a single direction movement (i.e. single direction rotation). The
   dials 30 may be arranged to rotate about an axis that is parallel to a face 14 of the
30 body 12 upon which they are presented.
            The dials 30 may comprise one or more teeth to be like a gear. The teeth
   provide bearing features or bearing points for a user to push against as the user
   manipulates or interacts with the gear. The teeth on one gear may be equidistant
   and evenly spaced around the circumference of the gear. In one aspect all the gears
35 30 may be identical and include the same number of teeth. Alternatively at least one

                                                - 7
   gear 30 may include more teeth than the other gears or at least one gear may
   include larger sized teeth than the other gears. The dials or gears 30 may also
   provide an audible click sound as one or more of the dials 30 are rotated. In an
   alternative form one or more dials may be silent when rotated or manipulated and
 5 may not provide an audible feedback.
           In some examples the touch object 10 may also present a ball or rollerball 32
   mounted thereon capable of a rolling movement. The ball or rollerball 32 may be
   rolled by a user in any direction by manual manipulation by a user. In one aspect the
   rollerball 32 is preferably able to be subject to omnidirectional movement but
10 alternatively may be constrained for unidirectional or bidirectional movement.     In
   addition, the rollerball may also be pressed down, towards the center of the body 12
   and when released it reverts to its original rest position. The rollerball 32 may
   optionally be mounted on or coupled to a biasing member or members that bias the
   rollerball 32 back to its original rest position. The rollerball 32 may provide some
15 audible feedback such as a sound when the ball is pressed.
           In the exemplary touch object 10 shown in FIGS. 1-7, the first planar face 14
   can be subdivided into two halves, with the one or more dials or gears 30 being
   positioned on one half and the rollerball 32 being positioned on the other. This can
   allow a user to run a thumb or finger first over the rollerball 32 and then immediately
20 onto the gears 30, thereby creating an interesting or pleasing tactile sensation of
   touching a smooth hard rolling surface immediately followed by a rough hard rolling
   surface, all in the same short movement. Moving a thumb or finger in the opposite
   direction can create a reversed sequence of tactile sensations. If positioned correctly,
   it may even possible for a user to touch and/or manipulate both tactile features 30,
25 32 presented on the first planar surface at the same time. Such a configuration can
   beneficially provide for a variety of tactile sensations and sequences that help
   maintain a user's interest in touching and manipulating the tactile features on the
   touch object.
           Nevertheless, it will be appreciated that the one or more gears 30 and the
30 rollerball 32 could be presented at different locations, either individually or in
   combination with different tactile features, as discussed in more detail below.
           As shown in Figure 3, a further or alternative tactile feature can be a turning
   disk (preferably in the form of a dial) 34 rotatably mounted upon a surface of the
   body 12. In one aspect the turning disk 34 may be mounted substantially flush with
35 a surface or face 16 of the body 12 and is capable of being manually turned and

                                                -8
   rotated on the face by the finger of a user, wherein the finger could be any one of
   the user's five fingers. In the exemplary form the rotation axis of the turning disk 34
   may benormal to the second face 16 or alternatively the turning disk or dial 34 may
   be mounted slightly proud of the face 16.
 5          The turning disk 34 can further include a gripping tab in the form of a small
   protrusion 36 projecting up therefrom for assisting a user to grip the disk 34 and
   rotate it relative to the face 16. The protrusion 36 is generally located adjacent or
   near to the circumferential edge of the disk 34 but alternatively may be spaced from
   the circumferential edge and spaced away from the center of the disk 34. In an
10 alternative form the turning disk 34 may include multiple gripping tabs positioned
   around the disk 34 and where gripping tabs are protrusions. The gripping tabs may
   be equally spaced around the circumference or may be randomly distributed around
   the disk or dial 34.
            As shown in Figure 4, a further present tactile feature can be a switch 40. It
15 may be a toggle switch. The switch 40 can be pivoted by manual manipulation by a
   user between two positions that mimics an equipment control switch being shifted
   between on and off positions. In the example touch object 10 the axis of rotation of
   the switch 40 is parallel to the third face 18.
            Another option is that a tactile feature that can comprise a plurality of buttons
20 42, preferably arranged in the form of an array over a surface of the body 12. In the
   illustrated embodiment, there are four buttons 42 delimiting 20 a notional square
   and a fifth button 42 positioned centrally within the notional square. The buttons 42
   can be moveable inward toward the middle of the body 12 and while being biased
   outward toward the fourth face 20. One or more of the buttons 42 may provide a
25 tactile feedback when pushed and/or may provide an audible feedback such as, for
   example, an audible click when pushed inward. In one example selected buttons
   from the array of buttons 42 can make an audible click and while other selected
   buttons make no sound. At least two of the buttons 42 may provide an audible and
   tactile feedback when pushed or depressed by a user and at least two of the buttons
30 42 provide a tactile feedback and no audible feedback when pushed or depressed.
   The height of the buttons above the fourth face 20 after being pushed inward can
   also vary. One or more of the push buttons 42 may also provide a visual feedback
   when pushed or depressed.
            As shown in Figure 6, another tactile feature can be a shallow recess 44 in a
35 surface of the body 12. The recess 44 may have an interesting or unique tactile feel

                                               -9
   or a surface finish that is different to the rest of the body. In one example the recess
   44 may have a different tactile feel to the outer surfaces of the body 12, for example
   the recess may be smoother or rougher than the surface of the body 12 or have
   some other texture. The recess 44 can also include transition regions 48 extending
 5 between a face 22 of the body and a base 50 of the recess 44. The transition regions
   48 may be rounded or provide a smooth transition from the face 22 to the base 50 of
   the recess 44. As noted above, the base 50 may include a surface finish that may be
   different to the surface finish of one or more surfaces of the body 12. For example
   the base 50 may be rougher or smoother than the fifth face 22, thereby providing a
10 user with a different tactile sensation when the user touches (i.e. manipulates) the
   recess. This tactile feature 44 may mimic a worry stone. When fidgeting, a user can
   manually run their finger along and/or around the recess 44 in the same way that
   they would do for a worry stone, to calm and soothe the emotions.
           As shown in Figure 7, the body 12 may present another tactile feature that
15 can be a joystick 46. The joystick preferably comprises an axle 52 projecting
   outwardly from an outer surface 24 of the body (as seen in figures 4 and 5) and at
   the end of which may be presented a disk 54. The disk 54 preferably sits proud of a
   body surface or face 24. The disk may alternatively be of another shape that a user
   can touch and/or grasp. The joystick may be flexibly or rotationally mounted on the
20 body 12, with the disk 54 spaced a small distance above a surface or face 24 of the
   body, which can be manually manipulated by a user. Typically a user might push
   back and forth or around in a circle using the flat surface of the disk 54 of the
   joystick 46. This fidget feature mimics joy sticks that are used in computer games
   and would be known to computer game users. In one example a user may also
25 rotate the disk 54 slightly by twisting the circumference of the disk 54.
           In use, the handheld touch object 10 can be manually used by a user to
   occupy their hands. The user typically grasps the touch object 10 in their hand and
   uses their fingers to manipulate the tactile features that may be presented at or
   extending from the body 12. It will be appreciated that the handheld touch object 10
30 is shaped and capable of being gripped by the fingers of a hand. For example the
   body of the touch object 10 may occupy between 1 / 6th to 1 / 3 rd the area of an
   average user's palm, when the touch object 10 is placed flat on the palm. For
   example, in one form the body 12 may be cube shaped, with each face of the cube
   having a width and a height ranging from about 2.5cm to about 4.5cm, and
35 preferably a width and a height of about 3.3cm. In exemplary forms with a cube

                                               - 10
   shaped body 12, each face 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24 may have an equal height and
   width, and each face may be identical in plan perimeter shape.
            The different tactile features can provide a wide variety of different user
   experiences, and a user can continuously manipulate or rotate the handheld touch
 5 object 10 to select a tactile feature that best fits his or her preference at that
   moment. For example, the shallow recess 44 with its tactile feel mimicking a worry
   stone, contrasts with the deliberate action of switching the toggle switch 40 on and
   off repeatedly. Further the user could conceivably interact with the tactile features
   on two opposed faces of the body at one time, with different fingers of one hand or
10 different fingers of two hands. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the user
   might interact with (or manipulate) with the push buttons on one face and the toggle
   switch on the opposed face simultaneously. Accordingly, one or more of the tactile
   features may provide a tactile (i.e. haptic feedback) when manipulated. In addition,
   one or more of the tactile features may provide an audible feedback when
15 manipulated for example an audible click. Finally, one or more of the tactile features
   described herein may also provide a visual feedback when manipulated. One or more
   of the tactile features described herein may provide either one or two or all three of a
   tactile feedback, audible feedback and visual feedback. For example the recess 44
   generally provides a tactile feedback. The toggle switch 40 can provide an audible
20 feedback, tactile feedback and a visual feedback. Similarly the turning disk 34 can
   also provide a tactile, audible and visual feedback. The pushbuttons 42 preferably
   provide a tactile and audible feedback. Other combinations are also possible and
   considered to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.
            Furthermore, it will also be appreciated that a user can manipulate a plurality
25 of the tactile features at different locations on the touch object body 12, either
   simultaneously or in a desired sequence, to achieve a desired sensation or feedback.
   This activity may be undertaken using either different fingers of one hand, different
   fingers of two hands, or both. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the user
   might simultaneously interact with (or manipulate) with the push buttons 42 on one
30 the fourth face 20 using a thumb and the toggle switch 40 on the opposed third face
   18 using the middle finger, while all the while stabilizing the object with the index
   finger pressed against the disk of the joystick 46 presented on the sixth face 24. The
   user could then rotate the touch object body by 90 degrees around two different
   axes so that the thumb could simultaneously interact with the rollerball 32 and gears
35 30 on the first face 16 while the index finger interacted with the toggle switch 40 on

                                              - 11
   the third face 18 and the middle finger interacted with the turning disk 34 on the
   second face 18. It is desired that the touch object is configured to permit that a wide
   variety of additional simultaneous multi-tactile feature interactions are also possible.
            In addition to the above, one or more of the tactile features may also
 5 comprise different colours or coloured portions to provide a visual feedback as the
   tactile features are manipulated. For example the rotating risk 34 may have a spoke
   pattern disposed thereon, where the spokes are a different colour to the rotating disk
   34, and the coloured spoked providing a visual feedback as the disk is rotated. In
   another example each dial 30 may include a colour portion, e.g. a coloured tooth or
10 teeth that provide a visual feedback as the dials are manipulated by a user.
            The handheld touch object body 12 is formed from rigid material or materials.
   Preferably the material is a rigid, lightweight material such as for example a plastics
   material. Preferably the handheld touch object body 12 is moulded from a plastics
   material. Alternatively the body 12 may be vacuum formed or could be formed using
15 any other suitable processing method. The tactile features are preferably made from
   a plastics material. The tactile features may be formed of the same plastics material
   as the body 12, or may be formed from a different plastics material. The tactile
   features are formed by a moulding process or other suitable process. In one
   exemplary configuration the tactile features may be of a different colour to the body
20 12. For example the tactile features are formed of a plastics material that has a
   different colour to the plastics material used to form the body 12. Alternatively the
   body 12 and the tactile features are formed of the same coloured material.
            The touch object 10 may be comprised of a multi part construction, where
   each part of the body is coupled to the other the other parts to form a complete
25 body. For example the body 12 may be formed of a two part shell construction as
   seen in figure 8. A first shell 80 and a second shell 90 may be provided that can be
   connected together to form the outer shell of the body. Within the outer shell of the
   body a chassis member 95 can be retained.
            The outers shell may be formed of two equal parts with a split plane (i.e. part
30 line) formed along multiple faces. The two shell parts 80 and 90 may be permanently
   connected at their interface 96. This may be achieved for example with a permanent
   snap fit connection or alternatively by adhesive or by a suitable plastic welding
   process such as for example ultrasonic welding.
            The chassis is an internal chassis for mounting and/or providing retention
35 features to mount or retain one or more of the tactile features described above (save

                                               - 12
   for the recess which may merely be provided by one of the shells 80/90). The
   mounting or retaining features retain may the tactile features in a manner that
   allows movement of the tactile features when manipulated by the user. Some
   examples of the mounting or retaining features are a recess 97 for the ball (i.e.
 5 rollerball) to seat into and be captured by the housing shell. Another example is a
   hole 98 to receive an axle of the turning disk 34.
           The shells 90 and 90 may have appropriate shaped opening for the tactile
   features held or retained by the chassis to protect through. The opening 81 is large
   enough for a part of the ball 32 to project through but is smaller than the diameter of
10 the ball 32 to help retain the ball in its seated condition. The opening 91 is
   preferably of a diameter just bigger than the diameter of the disk 34 so that the disk
   can sit in the opening. For simplicity only two tactile features are shown, associated
   with the chassis. A skilled person will, based on the disclosure made, be able to
   design a chassis that provides for an ability to retain and/or mount other tactile
15 features as herein described.
           The chassis 95 may be secured to one of both shells in a rigid manner. There
   may be mounts 83 provided at where the chassis and the shell 80 are connected
   together in a secure manner.
           Each of the shells are preferably formed from a plastics material. The body 12
20 is preferably formed of a rigid plastics material meaning the body 12 does not
   deform visually when squeezed or manipulated by a user's hands or fingers. The
   body 12 maintains its shape substantially in response to a force being applied to the
   body.
           In embodiments of the present invention, in addition to presenting a plurality
25 of manually manipulated tactile features the touch object 10 is also configured (and
   optionally patterned) to bear the likeness of a being. The being could for example be
   a fantasy or comic character, a human or humanoid being, an animal, a monster or
   an anthropomorphosised object or robot.
           The touch object may be configured to bear the likeness of a particular being
30 by comprising certain likeness bearing elements that suggest or mimic various
   physical aspects of the being, such as its body, face, facial features, clothing and
   accessories. The likeness bearing elements could for example suggest or mimic
   features such as the eyes, nose, mouth and hairstyle of a particular character being.
           To some extent patterning on an exterior surface (e.g. 22, 24) of the body 12
35 and/or on one of more of the manually manipulated tactile features (e.g. 30, 32, 34,

                                             - 13
   42, 50) can be used to define likeness bearing elements of the touch object 10.
   However in preferred forms of the present invention, the likeness bearing elements
   are both visually perceptible and also perceptible by touch. For example, where the
   character to be emulated in likeness is a superhero, the touch object 10 may include
 5 as a likeness bearing element a sheet made of a soft or flexible material that both
   visually and perceptibly mimics a cape. Similarly the body 12 may include, as
   likeness bearing elements, mounded regions which suggest the bulging muscles of
   the superhero character.
10          Configuring the touch object 10 to bear the likeness of a being produces an
   emotional response in the user of the object, which response can increase the degree
   of amusement, enjoyment, distraction and/or stress relief that a user experiences in
   using and handling the touch object. In preferred embodiments of the invention, one
   or both of the body 12 and the tactile manipulation features provide or define the
15 likeness bearing elements of the touch object, such that the tactile experience of
   manually manipulating the device reinforces and enhances the user's visual
   recognition of the character.
            Figures 10 to 19 show some specific examples of how a touch object 10 with
   tactile features such as those exemplified in Figures 1 to 7 can in various ways be
20 configured (and optionally also patterned) to bear the likeness of a being such as a
   character, human, or animal being. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that
   these are some specific examples, but that there are a wide variety of configurations
   that belong to the scope of the present invention. In particular the body 12 of the
   touch object need not be a block or cube. In other embodiments the body 12 could
25 be substantially spherical, or shaped with angular sides, or any other shape that
   lends itself to the desired configuration of bearing the likeness of a being.
            In Figure 10, the body 12 has a flat face 14 which mimics the shape of the
   face of a character being. The face 14 has likeness bearing elements on it to suggest
   or mimic the facial features of two eyes on either side of an intermediate nose, and a
30 mouth beneath. Such likeness bearing features are provided by a row of movable
   gears 30 above a rolling ball 32 exposed through a surface of the face 14. Said
   features also function as moveable tactile features to facilitate fidgeting. The likeness
   is further enhanced by features of pattern, such as the dots which are marked on the
   gears 30 of the character to mimic the character's pupils. Such patterning can in
35 some embodiments serve the dual purpose of providing visual feedback about the

                                               - 14
   movement of the tactile feature, and thus enhances the utility of the tactile features
   for fidgeting.
            Figure 11 shows a different embodiment wherein the being is a mouse, and
   wherein many of the likeness bearing elements, being those which define the eyes
 5 and nose of the mouse, are applied as a pattern on the face 14 of the body 12. The
   body 12 also has circular projections which extend outwardly to bear the likeness of
   the mouse's ears. The likeness bearing element which suggests the mouth of the
   mouse is provided by a rolling ball 32 retained but exposed at the face 14 of the
   body. It can be seen that there are additional tactile features, such as press buttons
10 42, a joystick 46, and a switch 40, which project from other faces (24, 20, 18) of the
   touch object which do not carry likeness bearing elements. Although in some
   embodiments it is possible that all faces or surfaces of the body may carry likeness
   bearing elements.
            A final example embodiment of a touch object is shown in Figures 12 - 18,
15 wherein the touch object carries manually manipulated tactile features including an
   array of press buttons 42, a moveable joystick 46, a switch 40, a row of gears 30
   and a roller ball 32. In addition there is a further manually manipulated tactile
   feature comprising a rotatable end cap 50. The object 10 has a substantially cube
   shaped body 12, however the end cap 50 protrudes out from the notional cube
20 shaped periphery of the body 12 to a small extent. The end cap 50 is contoured to
   define a number of likeness bearing elements of a human character, including the
   character's eyes, nose, mouth and hair.
            As shown in Figure 18 the end cap fits on to a circular collar 51 which is
   rotatably mounted to a ratchet plate 52 secured to the body. As the end cap 50
25 rotates it vibrates over the ratchet plate 52 causing an audible feedback.
            To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in
   construction and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will
   suggest themselves without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in
   the appended claims. The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely
30 illustrative and are not intended to be in any sense limiting.

                                              - 15
   CLAIMS
   1.      A handheld touch object comprising a body presenting a plurality of manually
   manipulated tactile features extending from or formed into at least one surface of the
 5 body, and wherein said object is configured (and optionally also patterned) to bear
   the likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal being.
   2.      The handheld touch object of claim 1 wherein said apparatus is configured to
   bear the likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal being, by virtue
   of features of contour, shape, outline or texture of one or both of:
10         a) said body and
           b) at least one of said manually manipulated tactile features.
   3.      The handheld touch object of claim 2 wherein said apparatus is configured to
   bear the likeness of a being such as a character, human, or animal being, by virtue
   of features of the contour, shape, outline or texture of at least one of said manually
15 manipulated tactile features.
   4.      The handheld touch object of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said plurality of
   manually manipulated tactile features are selected from one or more of:
           a) a plurality of moveable gears
           b) a ball that rolls and is retained by the body and exposed at an outer
20             surface of the body,
           c) a switch,
           d) a moveable joystick, and
           e) a plurality of pressable buttons.
   5.      The handheld touch object of claim 4 wherein said plurality of manually
25 manipulated tactile features comprise a plurality of gears and a roller ball that
   together define or suggest the facial features of a being such as a character, human
   or animal.

<removed-date>
                             EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 13 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
