ABSTRACT
       A hose-end sprayer (1) for connecting to a container of a liquid based
chemical to be diluted by a stream of carrier liquid, the sprayer (1) including:
        a cap member (3) for securing the sprayer (1) on the container, the cap
member (3) having a liquid chemical outlet for dispensing liquid chemical from the
container;
        a hose-end connector (5) for connecting the sprayer (1) to a hose suppling
a carrier liquid, the hose-end connector (5) having an opening for dispensing a
stream of carrier liquid supplied from the hose, and
        a closure tab (13) for blocking passage of the carrier liquid from the
opening, wherein the carrier liquid is blocked by a barrier portion of the closure
tab (13) engaging with the opening.

355
    Figure 1

                                         1
HOSE-END SPRAYER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The invention relates to a hose-end sprayer which is connectable to
the end of a hose supplying a source of carrier liquid, for example a stream of
water from a garden hose, and is also connectable to a container of a liquid
based chemical, for example a weed killer, to be diluted by the stream of carrier
liquid and subsequently dispensed as a spray.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]     A hose-end sprayer is typically used in a garden environment to
dispense a chemical, for example a weed killer or fertiliser, which is mixed with a
stream of carrier liquid such as water passing through the sprayer. In this regard,
a hose-end sprayer usually has a hose-end connector of some form which
connects to the end of a garden hose supplying water under pressure to the
sprayer, and includes a threaded member which secures to the neck of a
container of liquid based chemical to be dispensed. In this respect, the threaded
member is typically in the form of a screw cap or lid that includes an outlet for
dispensing the chemical from the container. The outlet in the cap is usually
connected to a tube which extends to the bottom of the container when the
sprayer is mounted to the container. In operation, the stream of water passing
through the sprayer from the garden hose creates a venturi effect in the sprayer
which draws the liquid chemical contained in the container up through the tube
and into the stream of water where it is mixed with the water before being
discharged from the sprayer.
[0003]      In some instances, hose-end sprayers have some form of valve for
stopping the flow of water when required such that the user does not need to stop
the water flow at the source, for example the garden tap to which the hose is
connected.

                                            2
[0004]       A typical valve in a hose-end sprayer includes a tap which twists in a
portion of a water passage through the hose-end sprayer to open and close the
water passage. Alternatively, a sliding tap may be utilised which selectively
blocks the water passage. These types of valves typically require some form of
O-ring in order to seal the passage of water and increase the cost, complexity
and assembly time of the hose-end sprayer.
[0005]       Any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
specification is included to explain the context of the invention. It should not be
taken as an admission that any of the material formed part of the prior art base or
the common general knowledge in the relevant art on or before the priority date of
the claims herein.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]       In accordance with the present invention there is provided a hose-end
sprayer for connecting to a container of a liquid based chemical to be diluted by a
stream of carrier liquid, the sprayer including:
             a cap member for securing the sprayer on the container, the cap
member having a liquid chemical outlet for dispensing liquid chemical from the
container;
             a hose-end connector for connecting the sprayer to a hose suppling a
carrier liquid, the hose-end connector having an opening for dispensing a stream
of carrier liquid supplied from the hose, and
             a closure tab for blocking passage of the carrier liquid from the
opening, wherein the carrier liquid is blocked by a barrier portion of the closure
tab engaging with the opening.
[0007]       Preferably, the closure tab is pivotable relative to the opening with the
barrier portion of the closure tab moving into engagement with the opening as the
closure tab is pivoted towards a closed position in which passage of carrier liquid
from the opening is blocked. In this respect, the barrier portion of the closure tab

                                           3
which engages with the opening preferably has at least a free end which is sized
and shaped to locate within the opening. In a particularly preferred embodiment,
the barrier portion is a tapered protrusion which is formed on a rear wall surface
of the closure tab. The rear wall surface lying substantially perpendicular to the
opening when the tapered protrusion is in engagement with the opening.
[0008]      The cap member of the hose-end sprayer preferably includes a pair of
opposing wall members forming a guide path therebetween for carrier liquid
exiting the opening. Further, the closure tab is preferably pivotally mounted to the
opposing wall members with outwardly projecting hinge pins of the closure tab
engaging with corresponding recesses in the opposing wall members.
[0009]      In a particularly preferred embodiment, the closure tab includes an
outwardly projecting shield on the rear wall surface of the closure tab to reduce
splashback on a user closing the closure tab.
[0010]      The hose-end connector may include a series of spaced lugs around a
neck portion of the hose-end connector which in use, assist to prevent angular
movement of the hose-end connector with respect to the hose.
[0011]      The closure tab may further include a stop member for blocking the
chemical liquid outlet when the closure tab is in a closed position. The stop
member may be in the form of a stem projecting from an underside of the closure
tab. In addition, the cap member may include a breather hole and the closure tab
may include a plug for blocking the breather hole when the closure tab is in a
closed position. The plug is preferably an extension of a side skirt of the closure
tab.
[0012]      The stem, plug and barrier portion of the closure tab advantageously
simultaneously engage with the liquid chemical outlet, breather hole and opening
of the hose-end connector, respectively, when the closure tab is in the closed
position.

                                            4
[0013]       To assist the further understanding of the invention, reference will now
be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate preferred embodiments.
It is to be appreciated that these embodiments are given by way of illustration
only and that the invention is not to be limited by these illustrations.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]       Figure 1 is a side perspective view of a hose-end sprayer in
accordance with a preferred embodiment, with the closure tab shown in a closed
position;
[0015]       Figure 2 is a side perspective view of the hose-end sprayer illustrated
in Figure 1 with the closure tab shown in an open position;
[0016]       Figure 3 is a perspective view of a side and rear end of the hose-end
sprayer illustrated in Figure 2;
[0017]       Figure 4a is a top view of the hose-end sprayer illustrated in Figure 1
with the closure tab in a closed position;
[0018]       Figure 4b is a sectional view of the hose-end sprayer taken along the
line A-A in Figure 4a;
[0019]       Figure 5a is a bottom view of the hose-end sprayer illustrated in Figure
1;
[0020]       Figure 5b is a sectional view of the hose-end sprayer taken along line
B-B in Figure 5a with the closure tab shown in an opened position;
[0021]       Figure 6 is a perspective view of the closure tab of the hose-end
sprayer illustrated in Figure 1;

                                             5
[0022]       Figure 7 is a side view of the closure tab illustrated in Figure 6; and
[0023]       Figure 8 is a bottom view of the closure tab illustrated in Figure 6.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0024]      With reference to the accompanying drawings there is shown a hose
end sprayer 1 for connecting to a container of a liquid based chemical to be
diluted by a stream of carrier liquid, for example water, and subsequently
dispensed from the sprayer 1. The hose-end sprayer 1 includes a cap member 3
which preferably includes an internal thread for engaging with a corresponding
threaded neck of a container (not shown) housing the liquid based chemical. The
hose-end sprayer 1 further includes a hose-end connector 5 for coupling the
sprayer 1 to a garden hose (not shown) supplying a carrier liquid from a garden
tap (not shown) to which the garden hose is connected. The hose-end connector
5 includes a conventional hose coupling 7 at one end for connecting the sprayer 1
to the garden hose. An opposite end of the hose-end connector 5 has an
opening 9 for dispensing a stream of carrier liquid supplied from the connected
hose. In this respect, as shown in Figures 4b and 5b, the hose-end connector 5
includes a carrier liquid passage 11 which extends through the hose-end
connector 5.
[0025]      The hose-end sprayer 1 further includes a closure tab 13 which is able
to pivot with respect to the opening 9 to selectively block the opening 9 such that
carrier liquid is inhibited to at least a substantial degree from exiting the opening
9. Preferably, the blocking action performed by the closure tab 13 is sufficient to
seal the opening 9 such that no carrier liquid can exit from the opening 9. The
closure tab 13 is preferably pivotally mounted to the cap member 3 but may in an
alternative embodiment be pivotally mounted to the hose-end connector 5. The
closure tab 13 includes a barrier portion for engaging with the opening 9 to
provide the blocking action. The opening 9 may be of any shape but is preferably
circular. Similarly, the barrier portion may be of any suitable shape to inhibit

                                           6
carrier liquid from exiting the opening 9. In one embodiment, the barrier portion
may be dome shaped or take the form of a half sphere which is able to jam into
the opening 9. With reference to the preferred embodiment shown in Figures 6
and 8, the barrier portion may be in the form of a tapered protrusion 15 or plug
which is formed on a rear wall 17 of the closure tab 13. As shown in Figure 4b,
the tapered protrusion 15 is ideally sized such that at least a free end of the
tapered protrusion 15 is able to snuggly fit into the opening 9 and seat against the
side walls of the opening 9 to provide a plug-like seal.
[0026]       In regards to the pivotal movement of the closure tab 13, the closure
tab 13 preferably includes two outwardly projecting hinge pins 19 at one end of
the closure tab 13 as best shown in Figure 6. The hinge pins 19 preferably
engage with corresponding recesses provided in opposing wall members 21 of
the cap member 3. The hinge pins 19 may for example be snap-fitted into the
corresponding recesses in the wall members 21 or attached in any other known
manner. The hinge pins 19 provide a pivot axis enabling the closure tab 13 to be
pivoted relative to the opening 9 with the barrier portion of the closure tab 13
moving into engagement with the opening 9 as the closure tab 13 is pivoted about
the hinge axis from an open position, as shown in Figures 2, 3 and 5b, towards a
closed position, as shown in Figures 1, 4a and 4b in which the passage of carrier
liquid from the opening 9 is blocked.
[0027]       The cap member 3 preferably includes a liquid chemical outlet 23 for
dispensing the liquid based chemical from the container. The chemical outlet 23
is ideally located centrally of the cap member 3, as best shown in Figure 5a, and
is connected to a tube (not shown) which in use, is inserted into the container and
extends to the bottom of the container when the cap member 3 is attached to the
container. A breather hole 27 is also preferably provided in the cap member 3 to
equalise air pressure within the container. The breather hole 27 is preferably
slightly offset from the chemical outlet 23 and is located closer to the opening 9
than the chemical outlet 23. In addition, the chemical outlet 23 and breather hole
27 are both preferably positioned between the opposing wall members 21 which

                                            7
project upwardly from a top surface of the cap member 3 and define a guide path
for dispensed liquid.
[0028]      The hose-end sprayer 1 operates in a conventional manner in that
when a stream of carrier liquid is dispensed from the opening 9 and passed over
the chemical outlet 23, a venturi effect is created which draws the liquid chemical
up the tube and through the chemical outlet 23 where it mixes with the carrier
liquid. In order to selectively close the chemical outlet 23, the closure tab 13 may
further include a stop member which may take the form of a projecting pin or stem
25 on an underside of the closure tab 13. The projecting stem 25 is sized and
shaped to engage with the chemical outlet 23 when the closure tab 13 is moved
to the closed position illustrated in Figure 1. In this respect, as best shown in
Figure 4b, the stem 25 preferably engages in a friction fit manner to at least block
access to the chemical outlet 23. More preferably, the fit is sufficient to seal the
chemical outlet 23. The stem 25 engaging in the chemical outlet 23 may also
assist to hold the closure tab 13 in the closed position, for example when the
closure tab 13 is under pressure from the force of the carrier liquid acting on the
barrier portion of the closure tab 13 in the opening 9.
[0029]      The closure tab 13 may further include a projecting plug 29 on the
underside of the closure tab 13 which is sized and shaped to engage with and
block the breather hole 27 when the closure tab 13 is moved to the closed
position. The plug 29 preferably blocks the liquid chemical from escaping from
the container when the hose-end sprayer 1 is not being used to spray the liquid
chemical. The plug 29 may also assist to hold the closure tab 13 in the closed
position when the closure tab 13 is under pressure from the force of the carrier
liquid acting on the barrier portion of the closure tab 13 in the opening 9. With
reference to Figures 1 and 8, the plug 29 may also be incorporated into a
downwardly projecting side skirt 33 of the closure tab 13 which lies adjacent to
one of the opposing wall members 21 of the cap member 3.
[0030]      With reference to Figure 6, the closure tab 13 may further include an
outwardly projecting shield 31 on the rear wall 17 which at least in part surrounds

                                           8
the tapered protrusion 15 and functions to reduce and potentially eliminate
splashback on a user when closing the closure tab 13. As shown in Figures 6
and 7, the rear wall 17 of the closure tab 13 is preferably at approximately 900
with respect to a top wall 37 of the closure tab 13. The angle of the rear wall 17
with respect to the top wall 37 and the positioning of the hinge axis at
approximately the intersection of the two walls advantageously enables a user to
focus the force of closing the tab 13 on the tapered protrusions 15 engagement
with the opening 9.
[0031]     The hose-end connector 5 may further include a plurality of lugs 35
around a neck portion of the hose-end connector as best shown in Figure 3. The
lugs 35 are preferably evenly spaced around the neck portion and in use function
to hold the hose-end sprayer 1 in the correct orientation with respect to the
attached hose. As shown in Figure 4a, the lugs 35 preferably offset with respect
to a central longitudinal axis of the sprayer 1. As can be seen in Figure 5a, one
of the lugs 35 may be positioned at the bottom of the neck portion.
[0032]     The hose-end sprayer 1 may further include a horizontal brace 37
which extends from each side of the cap member 3 to the hose-end connector 5.
The horizontal brace 37 improves the overall strength of the sprayer 1 when
pressure is applied to the hose-end connector 5.
[0033]     With the exception of the closure member 13, the hose-end sprayer 1
may be of integral construction and advantageously easily assembled by snap-fit
connection with the closure tab 13. The present invention advantageously avoids
the need for O-ring seals and is cost effective to manufacture.

                                           9
CLAIMS:
 1.     A hose-end sprayer for connecting to a container of a liquid based
chemical to be diluted by a stream of carrier liquid, the sprayer including:
        a cap member for securing the sprayer on the container, the cap member
having a liquid chemical outlet for dispensing liquid chemical from the container;
        a hose-end connector for connecting the sprayer to a hose suppling a
carrier liquid, the hose-end connector having an opening for dispensing a stream
of carrier liquid supplied from the hose, and
        a closure tab for blocking passage of the carrier liquid from the opening,
wherein the carrier liquid is blocked by a barrier portion of the closure tab
engaging with the opening.
2.      A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the closure tab is
pivotable relative to the opening, the barrier portion of the closure tab moving into
engagement with the opening as the closure tab is pivoted towards a closed
position in which passage of carrier liquid from the opening is blocked.
3.      A hose-end sprayer as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said
barrier portion of the closure tab which engages with the opening has at least a
free end which is sized and shaped to locate within the opening.
4.      A hose-end sprayer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the barrier portion is formed on a rear wall surface of the closure tab, the rear wall
surface lying substantially perpendicular to the opening when the barrier portion is
in engagement with the opening.
5.      A hose-end sprayer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the barrier portion is a tapered protrusion.

                                          10
6.     A hose-end sprayer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the cap member includes a pair of opposing wall members forming a guide path
therebetween for carrier liquid exiting the opening.
7.     A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 6 wherein the closure tab is
pivotally mounted to the opposing wall members with outwardly projecting hinge
pins of the closure tab engaging with corresponding recesses in the opposing wall
members.
8.     A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 7 wherein the closure tab includes
an outwardly projecting shield on the rear wall surface of the closure tab to
reduce splashback on a user closing the closure tab.
9.     A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 8 wherein the hose-end connector
includes a series of spaced lugs around a neck portion of the hose-end
connector, the spaced lugs in use assisting to prevent angular movement of the
hose-end connector with respect to the hose.
10.    A hose-end sprayer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the closure tab includes a stop member for blocking the chemical liquid outlet
when the closure tab is in a closed position.
11.    A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 10 wherein the stop member is a
stem projecting from an underside of the closure tab.
12.    A hose-end sprayer as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the cap member includes a breather hole and the closure tab includes a plug for
blocking the breather hole when the closure tab is in a closed position.

                                           11
13.   A hose-end sprayer as claimed in claim 11 wherein the plug is an
extension of a side skirt of the closure tab.
                      SEASOL INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD
WATERMARK PATENT AND TRADE MARKS ATTORNEYS
P42099AU00

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
