ABSTRACT
An item of clothing is adapted to be worn against the skin, and comprises at least one panel
adapted to provide targeted compression of at least 20% of the total length of a specific
surface vein in the body, or adapted to provide targeted compression of at least 20% of a
specific plexus of veins, a specific lymphatic plexus, drainage plexus or a collection of
lymphatic vessels. The clothing is useful in a method of reducing recovery time in a human
or other mammal, after a period of activity and in a method of enhancing performance, in
particular sports performance, in a human or other mammal.        It may also improve the
conditioning of the skin and aid lymphatic drainage, and can be used in the treatment of
certain medical conditions.

         1/6
FRONT
               3
             2
Figure 1

                                                1
ANATOMICALLY TARGETED COMPRESSION CLOTHING
DIVISIONAL STATUS
[0001]    The present Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
No 2014208961 filed 21 January 2014 which is a National Phase Patent Application of
PCT/GB2014/050155 filed 24 July 2015 which claims convention from Patent Application
No GB1301116.8 filed on 22 January 2013. The content of each of these applications are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    The present invention relates to items of graduated compression or compression
clothing, for example sportswear, and is particularly useful for enhancing one or more aspects
of sports performance. The clothing also has utility in the medical field.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0003]    Graduated compression hosiery has long been used in the medical industry, for
example to aid in the prevention of deep vein thrombosis and as a means to help manage the
post-thrombotic   syndrome.      In addition, graduated     compression hosiery has known
application for managing varicose veins and as used for everyday wear, it helps in terms of
prevention of tired, swollen and generally uncomfortable legs, and especially with travel and
with pregnancy.
[0004]    Graduated compression clothing has also been trialled to aid with sports recovery
after exercise but at present, the scientific and sports community give mixed reports of its
efficacy for overall performance enhancement.
[0005]    Non-graduated compression clothing is exemplified by forms of specialist swimwear
and athletic wear. It is also used in extreme form by military pilots flying fast jets, whereby
compression of the lower limbs forces blood to circulate maximally to the head, core and
upper body to help prevent blackout.
[0006]    The enhancement of overall sports performance is a worthwhile goal. A very small
increment in sports performance is the difference between losing and winning a race, and thus

                                                 2
a great deal of research is being done in the area. There are many items of clothing on the
market that indirectly enhance performance, for example padded cycling shorts exist that
make the rider more comfortable which therefore, may indirectly increase performance.
Sports clothing can directly improve performance not as a result of the athlete's ability per se,
but because of creating for example, less wind or water resistance through being worn tight
and creating a more aerodynamic profile. On occasion, such materials technology can be
deemed 'unfair' and can result in a ban of its use in professional sport as with for example, all
in-one, full body swim suits for use during previous Olympic Games.
[0007]    There exists a need for an item(s) of clothing or other sportswear that can directly
help enhance individual sports performance and/or sports recovery. This ability to aid in sport
might well be translated to the medical industry, for example, to further improve the
management of varicose veins, the post-thrombotic syndrome, lymphoedema, or quasi
medical conditions such as 'cellulite'.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]    The present invention is based on an understanding of human anatomy, and in
particular angiology.    It is also based on experiments, which have shown that targeted
compression of specific surface veins or specific groups of surface veins when wearing an
item of clothing is achievable.     Furthermore, it is believed that the enhanced delivery of
oxygenated blood to the tissues of a particular area is achievable, and that further indirect
effects may be achieved, such as affecting the temperature of the skin.
[0009]    The average human has approximately five litres of blood circulating around the
whole of the body. At rest, it is estimated that 5% - 8% of this total volume is contained
within the skin and superficial venous system. With exercise and especially with vigorous
exercise, and as a means to help with heat loss, the circulation to the skin can increase and
surface veins can become visibly distended, to increase the total blood volume here up to 10%
of the total blood volume.
[0010]    It is well known in a number of sports, that training at altitude can have a significant,
but temporary effect to enhance overall performance. The physiological principle here is that
at altitude, the concentration of breathable oxygen in the atmosphere is reduced, causing the

                                                3
body to respond with an increased production of a hormone (erythropoietin) which in turn,
leads to the increased production of oxygen carrying red blood cells. This enhanced ability to
get oxygen to muscles and so, enhance athletic ability is retained for some time when the
sportsperson in training, returns to 'ground level'. The same principle is present with the
illegal use of synthetic (erythropoietin - EPO) hormones, taken as 'drugs' to enhance sports
performance. Use of this technique could improve overall performance by an estimated 1%
3%, until the blood level returns to normal - often estimated at 60 - 90 days.
[0011] Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that targeted compression of
specific (named) superficial veins, venous and lymphatic plexuses, as in the present invention,
drains 'surface' blood to the deep circulation and has the effect of keeping the vast majority of
the total circulating blood volume available to the core and major muscle groups in the body
the same end effect to increase available oxygen to the muscles - the same effect as training at
altitude.
[0012] It is important to note that this "targeted" compression has many advantages to
general compression, and it is advantageous to compress specific surface veins in preference
to other areas
[0013] Again, without wishing to be bound by theory, when an item of clothing of the
invention is worn when participating in a particular sports activity, for the duration of that
activity, draining blood from the superficial to deep systems would cause no lasting problem.
The possible effect however, would be an immediate increase in the improvement of overall
performance (by an estimated 3% to 7%). The possible effect on any one event could be
enhanced if the sportsperson was to continually use the device, over a period of time, with
sustained training.
[0014] According to a first aspect, an item of clothing, adapted to be worn against the skin,
and comprising a material adapted to provide a region of general compression or graduated
compression to the body, further comprising at least one panel adapted to provide targeted
compression of at least 20% of the total length of a specific surface vein, wherein the targeted
compression is provided in addition to the general compression or graduated compression,
wherein the region of compression or graduated compression is larger than the panel, and
wherein the panel is adapted to provide a higher level of compression than the material; said

                                                 4
surface vein being selected from the cephalic vein (8) or the basilic vein (9) in the arm; the
short saphenous vein (13) or the long saphenous vein (12) in the leg; the collection of
drainage plexuses in the buttocks (11) and lateral aspect of the hips (14), or the drainage
plexus in the anterior chest wall overlying the pectoral muscles (10), or a combination thereof,
wherein the panel is located on the inside of the item of clothing and comprises a singular or
plurality of protrusion(s) or pads, projecting inwardly towards the skin surface such that they
act on the body, in use, to thereby provide the targeted compression.
[0015]    According to a second aspect, a method of reducing recovery time in a human or
other mammal, after a period of activity, comprises applying an item according to any
preceding claim, to the body, before, during or after the period of activity.
[0016]    According to a third aspect, a method of enhancing overall performance, in particular
sports performance, in a human or other mammal comprises applying an item as defined
above, to the body, before or during the period of increased performance is desired.
[0017]    According to a fourth aspect, a method of protecting the skin and tissues from
trauma, in a human or other mammal, comprises applying an item as defined above, to the
body.
[0018]    According to a fifth aspect, a method of cooling the skin during a period of activity,
in a human or other mammal, comprises applying an item as defined above, to the body,
before, during or after the period of activity.
[0019]    According to a sixth aspect, a method of warming the skin during a period of
activity, in a human or other mammal, comprises applying an item as defined above, to the
body, before, during or after the period of activity.
[0020]    According to a seventh aspect, a method of skin massage and/or a method of
increasing local skin circulation, in a human or other mammal, comprises applying an item as
defined above, to the body.
[0021]    According to an eighth aspect, a method of aiding lymphatic drainage in the skin and
subcutaneous tissue, comprises applying an item as defined above, to the body.

                                                 5
[0022]    According to a ninth aspect, a method of preventing and/or treating a medical
condition, in a human or other mammal, comprises applying an item as defined above, to the
body.
[0023]    According to a tenth aspect, a method wherein the medical condition is a deep vein
thrombosis, the post-thrombotic syndrome, or varicose veins, or lymphoedema, or the quasi
medical condition of "cellulite".
DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0024]    Figure 1 is a front view of an example of a long-sleeved top according to the
invention. The top is shown turned inside-out, i.e.in use the pads project inwardly towards the
skin.
[0025]    Figure 2 is a back view of the top shown in Figure 1.
[0026]    Figure 3 is a front view of an example of a pair of shorts according to the invention.
The shorts are shown turned inside-out, i.e.in use the pads project inwardly towards the skin.
[0027]    Figure 4 is a back view of the shorts shown in Figure 3.
[0028]    Figure 5 is a schematic diagram showing the position of some of the major surface
veins in the body.
[0029]    Figure 6 is a schematic diagram showing areas of the body that can be compressed
using an item of clothing according to the invention.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0030]    According to the invention, an item of clothing is adapted to be worn against the
skin, and comprises a panel or panels adapted to provide targeted compression of at least 20%
of the total length of a named or specific surface vein in the body, or adapted to provide
targeted compression to a specific plexus of veins, a specific lymphatic plexus, a specific
drainage plexus, or a collection of lymphatic vessels.

                                                   6
[0031] The veins of the body are divided into two principal sets, superficial and deep. The
superficial veins are situated close the surface of the body, while the deeper veins are located
further from the surface of the skin, beneath fascial layers, in and around muscle and bone.
Communication between these systems exists.
[0032]    As used herein, the positions of the veins will be described relative to the body, when
standing in the standard anatomical position.         This position is depicted in Figure 6.
"Anatomical position" is a well-used term in the art, and describes the position that the body
is in, when standing facing forward, with arms hanging to the sides and the palms of the hands
facing forward, and the feet also facing forwards.
[0033]    Figure 5 depicts the position of some of the named (specific) surface veins in the
body. For example, the cephalic vein and the basilic vein are found in the arm. The cephalic
vein is on the anterio-lateral aspect of the arm and the basilic vein is on the anterio-medial
aspect of the arm. The superficial veins of the lower extremity are principally the long (or
great) and short (or small) saphenous veins. The long saphenous vein is found along the more
medial aspect of the leg and thigh and stretches almost the entire length of the limb. The short
saphenous vein runs more along the posterio-lateral aspect of the lower leg and terminates at
or near the back of the knee.
[0034] There are also collections (plexuses) of drainage veins for example, in the buttocks
and sides of the hips, and across the anterior chest wall overlying the pectoral muscles, which
drain those regions.
[0035]    In similar fashion, there are known lymphatic plexuses that drain specific superficial
areas on the body. These plexuses in turn, drain in to lymphatic vessels that tend to run
alongside the veins, especially in the lower and upper limbs.
[0036] These named (specific) surface veins, drainage plexuses or lymphatic plexuses, are
situated in the fat layer between the skin and the fascia the covers the muscle. They run
substantially parallel to the surface of the skin.
[0037]    According to the present invention, the panel is adapted to apply targeted

                                                  7
compression of at least 20% of the length of a named surface vein. It will be appreciated that
the "length" of a specific vein lies substantially parallel to the surface of the skin.
[0038]    According to the invention, the panel is adapted to apply targeted compression of at
least 20% of a specific plexus.      It will be appreciated that this can also be expressed as
compression of at least 20% of the skin overlying a specific plexus.
[0039]    An item of clothing of the invention may be an item of sportswear (for any sport), or
an item intended for everyday wear. Included within the invention are items intended to be
worn by professional sports people, as well as items intended to be worn by amateur sports
people. The item of clothing may also be medical clothing, i.e. intended to have a therapeutic
or condition- management effect. It may be available in a variety of different sizes, and for
both sexes.
[0040]    An item of clothing according to the invention may be for example, a t-shirt, long
sleeved top, shorts, leggings, tights, ankle socks, or knee high socks.
[0041]    An item of clothing according to the invention may be a swimsuit or a wetsuit.
[0042]    An item of clothing of the invention is preferably an item of compression clothing. It
may also be an item of graduated compression clothing.
[0043]    A person skilled in the art will be able to make an item of clothing according to the
invention. Having knowledge of basic anatomy, and of materials and methods for providing
graduated or non-graduated compression, will enable the skilled person to carry out the
invention.
[0044]    As used herein, "panel" means, an area, or a region located on the item of clothing.
It is preferably separate from and in addition to the material of the clothing.         It may be
retrofitted onto an item of clothing. The panel may be, for example, elongate, linear, square,
oval or rectangular. The panel should be adapted to cover the vein, lymphatics or plexus that
is to be compressed and the skilled person will be able to choose a suitable shape. The panel is
preferably located on the inside, or on the inner layer of an item of clothing according to the
invention, facing onto the skin. In this context, the word "panel" is a zone or an area within

                                                 8
the clothing.
[0045] The item of clothing comprises a panel, or a plurality of panels, adapted to provide
targeted compression of at least part of one or more of the surface veins, or to a plexus of
veins, a lymphatic plexus or a lymphatic vessel(s), in the body.
[0046] The term "targeted compression" means that the area that is compressed is
compressed preferentially, and to a larger degree than the non-targeted areas. In an item of
clothing that comprises a panel adapted to provide targeted compression, to a region of the
body in use, the area of the body that is directly in contact with the panel will be compressed
preferentially compared to the area of the body that is not directly in contact with the panel.
The area that is not directly in contact with the panel may either not be compressed at all, or
may be compressed to a lesser degree, depending on the type of clothing (i.e. whether or not it
is graduated compression or compression clothing).
[0047] In a preferred embodiment, when the panel(s) is adapted to provide targeted
compression to a surface vein or to surface lymphatics, at least 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90
or up to 100% of the total length of the surface vein is targeted. Preferably, greater than 70%
of the total length of the surface vein is targeted. A person skilled in the art will be able to
pinpoint almost the entire length of these surface veins in the body.
[0048] In a preferred embodiment, when the panel(s) is adapted to provide compression to a
plexus of veins or lymphatics, at least 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or up to 100% of the area
of the skin covering the plexus is targeted. Preferably, greater than 70% of the area of skin
covering the plexus is targeted.
[0049] In a preferred embodiment, the length of the panel(s) is from 5, 10 or 15 cm up to 20,
40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 140 or 150 cm, in one or multiple segments. Preferably, it is from 5 to
100 cm in length. The panel(s) may be continuous or discontinuous. For example, the panel
may be in the form of a continuous pad. Alternatively, the panel may be in the form of an
array of discrete pads/protrusions.
[0050] In a preferred embodiment, the width of the area of targeted compression is from 1,
2, 3, 4, or 5 cm up to 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 cm, preferably 1 to 50 cm.            In a preferred

                                                   9
embodiment, the surface veins are selected for example from the cephalic vein, the basilic
vein, the short saphenous vein and the long saphenous vein. The surface vein(s) may also be
selected for example from the collection of drainage veins (plexuses) in the buttocks and sides
of the hips, or across the anterior chest wall overlying the pectoral muscles, wherein the
position of the drainage veins are described relative to the body when standing in the standard
anatomical position.
[0051] When the panel is adapted to compress a named surface vein, it is not necessary for
the panel to be very wide. However, it is also important that the panel is not made too
narrow. This is because an item of clothing of the invention may not necessarily be custom
made, and the positions of the named surface veins vary to some degree in each individual.
Therefore, the width of a panel of the invention should allow for these normal variances.
[0052]    In a preferred embodiment, a panel or panels is adapted to cover most or the whole of
the buttocks and sides of the hips, in use. Preferably, a panel is adapted to cover the greater
part of the anterior chest wall, at least to the mid-line of the wearer, on both sides of the mid
line (the pectoral regions).
[0053] When the item of clothing is a short-sleeved or long-sleeved t-shirt, it preferably
comprises two panels, each extending the length of each arm, i.e. each arm comprises two
separate panels to provide targeted compression to the cephalic and basilic veins. The top
may also comprise a panel(s) extending across the anterior chest wall, i.e. on the front of the
garment to provide targeted compression to the respective pectoral venous plexuses.
[0054] When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the basilic vein, the
panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of (preferably at least 30, 40, 50 or 60%)
the anterio-medial aspect of the arm (9), in use.
[0055] When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the cephalic vein, the
panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of (preferably at least 30, 40, 50 or 60%)
the anterio-lateral aspect of the arm (8), in use.
[0056] When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the lymphatic
plexuses in the chest, the panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of (preferably at

                                                10
least 30, 40, 50 or 60%) the anterior chest wall (10), in use.
[0057] When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the lymphatic
plexuses in the buttocks, the panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of
(preferably at least 30, 40, 50 or 60%) the buttocks (11) and lateral aspect of the hips (14), in
use.
[0058]    When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the long saphenous
vein, the panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of (preferably at least 30, 40, 50
or 60%) the medial aspect of either the upper (proximal), lower (distal) or the entire leg (12),
in use.
[0059] When an item of clothing is adapted to provide compression to the short saphenous
vein, the panel is preferably adapted to compress at least part of (preferably at least 30, 40, 50
or 60%) the posterio-lateral aspect of the lower leg (13), in use.
[0060]    When the item is a pair of trousers, leggings, or tights, it preferably comprises a
panel on each inner (medial part of the) thigh, extending the length of the thigh, and down the
inner (medial) aspect of each leg, so targeting the long saphenous vein. It preferably also
comprises a panel extending over the buttocks and across to the sides of the hips, so targeting
the respective venous plexuses.     More preferably still, it comprises a panel extending from
towards the back of the knee and down the outer (lateral) aspect of each leg, so targeting the
short saphenous vein.
[0061]    Preferably, the panel(s) is also adapted to compress a lymphatic plexus or plexuses,
or a known principal set of lymphatic vessels.        In practice, a panel(s) that compresses a
surface vein will also compress a number of principal lymphatic vessels, as the lymphatic
vessels commonly run alongside the surface veins especially in the arms and legs.
[0062]    The panel(s) may be of any suitable material, e.g. compressed fluff fibre, silicone,
latex rubber, a memory foam, polyurethane foam, firmer plastic or metal studs, or any
combination thereof. In particular, it may be fashioned from printable polymer formulations
already in use in the clothing industry.

                                                 11
[0063]    Preferably, the pads or protrusions of the panel may be solid or semi-solid, or may be
built up by depositing a suitable plastics or other material, e.g. by ink-jet printing, or by the
application of pre-made transfers.
[0064]    A panel of the invention is preferably formed from screen-printed polymer
(preferably using tested, safe industry compounds), The pads are preferably formulated and
shaped to be comfortable against the skin whilst interacting directly with it.
[0065]    By way of example, the panel may be made up from an array or series of pads
(protrusions), optionally of differing sizes and/or of differing heights, arranged in such a way
as to cover the known sites of surface veins and even more preferably to provide targeted
compression on a background of graduated compression (i.e. the panel is applied/integrated
with an item of graduation compression clothing. One advantage of having such an array of
pads is to allow greater movement of the 'compression zone' on the underlying garment
substrate and to allow some 'breathability' between each pad.
[0066]    Preferably, the item of clothing additionally comprises at least one region adapted to
provide compression, preferably graduated compression, to the body, in use.                 More
preferably, the basic item of clothing is an item of compression or graduated compression
clothing, for example, the material from which the item of clothing is made is inherently
resilient and "stretchy, e.g. Lycra TM (elastane). . More preferably, the area adapted to provide
targeted compression is superimposed on a region of graduated compression, i.e. the targeted
compression is provided on a background of graduated compression. It may also be provided
on a background of standard compression. This may be achieved by the item of clothing
being made from a material adapted to provide compression, for example strong Lycra TM
(elastane) with nylon, with a panel disposed on the inside thereof. The strength or weave of
the Lycra TM may be varied throughout the item to provide graduated compression.
[0067]    Preferably, the graduated compression is such that the greater compression levels are
more distal from the heart and the lesser compression levels are more proximal to the heart,
when the item is in use.
[0068]    Preferably, the area adapted to provide targeted compression comprises a plurality of
protrusions, projecting inwardly towards the skin surface, such that they act on the body, in

                                                12
use.
[0069]    In a preferred embodiment, the heights of the protrusions e.g. pads, are varied in
order to form an overall inward bulge, such that the focused compression is greatest in the
centre of the panel. The location of the panel may be configured such that the centre of the
panel targets the skin overlying the specific surface vein. The heights of the protrusions
however, may be of uniform size.
[0070]    Preferably, the area of targeted compression is adapted also, to help reduce the
magnitude of any force acting externally thereon. This may have the effect to help prevent
damage to the underlying skin, and may help minimise skin surface grazing and subcutaneous
bruising. This may be achieved by varying the thickness of the panel and/or the materials
from which the panel is constructed.
[0071]    In a preferred embodiment, the panel is adapted to provide a region of insulation,
which may help keep the skin surface warm during a period of activity, or in juxtaposition to
this, help to provide a region of skin cooling, which may aid in the dissipation of heat and
sweat. This may be achieved by varying the height and/or separation of the protrusions and/or
the material from which they are made.       Varying the material from which the item is made
may also control the temperature effects on the body. Such temperature effects may also be
influenced by whether the space created around the panel, between the skin and the item of
clothing contains air, or water, or another substance.
[0072]    In a preferred embodiment, the panel may also provide a region of both insulation,
and skin cooling, depending on the surface temperature of the wearer of the item of clothing.
From initial results obtained, it appears that during periods of relatively low activity, the
garment may aid skin cooling, whereas during periods of high activity, the garment may
provide a heating effect to the body. These may either directly or indirectly help enhance
sports performance.
[0073]    Preferably, the protrusions are between 100 microns and 10 mm high.            More
preferably, they are between 1 mm and 5 mm high. Preferably, the protrusions are in the form
of a regular array. Alternatively, the protrusions may be in the form of a discontinuous array
that form overall a suitable shape to effect targeted compression along the anatomically

                                                  13
defined path of a specific superficial vein, or to cover an area that corresponds to a known
venous or lymphatic plexus.
[0074] Preferably, the panel is configured as an inward bulge, such that within the area of
targeted compression, there is a higher level of compression at the centre thereof, relative to
the edges of the panel, i.e. the targeted compression is also sub-graduated.         This may be
achieved by having a graduated height of protrusions within the panel, such that the highest
protrusions are in the centre of the panel, and the lowest protrusions are at the edge of the
panel.
[0075]    There are potentially many other benefits to the invention. One such benefit is that a
panel may also have a "massage" effect on the skin, thus stimulating lymphatic drainage
and/or reducing (the quasi-medical condition known as) cellulite and/or improving local skin
blood flow.
[0076] The invention will now be further described with reference to the accompanying
Figures. The Figures illustrate preferred embodiments of the invention.
[0077]    Figures 1 and 2 illustrate the invention by showing a long-sleeved top (1) according
to the invention. Figure 1 shows the front of the top, and Figure 2 shows the back. The top is
shown inside-out. Each sleeve has two elongate panels on the inner surface, extending the
length of the arm with 'pads' to provide targeted compression.           One panel (2) targets the
basilic vein and another panel (3) targets the cephalic vein.
[0078]    Figures 3 and 4 show a pair of shorts according to the invention. They are shown
inside-out. The shorts comprise a panel on each inner thigh (6), extending along part of the
length of the thigh to target compression to the respective part of the long saphenous vein, and
a panel (7) extending over the buttocks and across to the sides of the hips to target
compression to the respective venous plexuses.          This preferred embodiment is shown in
Figures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows the anterior aspect of a pair of shorts, and Figure 4 shows the
posterior aspect of a pair of shorts, with 'pads' in place to provide targeted compression.
Study
[0079] A panel comprising an array of pads (protrusions) was integrated into an item of

                                                14
graduated compression hosiery. A clinical trial was undertaken and the item of hosiery was
shown to aid in recovery after vigorous exercise and to enhance the delivery of oxygenated
blood to the skin and tissues beneath.
[0080]   The panels were shown to produce a 'focus of compression' on a background of
graduated compression, so as to be able to flatten specific anatomical features in the
subcutaneous tissues (e.g. the long or short saphenous veins in the legs) that results in the re
direction of blood flow to the deep veins which in turn, fully optimises the return of blood
back to the heart and lungs.
[0081]   A panel according to the invention has been applied to compression leggings, shorts
and t-shirts, to target body-wide specific anatomic features so as to enhance overall
performance, recovery, body shape, skin tone and feel, and to aid in the prevention of certain
conditions such as cellulite.
[0082]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
[0083]   It will be understood that the term "comprise" or "include" and any of its derivatives
(e.g. comprises, comprising, include, including) as used in this specification is to be taken to
be inclusive of features to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence of any
additional features unless otherwise stated or implied.

                                                15
CLAIMS
1.        An item of clothing, adapted to be worn against the skin, and comprising a material
adapted to provide a region of general compression or graduated compression to the body,
further comprising at least one panel adapted to provide targeted compression of at least 20%
of the total length of a surface vein, wherein the targeted compression is provided in addition
to the general compression or graduated compression, wherein the region of compression or
graduated compression is larger than the panel, and wherein the panel is adapted to provide a
higher level of compression than the material;
          said surface vein being selected from the cephalic vein (8) or the basilic vein (9) in
the arm; the short saphenous vein (13) or the long saphenous vein (12) in the leg; the
collection of drainage plexuses in the buttocks (11) and lateral aspect of the hips (14), or the
drainage plexus in the anterior chest wall overlying the pectoral muscles (10), or a
combination thereof, wherein the panel is located on the inside of the item of clothing and
comprises a singular or plurality of protrusion(s) or pads, projecting inwardly towards the skin
surface such that they act on the body, in use, to thereby provide the targeted compression.
2.        An item according to claim 1, comprising a plurality of panels.
3.        An item according to any preceding claim, wherein the at least one panel is adapted
to provide targeted compression of at least 60% of the total length of the surface vein.
4.        An item according to claim 3, wherein the material is adapted to provide a region of
graduated compression, and additionally adapted such that the greater compression levels are
located more distal from the heart and the lesser compression levels are located more
proximal to the heart, when the item is in use.
5.        An item according to any preceding claim, wherein the protrusions or pads are
between 100 microns and 10 mm high.
6.        An item according to any preceding claim, wherein the protrusions or pads are in the
form of an overall regular or irregular array.
7.        An item according to any preceding claim, which is adapted to be worn on the upper

                                                 16
half of the body, the item comprising long-sleeves or shorter sleeves, wherein each sleeve has
at least one elongate panel extending the length of the sleeve, and positioned to provide
targeted compression of the anterio-lateral aspect of the arm (8) and/or of the anterio-medial
aspect of the arm (9), preferably wherein each sleeve has two said elongate panels, providing
targeted compression of the anterio-lateral aspect of the arm and the anterio-medial aspect of
the arm, respectively.
8.        An item according to any of claims 1 to 7, adapted to cover the lower body, in use,
and comprising at least one elongate panel adapted to extend along at least part of the medial
aspect of a leg (12), to thereby provide targeted compression of the long saphenous vein,
and/or another elongate panel to extend along at least part of the poterio-lateral aspect of the
leg (13), thereby positioned to provide targeted compression on the short saphenous vein,
and/or another panel adapted to cover the buttocks (11) and lateral aspect of the hips (14),
thereby configured to provide targeted compression of the plexuses of veins in the buttocks
and hips.
9.        A method of reducing recovery time in a human, or other mammal, after a period of
activity, the method comprising applying an item according to any preceding claim, to the
body, before, during, or after the period of activity.
10.       A method of enhancing overall performance, in particular sports performance, in a
human, or other mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims
1 to 8, to the body, before or during the period increased performance is desired.
11.       A method of part-protecting the skin and tissues from trauma, in a human or other
mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims 1 to 8, to the
body.
12.       A method of cooling the skin during a period of activity, in a human or other
mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims 1 to 8, to the
body, before, during or after the period of activity.
13.       A method of warming the skin during a period of activity, in a human or other
mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims 1 to 8, to the

                                                17
body, before, during or after the period of activity.
14.       A method of skin massage and/or a method of increasing local skin circulation, in a
human or other mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims
1 to 8, to the body.
15.       A method of aiding lymphatic drainage in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the
method comprising applying an item according to any of claims 1 to 8, to the body.
16.       A method of preventing and/or treating a medical condition, in a human or other
mammal, the method comprising applying an item according to any of claims 1 to 8 to the
body.
17.       A method according to claim 16, wherein the medical condition is a deep vein
thrombosis, the post-thrombotic syndrome, or varicose veins, or lymphoedema, or the quasi
medical condition of "cellulite".

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                            FRONT
                                            1/6
           2
                                1
                            3

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      BACK
Figure 2
                                             2/6
               2
           3

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3                          FRONT
           6                              3/6
                       7

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  BACK
Figure 4
           6                             4/6
                      7

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                                  5/6

                              6/6
<removed-date>
                                           10
<removed-apn>
                                  8
                              9
               11
                         14
                                      12
                13
              Figure 6

