COUPLING HAVING GASKET POCKET OF VARYING DEPTH
ABSTRACT
A coupling (10) for joining pipe elements in end to end relation, said coupling (10) comprising a
plurality of segments (12, 14) joined end to end surrounding a central axis (16) and defining a
central space (18) for receiving said pipe elements. At least one of said segments (12, 13)
comprising: a pair of projections (28, 30) positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite sides of
said one segment (12, 14) and extending toward said central axis (16), at least a portion of each
of said projections (28, 30) being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of
said projections (28, 30) having an arcuate surface (32) facing said central axis (16), each of said
projections (28, 30) having first and second notches (31) therein respectively positioned at
opposite ends thereof, said arcuate surface (32) having a first radius of curvature (34) measured
from a first center of curvature (35); a back wall (40) extending between said projections (28,
30), said back wall (40) having an arcuate surface (44) facing said central axis (16), said arcuate
surface (44) of said back wall (40) having a second radius of curvature (46) measured from a
second center of curvature (48), said second center of curvature (48) being non-coincident with
said first center of curvature (35) as measured in a plane perpendicular to said central axis (16).

                                                  1
COUPLING HAVING GASKET POCKET OF VARYING DEPTH
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013316023, which
claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/699,628, filed 11 September 2012,
and U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No. 13/794,930, filed 12 March 2013, each of
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] This invention concerns mechanical couplings for joining pipe elements in end to end
relation.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Mechanical couplings for joining pipe elements together end-to-end comprise
interconnectable segments that are positionable circumferentially surrounding the end portions
of co-axially aligned pipe elements. The term "pipe element" is used herein to describe any
pipe-like item or component having a pipe- like form. Pipe elements include pipe stock, pipe
fittings such as elbows, caps and tees as well as fluid control components such as valves,
reducers, strainers, restrictors, pressure regulators and the like.
[0004] Each mechanical coupling segment comprises a housing having projections which
extend radially inwardly from the housing and engage, for example, the outer surfaces of plain
end pipe elements, pipe elements having a shoulder and bead, or circumferential grooves that
extend around each of the pipe elements to be joined. Engagement between the projections and
the pipe elements provides mechanical restraint to the joint and ensures that the pipe elements
remain coupled even under high internal pressure and external forces. The housings define an
annular channel or pocket that receives a ring gasket or seal, typically an elastomeric ring which
engages the ends of each pipe element and cooperates with the segments and the pipe elements
to provide a fluid tight seal. The segments have connection members, typically in the form of
lugs which project outwardly from the housings. The lugs are adapted to receive fasteners, such
as nuts and bolts, which are adjustably tightenable to draw the segments toward one another.

                                                 2
 [0005] The projections on prior art couplings typically have arcuate surfaces with a radius of
curvature that is substantially matched to the radius of curvature of the outer surface of the pipe
element that it is intended to engage. For couplings used with grooved pipe elements, the radii
of curvature of the arcuate surfaces are smaller than the radii of curvature of the outer surfaces
of the pipe elements outside of the grooves so that the projections fit within and engage the
grooves.
 [0006] Methods of securing pipe elements in end to end relation comprise a sequential
installation process when mechanical couplings according to the prior art are used. Typically,
the coupling is received by the technician with the segments bolted together and the ring gasket
captured within the segments' channels. The technician first disassembles the coupling by
unbolting it, removes the ring gasket, lubricates it (if not pre-lubricated) and places it around the
ends of the pipe elements to be joined. Installation of the ring gasket often requires that it be
lubricated and stretched to accommodate the pipe elements. With the ring gasket in place on
both pipe elements, the segments are then placed one at a time straddling the ends of the pipe
elements and capturing the ring gasket against them. During placement, the segments engage the
gasket, the projections are aligned with the grooves, the bolts are inserted through the lugs, the
nuts are threaded onto the bolts and tightened, drawing the coupling segments toward one
another, compressing the gasket and engaging the projections within the grooves.
 [0007] As evident from the previous description, installation of mechanical pipe couplings
according to the prior art requires that the technician typically handle at least seven individual
piece parts (and more when the coupling has more than two segments), and must totally
disassemble and reassemble the coupling. Significant time, effort and expense would be saved if
the technician could install a mechanical pipe coupling without first totally disassembling it and
then reassembling it, piece by piece.
 [0008] Figure 1 shows a coupling 11 having coupling segments 13 and 15. The segments are
joined end to end by connection members 17 and 19, the connection members including
threaded fasteners 21. The segments 13 and 15 are shown supported in spaced relation from one
another on the outer surface of the ring gasket 23 captured between the segments. This
configuration is possible because the circumference of the outer surface of an undeformed ring
gasket 23 is greater than the sum of the circumferences of the surfaces on the segments with
which the ring gasket outer surface interfaces. When the segments are supported in this manner

                                                   3
it is possible to insert pipe elements into the central space 25 between the segments without
disassembling the coupling. However, there are some drawbacks to this solution to the problem
of installing mechanical couplings. Note in particular that the ring gasket 23 is distorted into an
oval shape by the geometry of a close-fitting segment riding on at least a portion of the ring
gasket before the gasket has properly seated in the gasket pocket of the segment. If the degree of
distortion of the ring gasket is uncontrolled, the oval shape can result in pinching and damage to
the gasket in the region between the connection members 17 and 19 of the segments 13 and 15.
[0009] There is clearly a need for a pipe coupling with which the distortion of the ring seal may
be controlled so as to avoid damage to the ring seal with which it is used, yet will also allow
pipe elements to be inserted reliably without disassembly of the coupling.
Object of the Invention
[0009a] It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy the above need.
Summary
[0010] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a coupling for joining pipe elements in
end to end relation, said coupling comprising:
         a plurality of segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a
central space for receiving said pipe elements, at least one of said segments comprising:
               a pair of projections positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite sides of said
         one segment and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of said
         projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of said
         projections having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, each of said projections
         having first and second notches therein respectively positioned at opposite ends thereof,
         said arcuate surface having a first radius of curvature measured from a first center of
         curvature;
               a back wall extending between said projections, said back wall having an arcuate
         surface facing said central axis, said arcuate surface of said back wall having a second
         radius of curvature measured from a second center of curvature, said second center of
         curvature being non-coincident with said first center of curvature as measured in a plane
         perpendicular to said central axis.

                                                  4
[0011] In one embodiment, the first center of curvature is closer to the arcuate surface of the
back wall than the second center of curvature when measured to a point on the arcuate surface of
the back wall that is collinear with the first and second centers of curvature. In another
embodiment, the first and second centers of curvature and the point on the back wall are
collinear along a first line oriented perpendicular to a second line extending between a first end
of the one segment and a second end of the one segment.
[0012] The second center of curvature may be offset from the first center of curvature at a
distance from about 0.01 inches to about 0.1 inches, or at a distance of about 0.02 inches to
about 0.04 inches, or at a distance of about 0.03 inches.
[0013] In a particular example embodiment of the coupling, only a first and a second of the
segments are joined end to end surrounding the central axis. In this example, the coupling
further comprises a ring gasket positioned between the first and second segments. The ring
gasket supports the first and second segments in spaced apart relation sufficient to insert the pipe
elements between the segments and may have a shape which is distorted into an oval, or which
is substantially undistorted and presents a round shape. The degree of distortion of the ring
gasket is determined by the offset of the first and second centers of curvature.
[0014] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a coupling for joining pipe elements in
end to end relation, said coupling comprising:
        first and second segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a
central space for receiving said pipe elements, each one of said segments comprising:
                first and second projections, each positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite
        sides of said segment and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of
        said projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of
        said projections having first and second notches therein respectively positioned at
        opposite ends thereof, each said projection having an arcuate surface facing said central
        axis, each said arcuate surface having a first radius of curvature measured from a first
        center of curvature;
                a back wall extending between said first and second projections, said back wall
        having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, said arcuate surface of said back wall
        having a second radius of curvature measured from a second center of curvature, said
        second center of curvature being non-coincident with said first centers of curvature as
        measured in a plane perpendicular to said central axis.

                                                    5
[0015] There is also disclosed herein a coupling for joining pipe elements in end to end relation,
said coupling comprising:
         a plurality of segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a
central space for receiving said pipe elements, at least one of said segments defining an
eccentrically shaped gasket pocket, said at least one segment comprising:
                a pair of projections positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite sides of said
         one segment and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of said
         projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, at least one of
         said projections having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, said at least one
         projection having at least one notch therein positioned at an end thereof;
                a back wall extending between said projections and eccentric to said at least one
         projection as manifest by said back wall having an arcuate surface facing said central
         axis, a distance between said arcuate surface of said back wall and said arcuate surface of
         said at least one projection, as measured along a radially projecting line extending from
         said central axis, being a first value at a first point midway between said ends of said at
         least one segment, said distance between said arcuate surface of said back wall and said
         arcuate surface of said at least one projection being a second value at a second point
         proximate to at least one of said ends of said at least one segment, and said distance
         between said arcuate surface of said back wall and said arcuate surface of said at least
         one projection being a third value at a third point proximate to at least another one of
         said ends of said at least one segment, said first value being less than said second value
         and said third value; and
                a ring gasket positioned within said central space, said ring gasket having an outer
         circumference having a length greater than the sum of the lengths of said arcuate
         surfaces of said back walls of said segments, said ring gasket supporting at least two of
         said segments in spaced apart relation, said eccentrically shaped gasket pocket
         controlling a degree of distortion of said ring gasket out of round.
[0016] The distance between the arcuate surface of the back wall and the arcuate surface of the
at least one projection may be a minimum at the first point midway between the ends of the at
least one segment, and a maximum at the second point. The second point may be positioned at
the at least one end of the at least one segment. The distance between the arcuate surface of the
back wall and the arcuate surface of the at least one projection at a third point positioned at
another of the ends of the at least one segment may be a third value approximately equal to the
second value.

                                                  6
[0017] In a particular example embodiment, the arcuate surface of the back wall comprises a
first portion having a curved surface, and a second portion having a curved surface. The second
portion is positioned proximate to the at least one end of the at least one segment. Any point on
the second portion is farther from said central axis than any point on said first portion. The
arcuate surface of the back wall may further comprise a third portion having a curved surface.
The third portion is positioned proximate to another of the ends of the at least one segment. Any
point on the third portion is farther from said central axis that any point on said first portion.
[0018] The second portion of the arcuate surface of the back wall may subtend an angle from
about 5' to about 800, or from about 5' to about 45'. The third portion of the arcuate surface of
the back wall may subtend an angle from about 5' to about 80', or from about 5' to about 45'.
[00 19] There is also disclosed herein a coupling for joining pipe elements in end to end relation,
said coupling comprising:
         first and second segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a
central space for receiving said pipe elements, each one of said segments comprising:
                 first and second projections, each positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite
sides of said segments and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of said
projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of said
projections having first and second notches therein positioned respectively at opposite ends
thereof, each of said projections having an arcuate surface facing said central axis;
                 a back wall extending between said first and second projections, said back wall
having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, a distance between said arcuate surface of
said back wall and said arcuate surfaces of said projections, as measured along a radially
projecting line extending from said central axis, being a first value at a point midway between
said ends of said segments, and a second value at a point proximate to one end of each of said
segments, and a third value at a point proximate to an opposite end of each of said segments,
said first value being less than said second value and said third value; and
                 a ring gasket positioned within said central space, said ring gasket having an
outer circumference having a length greater than the sum of the lengths of said arcuate surfaces
of said back walls of said first and second segments, said ring gasket supporting said first and
second segments in spaced apart relation, said eccentrically shaped gasket pocket controlling a
degree of distortion of said ring gasket out of round.

                                                  7
[001 9a] In another example embodiment of a coupling, the arcuate surface of the back wall
comprises a first portion having a first radius of curvature, and a second portion having an
infinite radius of curvature. The second portion is positioned proximate to the at least one end of
the at least one segment. Any point on the second portion is farther from the central axis than
any point on the first portion. The arcuate surface of the back wall may further comprise a third
portion having an infinite radius of curvature. Any point on the third portion is farther from the
central axis than any point on the first portion. The third portion is positioned proximate to
another of the ends of the at least one segment. The second portion of the arcuate surface of the
back wall may subtend an angle from about 50 to about 450, or from about 50 to about 300. The
third portion of the arcuate surface of the back wall may subtend an angle from about 5' to
about 450, or from about 50 to about 300. In another example embodiment, the arcuate surface of
the back wall may further comprise a plurality of the second portions of the arcuate surface of
the back wall, each of the second portions having infinite radii of curvature. Additionally, the
arcuate surface of the back wall may further comprise a plurality of the third portions of the
arcuate surface of the back wall, each having an infinite radius of curvature. The third portions
of the arcuate surfaces of the back wall are positioned proximate to another of the ends of the at
least one segment. The plurality of second portions of the arcuate surface of the back wall may
subtend an angle from about 50 to about 800, or from about 50 to about 300. The plurality of
third portions of the arcuate surface of the back wall may subtend an angle from about 50 to
about 800, or from about 50 to about 300.
[0019b] In one example embodiment, a coupling according to an embodiment may comprise
only a first and a second of the segments joined end to end surrounding the central axis. The
coupling may further comprise a ring gasket positioned between the first and second segments.
The ring gasket supports the first and second segments in spaced apart relation sufficient to
insert the pipe elements between the segments. The ring gasket may have an oval shape or the
ring gasket may have a round shape.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0020] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
         Figure 1 is an elevational view of an example mechanical pipe coupling according to the
invention;

                                                 8
        Figure 2 is an elevational view of an example mechanical pipe coupling according to the
invention;
        Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of a segment of an example mechanical pipe coupling
according to the invention;
        Figure 4 is a cross sectional view of the segment of an example mechanical pipe
coupling taken at line 4-4 of Figure 3;
        Figures 5 and 5A are cross sectional views of segments of example mechanical pipe
couplings according to the invention;
        Figures 6 and 6A are cross sectional views of segments of example mechanical pipe
couplings according to the invention; and
        Figure 7 shows a partial cross sectional view of an example segment on an enlarged
scale.

                                          9
Detailed Description
[0021]       Figure 2 shows an example embodiment of a coupling 10 according to the
invention. Coupling 10 comprises segments 12 and 14 that are joined to one another
end to end surrounding a central axis 16 and defining a central space 18. Central
space 18 receives the pipe elements to be joined in end to end relation, the
longitudinal axis of the pipe elements substantially aligning with the central axis 16.
Each of the segments 12 and 14 have connection members 20 and 22 at each end. In
this example, the connection members comprise a lug 24 which projects from the
segment and receives a threaded fastener 26. Fasteners 26 are adjustably tightenable
so as to draw the segments 12 and 14 toward one another and the central axis 16 to
engage the pipe elements and form the joint. Segments 12 and 14 are pre-assembled
at the factory in spaced relation sufficient to permit insertion of the pipe elements into
the central space 18 without disassembling the coupling.
[0022]       As shown in cross section in Figure 4, each segment (segment 12 being
shown) has a pair of projections 28 and 30 positioned in spaced apart relation on
opposite sides of the segment. The projections extend toward the central axis 16, and
at least a portion of each projection is engageable with a respective pipe element to
provide mechanical engagement and hold the pipe elements in end to end relation.
The projections 28 and 30 engage the outer surface of the pipe elements, which may
be a plain surface, a surface forming a circumferential groove, or a surface having a
raised shoulder, or a shoulder and bead for example. The projections may have one
or more notches 31 (see Figures 2, 2A, 3A, 5A and 6A) positioned adjacent to the
connection members 20 and 22 to facilitate insertion of the pipe elements into the
central space 18 as described in detail below. As shown in Figures 3 and 4, each
projection has an arcuate surface 32 facing central axis 16. The arcuate surface 32 of
each projection has a radius of curvature 34 measured from a center of curvature 35
of the arcuate surface.

                                         10
[0023]      The segments 12 and 14 also have sidewalls 36 and 38 from which the
projections 28 and 30 extend. The sidewalls 36 and 38 are attached to a back wall 40,
and together the sidewalls and back wall define a pocket 42. Pocket 42 receives a
ring gasket 43 (Figure 4) positioned between the segments 12 and 14 (see Figure 2) to
ensure a fluid-tight seal. In this example coupling it is the ring gasket which supports
the segments 12 and 14 in spaced apart relation when assembled. Back wall 40
extends between projections 28 and 30 and, as shown in Figures 3 and 4, has an
arcuate surface 44 which faces the central axis 16. The back wall's arcuate surface 44
has a radius of curvature 46 measured from a center of curvature 48 of the back wall
arcuate surface. When viewed or measured in the plane 50 oriented perpendicular to
the central axis 16 of the coupling 10, the center of curvature 35 of the arcuate
surfaces 32 on projections 28 and 30 are non-coincident with the center of curvature
48 of the arcuate surface 44 of the back wall 40. In the example shown in Figure 3,
the centers of curvature 35 are closer to the arcuate surface of the back wall 40 than
the center of curvature 48 of the back wall's arcuate surface 44 when measured to a
point 52 on the back wall's arcuate surface 48 that is collinear with the centers of
curvature 35 and 48, as shown by line segment 54. As further shown in Figure 3, the
centers of curvature 35 and 48 and point 52 on the back wall arcuate surface 44 are
collinear along line 54, which is oriented perpendicular to a second line 55 extending
between the ends 56 and 58 of the segments 12 and 14 (only segment 12 being
shown).
[0024]      The offset distance 60 between the center of curvature 35 and the center of
curvature 48 results in an eccentrically shaped gasket pocket 42 of varying depth
wherein the arcuate surface 44 of the back wall extends further outwardly from a true
circle as one proceeds along the back wall from the middle of the segment 12 to either
end 56 or 58. If the depth 62 of the pocket 42, measured from the projection's
arcuate surface 32 to the back wall's arcuate surface 44, is the value "h" at the middle
of the segment, then the depth 62a at either end 56, 58 of the segment 12 is

                                         11
approximately "h" (62) + offset distance 60. The depth 62 may be defined as the
distance between the arcuate surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate surface
44 of the back wall 40, measured along a radially projecting line extending from the
central axis 16. In this example embodiment, this distance, depth 62, varies from a
value of h at a point between the ends 56 and 58 of the segment 12, and a greater
value, h+offset, at points at each end of the segment. This increased depth, located at
the ends of the segments, provides more outwardly radial room for the gasket at the
ends of the segments, which, due to the geometry of the gasket 43 and the gasket
pocket 42, would normally contact the gasket and distort it out of round as shown in
Figure 1. However, because the gasket pocket 42 is eccentric, with its eccentricity of
h+ offset distance a maximum at the ends 56 and 58 of the segments 12 and 14 (and a
minimum of "h" midway between the ends), contact between arcuate surface 44 of
the back wall 40 and the outer surface 64 of the ring gasket 43 can be controlled and
thereby control the degree of distortion of the ring gasket out of round when the
coupling 10 is factory assembled with the segments 12 and 14 supported in spaced
relation on the outer surface 64 of the ring gasket 43 so that pipe elements may be
inserted into the central space 18 without disassembling the coupling. It is possible to
support segment 12 and 14 in spaced relation because the circumference of the outer
surface 64 of an undeformed ring gasket 43 is greater than the sum of the
circumferences of the arcuate surfaces 44 on the segments 12 and 14 with which the
ring gasket outer surface 64 interfaces.   The degree of distortion of ring gasket 43
may range from substantially no distortion, providing the round shape shown in
Figure 2, to an oval shape as shown for ring gasket 23 in Figure 1. As the offset
distance 60 increases, the degree of ovality of the ring gasket decreases._While it is
possible to eliminate substantially all of the distortion of the ring gasket, for practical
designs it is sometimes advantageous to provide a controlled degree of distortion.
Advantage is obtained when the degree of distortion is such that pinching of the ring
gasket is avoided while maintaining enough eccentricity such that the ring gasket
grips one of the pipe ends and holds it on the pipe element when it is inserted into the

                                         12
central space. This allows convenient assembly of the pipe joint as the technician
does not need to hold the coupling and first pipe element together while he maneuvers
the second pipe element into engagement with the-coupling. Offset distances 60 of
about 0.01 inches to about 0.1 inches are found practical for couplings suited for pipe
elements having a nominal outer diameter of ten inches or less. The offset distance
may further range from about 0.02 inches to about 0.04 inches, with an offset distance
of about 0.03 inches being advantageous for some combinations of couplings and
pipe elements.
[0025]      Additional examples of notches 31 in projections 28 and 30 are shown to
good effect in Figures 2A and 3A. Notches such as 31 provide additional clearance
between the pipe elements and the coupling segments 12 and 14 thereby permitting
insertion of the pipe elements into a pre-assembled coupling 10 while allowing the
segments to be closer together in the preassembled, installation ready state. The
notches allow shorter fasteners to be used for a more compact and practical coupling
assembly. A notch 31 may have a length from about 5% to about 30% of the total
length of the arcuate surfaces 32 and is advantageously positioned at one or both ends
of the projections 28 and 30 adjacent to the connection members 20 and 22. When
used with couplings 10 having gasket pockets of varying depth, notches 31 are
effective when used with both rigid (Figure 2) and flexible type couplings (Figure 3).
The features differentiating rigid and flexibe couplings are described in detail below.
[0026]       Figures 5, 5A, 6 and 6A illustrate respective segments 66 and 68 wherein
the distance 62 between the arcuate surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate
surface 44 of back wall 40, as measured along a radially projecting line 70 extending
from the central axis 16 is smaller at a point 72 midway between the ends 56 and 58
of the segments 66 and 68 than at a point 74 proximate to one of the ends.
[0027]      For segment 66, shown in Figure 5, the arcuate surface 44 of the back wall
40 comprises a first surface portion 76 which has a first radius of curvature 78, and a
second surface portion 80, positioned proximate to end 56 of segment 66, which has a

                                         13
second radius of curvature 82. Any point on the second surface portion 80 is farther
from the central axis 16 than any point on the first portion 78. Thus the distance 62
between the arcuate surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate surface 44 of back
wall 40 is smaller over the angle 84 subtended by the first surface portion 76 than
over the angle 86 subtended by the second surface portion 80. Second surface portion
80 may subtend an angle 86 from about 50 to about 800. A subtended angle from
about 50 to about 450 is also practical.
[0028]      In this example the arcuate surface 44 further comprises a third surface
portion 88 located at the opposite end 58 of the segment 66. Third surface portion 88
has a radius of curvature 90. (The respective radii of curvature 82 and 90 of the
second surface portion 80 and the third surface portion 88 may be equal to one
another.) Any point on the third surface portion 88 is farther from the central axis 16
than any point on the first portion 78. Thus the distance 62 between the arcuate
surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate surface 44 of back wall 40 is smaller
over the angle 84 subtended by the first surface portion 76 than over the angle 92
subtended by the third surface portion 88. Third surface portion 88 may subtend an
angle 92 from about 50 to about 80'. A subtended angle from about 5' to about 45' is
also practical.
[0029]      Note that the distances 62 and differences between the radii of curvature
are exaggerated for clarity. While the geometrical relationships between the arcuate
surfaces 32 and 44 are described for one projection 30 on one segment 66, it is
understood that each segment comprising a coupling may have two such projections
on opposite sides of the segment, as shown in Figure 4, and that the geometrical
relation between the arcuate surfaces on both projections and the arcuate surface of
the back wall may be the same. As shown in Figure 5A, notches 31, as described
above, may also be used with segments 66 to facilitate insertion of pipe elements into
the coupling assembly when in the preassembled state by providing clearance

                                         14
between the pipe elements and the ends of the segments. The notches also provide a
more compact and practical coupling assembly as previously observed.
[0030]      For segment 68, shown in Figure 6, the arcuate surface 44 of the back wall
40 comprises a first surface portion 94 which has a first radius of curvature 96, and a
second surface portion 98, positioned proximate to end 56 of segment 66. The second
surface portion 98 has an infinite radius of curvature, meaning that the second surface
portion is a flat facet 100. The facet 100 is arranged such that the distance 62
between the arcuate surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate surface 44 of back
wall 40 is smaller over the angle 102 subtended by the first surface portion 94 than
over the angle 104 subtended by the second surface portion 98, that being the facet
100. Second surface portion 98 may subtend an angle 104 from about 5' to about
450. A subtended angle from about 50 to about 300 is also practical.
[0031]      In this example the arcuate surface 44 further comprises a third surface
portion 106 located at the opposite end 58 of the segment 68. In this example the
third surface portion 106 also has an infinite radius of curvature, thereby forming a
facet 108. The facet 108 is arranged such that the distance 62 between the arcuate
surface 32 of the projection 30 and the arcuate surface 44 of back wall 40 is smaller
over the angle 102 subtended by the first surface portion 94 than over the angle 110
subtended by the third surface portion 106. Third surface portion 88 may subtend an
angle 110 from about 50 to about 45'. A subtended angle from about 50 to about 300
is also practical. While the second and third surface portions 98 and 106 of the
segment 68 are each shown as formed of single facets 100 and 108, it is advantageous
to form a plurality of facets proximate each end of the segment 68. An example of
this multifaceted structure is shown on an enlarged scale in Figure 7, wherein the
surface 44 of segment 68 is comprised of a plurality of second surface portions 98a,
98b, 98c, each having an infinite radius of curvature and forming respective facets
100a, 100b, 100c. The plurality of surface portions 98a, 98b, 98c may subtend an

                                          15
angle 112 from about 50 to about 800. A subtended angle from about 50 to about 300
is also practical.
[0032]       Note that the distances 62 are exaggerated for clarity. While the
geometrical relationships between the arcuate surfaces 32 and 44 are described for
one projection 30 on one segment 68, it is understood that each segment comprising a
coupling may have two such projections on opposite sides of the segment, as shown
in Figure 4, and that the geometrical relation between the arcuate surfaces on both
projections and the arcuate surface of the back wall may be the same. As shown in
Figure 6A, notches 31, as described above, may also be used with segments 68 to
facilitate insertion of pipe elements into the coupling assembly when in the
preassembled state by providing clearance between the pipe elements and the ends of
the segments. The notches also provide a more compact and practical coupling
assembly as previously observed.
[0033]       The gasket pocket of varying depth, which allows the degree of distortion
of the ring gasket to be controlled, provides several advantages over prior art coupling
segments having pockets where the depth is a constant. When the coupling is factory
assembled the gasket may have a controlled shape between oval and round. Choosing
a configuration wherein the ring gasket has less distortion means that when a pipe
element is inserted into the central space it will engage the pipe stop within the gasket
more uniformly, thereby promoting proper seating of the pipe elements in the
coupling. Furthermore, for a ring gasket with less distortion there is less likelihood of
pinching the gasket between the ends of the coupling segments. However, inducing
some reasonable degree of distortion to the shape of the ring gasket allows it to grip
and hold onto the pipe element during assembly, which is advantageous for the
technician.
[0034]       The gasket pocket of varying depth described above and claimed herein is
applicable to both rigid and flexible couplings. Rigid couplings are advantageously
used with circumferentially grooved pipe elements. The segments of rigid couplings

                                           16
have interfacing surfaces which have opposite angular orientations with respect to
one another. When the fasteners joining such segments together are tightened, the
interfacing surfaces on one segment contact their counterpart surfaces on the mating
segment and the segments are forced to rotate about a vertical axis in opposite
directions relatively to one another. This causes the projections to engage the
sidewalls of the circumferential groove in the pipe elements and lock them in place so
as to provide significant resistance to external bending forces and torque applied to
the joint, thereby limiting the relative deflections of the pipe elements. Examples of
rigid couplings are shown herein in Figures 1, 2, 5 and 6. Rigid couplings are
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,611,839 and U.S. Patent No. 4,639,020, both patents
being hereby incorporated by reference.
[0035]       In a flexible coupling the interfacing surfaces between the segments are
not angled and when they engage one another they do not cause any relative rotation
of the segments. Thus the projections do not engage the sidewalls of the
circumferential groove due to twisting action of the segments which results in a more
flexible joint, where the relative deflections of the pipe elements in bending,
torsionally and axially, are greater than for the rigid joint (described above) for the
same applied loads. Figure 3 shows an example flexible coupling.
[0036]       The gasket pocket of varying depth described above and claimed herein is
also applicable to adapter couplings which permit pipe elements of different nominal
sizes to be coupled in end to end relation. In adapter couplings each segment has
projections of different radii of curvature matched to fit and engage a different size
pipe element. Examples of adapter couplings used to couple grooved pipe elements
are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,680,894 and U.S. Patent No. 4,896,902, both
patents being hereby incorporated by reference herein.
[0037]       Pipe couplings according to the invention permit non-deforming couplings
to be used as installation ready couplings and require less energy to install because
there is no significant energy expended to deform the couplings when effecting the

                                        17
pipe joint. This corresponds to lower fatigue when manually forming joints with
hand tools as well as fewer battery changes when cordless electric power tools are
used.

                                                  18
CLAIMS
1.    A coupling for joining pipe elements in end to end relation, said coupling comprising:
       a plurality of segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a central
space for receiving said pipe elements, at least one of said segments comprising:
             a pair of projections positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite sides of said one
       segment and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of said
      projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of said
      projections having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, each of said projections
      having first and second notches therein respectively positioned at opposite ends thereof,
       said arcuate surface having a first radius of curvature measured from a first center of
       curvature;
             a back wall extending between said projections, said back wall having an arcuate
       surface facing said central axis, said arcuate surface of said back wall having a second
      radius of curvature measured from a second center of curvature, said second center of
       curvature being non-coincident with said first center of curvature as measured in a plane
      perpendicular to said central axis.
2.     The coupling according to claim 1, wherein said first center of curvature is closer to said
arcuate surface of said back wall than said second center of curvature when measured to a point
on said arcuate surface of said back wall that is collinear with said first and second centers of
curvature.
3.     The coupling according to claim 2, wherein said first and second centers of curvature and
said point on said back wall are collinear along a first line oriented perpendicular to a second line
extending between a first end of said one segment and a second end of said one segment.
4.     The coupling according to claim 3, wherein said second center of curvature is offset from
said first center of curvature at a distance from 0.01 inches (0.25 mm) to 0.1 inches (2.5 mm).
5.     The coupling according to claim 3, wherein said second center of curvature is offset from
said first center of curvature at a distance of 0.02 inches (0.51 mm) to 0.04 inches (1.02 mm).
6.     The coupling according to claim 3, wherein said second center of curvature is offset from
said first center of curvature at a distance of 0.03 inches (0.76 mm).

                                                 19
7.     The coupling according to claim 3, comprising only a first and a second of said segments
joined end to end surrounding said central axis, said coupling further comprising a ring gasket
positioned between said first and second segments, said ring gasket having an outer
circumference having a length greater than the sum of the lengths of said arcuate surfaces of said
back walls of said first and second segments, said ring gasket supporting said first and second
segments in spaced apart relation.
 8.   A coupling for joining pipe elements in end to end relation, said coupling comprising:
       first and second segments joined end to end surrounding a central axis and defining a
central space for receiving said pipe elements, each one of said segments comprising:
              first and second projections, each positioned in spaced apart relation on opposite
       sides of said segment and extending toward said central axis, at least a portion of each of
       said projections being engageable with a respective one of said pipe elements, each of said
      projections having first and second notches therein respectively positioned at opposite ends
      thereof, each said projection having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, each said
       arcuate surface having a first radius of curvature measured from a first center of curvature;
              a back wall extending between said first and second projections, said back wall
      having an arcuate surface facing said central axis, said arcuate surface of said back wall
      having a second radius of curvature measured from a second center of curvature, said
       second center of curvature being non-coincident with said first centers of curvature as
      measured in a plane perpendicular to said central axis.
9.     The coupling according to claim 8, wherein, for each of said projections on each of said
segments as measured in said plane, said first center of curvature is closer to said arcuate surface
of said back wall than said second center of curvature when measured to a point on said arcuate
surface of said back wall that is collinear with said first and second centers of curvature.
 10.   The coupling according to claim 9, wherein, for said first segment and for each of said
projections thereon, said first and second centers of curvature and said point on said back wall
are collinear along a first line oriented perpendicular to a second line extending between a first
end of said first segment and a second end of said first segment.
 11.   The coupling according to claim 10, wherein, for said second segment and for each of said
projections thereon, said first and second centers of curvature and said point on said back wall

                                                 20
are collinear along a first line oriented perpendicular to a second line extending between a first
end of said second segment and a second end of said second segment.
12.    The coupling according to claim 11, wherein, for each of said projections on each of said
segments, said second center of curvature is offset from said first center of curvature at a
distance from 0.01 inches (0.25mm) to 0.1 inches (2.5 mm).
13.    The coupling according to claim 11, wherein, for each of said projections on each of said
segments, said second center of curvature is offset from said first center of curvature at a
distance of 0.02 inches (0.51 mm) to 0.04 inches (1.02 mm).
14.    The coupling according to claim 11, wherein, for each of said projections on each of said
segments, said second center of curvature is offset from said first center of curvature at a
distance of 0.03 inches (0.76 mm).
15.    The coupling according to claim 11, further comprising a ring gasket positioned between
said first and second segments, said ring gasket supporting said first and second segments in
spaced apart relation sufficient to insert said pipe elements between said segments.
16.    The coupling according to claim 7 or 15, wherein said ring gasket has an oval shape.
17.    The coupling according to claim 7 or 15, wherein said ring gasket has a round shape.
                                          Victaulic Company
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/8

