   Abstract
   A gaming system comprising a display 54, an object
   selector 620 arranged to select at least one object to be
 5 placed in each container of a set of a plurality of
   containers displayed on the display 54 and an outcome
   generator 660 arranged to determine a game outcome based
   on at least one characteristic of the object or objects
   placed in at least part of each container of the set of
10 containers.

                                                  5/9
                                                                             610
                                                                RNG
                                                                                                  64
                                                                             620                  641
                                                       OBJECT SELECTOR                    DAT
                                                                                                  642
                                                                                              11630
                                                       CONTAINER FILLER               CONTAINER
                                54
                    DISPLAY
                                                                                               -- 644
                                                                             66064
                                                                                          GAME
                                                             OUTCOME                 INSTRUCTION
                                        60                 GENERATOR                 &PAY TABLE
                                                                                          DATA
      561           563A         563B         563C         563D         563E
              BET 1       BET 2         BET 3        BET 4        BET 5
             CREDIT      CREDITS      CREDITS      CREDITS      CREDITS
RESERVE        PER         PER           PER          PER          PER
              TUBE         TUBE         TUBE         TUBE         TUBE
              PLAY         PLAY         PLAY         PLAY         PLAY                        DROP
              TUBE        TUBES        TUBES        TUBES        TUBES          GAME
COLLECT          1          1&2           1-3         1-4           1-5
                (1           (5          (10          (20          (25
             CREDIT)    CREDITS)      CREDITS)     CREDITS)    CREDITS)
      562           564A         564B         564C         564D         564E          565           566
        Figure 6                          56

   Title
              A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2013205715,
10 which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2009202073, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2007229326. The
   disclosure of each of these applications is incorporated
   herein by reference.
15
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a gaming system, a game
   controller and a method of gaming.
20
   Background to the Invention
   Gaming systems are required to maintain player interest.
   There is a continuing need to develop new gaming systems
25 in order to provide interest for players.
   In some jurisdictions, regulations prohibit electronic
   gaming machines that employ a spinning reel and therefore
   it is desirable to provide a type of gaming machine which
30 is not reliant on a spinning wheel.
   Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
35 comprising:
             a display;
             an object selector arranged to select a plurality
   of objects for each container to fill   each container of a
   set of a plurality of containers displayed on the display;
40           a credit selector arranged to select a number of
   credits to be wagered for each container of the plurality

                              -2
   of containers; and
             an outcome generator arranged to determine a game
   outcome based on at least one characteristic of at least
   one object of each container of the set of containers,
 5 wherein a game outcome determined to be a winning outcome
   is associated with a prize, the prize being calculated at
   least in part based on the number of credits wagered on
   each container.
10 In an embodiment, the object selector is arranged to
   select three objects for each of five containers.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system further comprises a
   container selector operable by a player to select at least
15 one container of the set of containers,
             the outcome generator arranged to determine a
   game outcome based on all objects of each selected
   container and at least based on objects in a designated
   part of each non-selected container.
20
   In an embodiment, at least one other type of object may be
   included in the game outcome determination of the outcome
   generator even though it is not in the designated part of
   the container.
25
   In an embodiment, an at least one other type of object is
   a feature object associated with free games.
   In an embodiment, the containers are selected from the
30 group comprising: tubes, tubs, baskets, and boxes.
   In an embodiment, the objects are selected from the group
   comprising balls discs, dice, dominoes, cards, blocks, and
   balloons.
35
   In an embodiment, different objects are distinguishable
   from one another by shape, colour, or marking.
   In an embodiment, there are a plurality of sets of
40 containers.

                               - 3
   In an embodiment, one or more containers is in more than
   one set of containers.
   In a second aspect the invention provides a method of
 5 gaming in a gaming system comprising:
             displaying a set of containers on a display;
              selecting a plurality of objects to fill each
   container;
              receiving a selection of a number of credits to
10 be wagered for each container of the plurality of
   containers;
             determining a game outcome based on at least one
   characteristic of at least one object of each container of
   the set of containers; and
15           upon determining a game outcome to be a winning
   outcome,   calculating a prize at least in part based on
   the number of credits wagered on each container.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises selecting three
20 objects for each of five containers.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises receiving a player
   selection of at least one container of the set of
   containers, and determining a game outcome based on all
25 objects of each selected container and at least based on
   objects in a designated part of each non-selected
   container.
   In an embodiment, at least one other type of object may be
30 included in the game outcome determination even though it
   is not in the designated part of the container.
   In an embodiment, an at least one other type of object is
   a feature object associated with free games.
35
   In a third aspect the invention provides a game controller
   comprising:
              an object selector arranged to select a plurality
   of objects for each container to fill each container of a
40 set of a plurality of containers displayed on a display;
   and

                               - 4
             an outcome generator arranged to determine a game
   outcome based on at least one characteristic of at least
   one object of each container of the set of containers,
             the game controller arranged to, upon determining
 5 a game outcome to be a winning outcome,   calculate a prize
   at least in part based on a number of credits received as
   a selection of a number of credits to be wagered for each
   container of the plurality of containers.
10 In an embodiment, the object selector is arranged to
   select three objects for each of five containers.
   In an embodiment, the game controller further comprises a
   container selector operable by a player to select at least
15 one container of the set of containers,
             the outcome generator arranged to determine a
   game outcome based on all objects of each selected
   container and at least based on objects in a designated
   part of each non-selected container.
20
   In an embodiment, at least one other type of object may be
   included in the game outcome determination of the outcome
   generator even though it is not in the designated part of
   the container.
25
   In an embodiment, an at least one other type of object is
   a feature object associated with free games.
   In a fourth aspect the invention provides computer program
30 code that when executed by a computer causes a computer to
   implement the above method.
   In a fifth aspect the invention provides a computer
   readable storage medium comprising the computer program
35 code.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The preferred embodiment of the invention will now be
40 described in relation to the following drawings in which:

                              - 5
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
   gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a gaming machine;
 5
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
   of a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a block diagram representing the structure of
10 a memory;
   Figure 5 is a diagram schematic of a networked gaming
   system;
15 Figure 6 is a functional block diagram showing detailed
   components of a game controller; and
   Figure 7 shows an exemplary table;
20 Figure 8 shows a screen shot of an exemplary game outcome;
   Figure 9 shows a screen shot of a second exemplary game
   outcome; and
25 Figure 10 is a flow chart of a method of the preferred
   embodiment.
   Preferred Embodiment
30 Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
   having a game controller arranged to implement a method of
   gaming where objects are placed in containers and a game
   outcome is determined based on at least one characteristic
   of the objects placed in the containers.
35
   In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
40 In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing

                              - 6
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
 5 wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
10 operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
15 envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.  For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
20 machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on.  Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
25 Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
   several core components.  At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1.  The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
30 the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
   Components of the player interface may vary from
35 embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54 and a game
   play mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions.
40

                               - 7
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
 5 display.   Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:  a
10 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
15 machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.   The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
20 interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.   Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
25 reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   A reading device may also be provided for the
   purpose of reading a player tracking device, for example
   as part of a loyalty program.   The player tracking device
   may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any other
30 portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
35 information or images relating to the game.   Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.   A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
40

   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
 5 display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14, or of a different
   type.
10
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
15 The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
20 volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
25 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.  The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
30 own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
35 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader
   108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input
   mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.   Additional
40 hardware may be included as part of the gaming machine

                              - 9
   100, or hardware may be omitted as required for the
   specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
 5 communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
10 database.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
15 103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.  The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
20 integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
25 gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
30 alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
35 operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
40 or more gaming machines are also envisaged.

                              - 10
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.  The displays 204 may, for example, be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
 5 The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
10 In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game.  With this embodiment, as both the game server and
   the gaming device implement part of the game, they
15 collectively provide a game controller.   A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.   Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
20 game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to implement
   the accounting functions for a Jackpot game.   A player
   loyalty system 212 may also be provided.
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
25 most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.   With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller.    The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
30 these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
35 computer input and output components.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
40 licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses

                               - 11
   relating to particular games.    An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
 5 The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
10 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.    For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
15 separate server may be provided.    For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided. Persons skilled in the art will also
   appreciate that random includes pseudo-random. Further,
20 persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
   plurality of games servers could be provided to run
   different games or a single game server may run a
   plurality of different games as required by the terminals.
25 Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
   method of the preferred embodiment could be embodied in
   program code and indeed that the game controller may be
   implemented by a processor executing the program code. The
   program code could be supplied in a number of ways, for
30 example on a computer readable medium, such as a disc or a
   memory  (for example, that could replace part of memory
   103) or as a data signal  (for example, by downloading it
   from a server).
35 A game controller 60 of the preferred embodiment is shown
   in Figure 6.   The game controller 60 is arranged to select
   objects to fill a series of containers to be displayed on
   display 54.   The processor of game controller 60 executes
   code in memory 64 in order to implement a number of
40 functions as described in detail below. Persons skilled in

                              - 12
   the art will appreciate that some of these function, e.g.
   random number generator 610 could be implemented by
   dedicated hardware.
 5 Container data 642 is used by game controller 60 to
   populate the display 54 with the containers that are to be
   filled during game play.  In order to initiate the game, a
   player selects which of the containers they will play
   using container selector 564 in the form of a plurality of
10 buttons 564A-564E.  The container selector 564 is a series
   of buttons that allows the player to select whether they
   will play the first container using button 564A, the first
   and second containers using button 564B, the first three
   containers using button 564C, the first four containers
15 using button 564D, or all five containers using button
   564E.
   The player also selects how many credits the player will
   bet per container that the player is playing.  That is,
20 one credit using button 563A, two credits using button
   563B, three credits using button 563C, five credits using
   button 563D, or twenty credits using button 563C of the
   gaming mechanism.
25 Once the player has specified parameters for the game, the
   player presses the drop button 566 to initiate game play.
   Once the player initiates game play, the container filler
   630 of the game controller 60 populates the containers
   displayed on the display based on container data 642 that
30 specifies the number of containers and the number of
   objects to be placed in each container.  The container
   filler 630 requests object selections from the object
   selector 620.  The object selector uses random number
   generator 610 to randomly extract objects from object
35 pools 641 and provide these to container filler 630.   In
   the preferred embodiment, separate object pools are
   maintained for each container.  The number of objects in
   each pool is undisclosed to the player.  The object
   selector randomly selects the objects by randomly
40 selecting from a probability table stored in memory 64

                               - 13
   using the random number generator 610.   In the preferred
   embodiment, once an object has been selected from the pool
   for a container, that object is removed from the pool for
   subsequent selection.   In this embodiment, the object
 5 selector 620 updates the object data 641 specifying the
   object pool each time an object is selected.   Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that other techniques
   may be used to select multiple objects for one container.
   For example, the objects stored in the pool may be stored
10 in a sequence or otherwise linked together and following
   one object being displayed the next two objects in the
   sequence may be placed into the container.   As the objects
   are selected, they are displayed as being placed into the
   containers on display 54.
15
   The container filler 630 also provides data specifying the
   objects that have been selected to the outcome generator
   660.   The outcome generator determines the outcome of the
   game based on the game instruction and pay table data 644
20 stored in memory 64.   The game outcomes are output to the
   display 54.
   The player can elect to reserve the machine by pressing
   button 561 or collect their winnings by pressing button
25 562.   At any time, the player can check the game rules by
   pressing button 565 which displays the pay table and other
   rules.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate there may be a
30 number of variations to the above gaming system.
   Objects can include but are not limited to representations
   of:
        *     Balls
35      e     Discs
        e     Dice
        e     Dominoes
        e     Cards
        *     Blocks
40      e     Balloons

                               - 14
        *    Fish
   The objects are uniquely identified by at least one
   characteristic, including but not limited to:
 5      e    Shape
        e    Colour
        e    Images or Symbols
        *    Numbers
10 The objects' characteristics can be used in combination by
   the outcome generator to determine winning patterns - e.g.
   red balls pay 10, balls with the number 7 pay 5, red balls
   with 7 pay 50.
15 Containers may be:
        e    Tubes  (closed or open ended)
        e    Tubs
        e    Baskets
        e    Boxes
20
   In the preferred embodiment, the containers enable the
   objects to be collected in such a manner that order can be
   defined, thus enabling various patterns of objects to be
   formed and perceived by the player.   In one embodiment,
25 the containers can be connected.
   Depending on the specific implementation, a bet can
   purchase the usual items known in gaming, including but
   not limited to:
30      e    Prize patterns
        e    Multiple pay tables
        e    Certain uniquely identified objects
        e    Features
35 In particular, the above embodiment, has been described in
   relation to an arrangement where the player selects
   containers they which to play to establish their
   entitlement to win (i.e. based on all objects in selected
   containers and only certain objects in non-selected
40 container. In other embodiments, pay patterns may be

                               - 15
   defined, for example which have one position from each
   container and the player's entitlement to win may be
   established based on their selection of pay patterns. For
   example, so they win based on combinations on pay patterns
 5 they have selected. In some embodiments, there may be
   further wins based on scatter pays and the like.
   In the preferred embodiment, the objects move onto the
   screen by dropping but, in an alternative embodiment, the
10 objects move onto the screen by floating upwards   (e.g. if
   the images are balloons) with the labelling of button 566
   changed accordingly.   The rate of drop or rise can be
   constant or it can be variable.   Variation can be due to:
        e     The number of objects already in the container,
15      e     The order of the container being filled; or
        e     The type of objects already in containers.
   In one embodiment, the objects can be balloons which when
   "touched" will "burst and disappear" from the screen.    For
20 example, when a predetermined number of balloons are on
   the screen.
   Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that in
   the above description there is a single set of containers
25 in relation to which an outcome is determined by the
   outcome generator 660.   That is, the five containers given
   as an example above provide a set of five containers.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that there may
   be more than one set of containers.   For example, fifteen
30 containers grouped in three sets of five containers.
   Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that
   containers can be formed into sets of containers in
   different ways.   For example, one or more containers may
   belong to two different sets of containers.
35
   Method 1000 of the preferred embodiment is summarised in
   Figure 10.   The method involves receiving a player
   selection of containers 1010, populating 1020 the
   containers with selected objects and determining 1030 the
40 game outcome based on selected containers and objects.

                               - 16
   The determination involves all objects of each selected
   container but only designated objects of each non-selected
   container in the determination.   The determination may
 5 include additional features, for example, a free game
   symbol may form part of the game outcome even if in a non
   designated area of a non-selected container.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the above
10 method can be implemented as program code which when
   executed will cause a computer to execute a computer
   implemented game method.   The computer can be any
   appropriate combination of processor, memory, and other
   hardware.  The Computer program code may be supplied on a
15 computer readable medium, such as disk, or by a data
   signal in a data transmission.
   A detailed example of the game will now be described in
   relation to the game controller of the preferred
20 embodiment illustrated in relation to a detailed example.
   Example
   In this example, the objects are balls in a ball drop game
25 where the player selects one to five displayed onscreen
   tubes using buttons 564A-564E to be lit, and then presses
   "Drop" button 566 to initiate three balls dropping into
   each tube.  In this example, there are ten different
   coloured balls, plus two specially rendered balls, a WILD
30 and a FREE DROP ball.   That is, in this game the objects'
   characteristics are their colour and whether they are a
   WILD or FREE DROP ball.   Balls of the same colour pay if
   they appear anywhere in consecutive tubes from left to
   right.  In unbought  (non-selected) tubes, however, only
35 the middle ball pays  (i.e. is included in determining the
   game outcome) and the top and bottom balls are darkened on
   the display 54 to indicate that these tubes have not been
   selected.  Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   this means that only balls placed in the middle part of
40 the tube pay, and that any other part of the tube may be

                               - 17
   designated as the paying part, for example, the bottom
   position of each non-selected tube.
   The WILD ball 840 substitutes for all symbols and appears
 5 in tubes 2 and 4.   Three or more FREE DROP balls appearing
   from left to right in any position wins a free drop
   feature.   FREE DROP balls will pay and initiate the
   FREE DROP feature even if they appear in darkened sections
   of unbought tubes, but like every symbol they must still
10 appear on the leftmost tube and then appear consecutively
   from left to right.   In this example, Tubes are always
   bought from left to right.    In the FREE DROP feature, the
   player plays the game without paying credits and special
   rules apply to how credits may be accumulated as described
15 below.
   1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 credits   (cents) can be bet on each tube.
   The cost to play one tube is 1 credit, two tubes cost 5
   credits, three cost 10, four cost 20 and playing all five
20 tubes costs 25 credits.   All wins are multiplied by the
   credits bet per tube except the FREE DROP ball -    its wins
   are multiplied by the total number of credits bet.
   Free drops are played in the same number of tubes with the
25 same credits bet per tube as the drop that triggered the
   free drops.   10, 15 or 20 free drops are won by 3, 4 or 5
   FREE DROP balls, respectively.    During the free drops, any
   WILD substituting in tube two multiplies the win by three,
   and also, any WILD substituting in a win in tube four
30 multiplies the win by five.    Hence, any win with WILD
   substituting in tubes two and four simultaneously during
   the free drops is multiplied by fifteen.
   The pay table is illustrated in Figure 7.     The pay table
35 shows that for the free game ball    (called the "ball power"
   ball), five of the same balls results in the player
   obtaining 40 credits per credit bet plus twenty free
   drops.   Four ball power balls lead to 20 credits and
   fifteen free drops and three ball power balls lead to 4
40 credits and ten free drops. In each drop, all the

                               -  18
   containers are filled.   Pay table items are also specified
   for each coloured ball as indicated by a picture of the
   ball, the number of balls and the number of credits shown
   in that order.   For example, for a red ball 710, for five
 5 balls 711, there is a prize of 2,500 credits 712.
   The pay table also specifies out other rules of the game.
   During the game, balls drop into five tubes and pay 3, 4,
   5 of a kind starting in the left tube.     The record symbol
10 is a WILD ball which substitutes for all other balls.
   During the free drops feature of the game, the WILD symbol
   substituting in tube two multiples the win by three.
   During the free drops, the WILD symbol substituting in
   tube four multiplies the win by five.
15
   The player selects their number of tubes     (with associated
   tube cost) using a tube selector 564 in the form of
   buttons 564A-564E and bet per tube using buttons 563A-563E
   and presses "Drop" to initiate play.     Meters 841-845 on
20 display 54 indicate the CREDIT 841 available to the
   player, the number of TUBES 842 being played, the BET PER
   TUBE 843, the TOTAL BET 844    (which is tube cost times bet
   per tube) and the WIN 845 of the current game.
25 Five tubes are displayed prominently on screen and each
   drop involves an animation of three balls falling
   vertically into each tube.    A sequence of balls for each
   tube is selected randomly for each tube.      An exemplary
   screen layout is shown in Figure 8.     In this screen, the
30 WILD ball is depicted as a vinyl phonographic record and
   the FREE DROP ball bears the name of the game, "Ball
   Power".   This screen shows the player betting 2 credits on
   all five tubes, and winning 4-of-a-kind RED ball     (1,000
   credits) and 4-of-a-kind FREE DROP ball    (20 credits), both
35 with WILD substitution.   This results in a credit win of
   3,000  (2 x 1,000 + 50 x 20),   as well as triggering 15 free
   drops  (free drops are not multiplied).
   Playing two tubes is shown in Figure 9.     Note that the
40 right three tubes are displayed with parts 910A-910F of

                              - 19
   the tube darkened to show that only the designated middle
   part of the tube will be used in determining the game
   outcome for the coloured ball objects.
 5 Further variations will be apparent to persons skilled in
   the art and fall within the scope of the invention
   described herein.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
10 description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
15 not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.

                              - 20
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A gaming system comprising:
             a display;
 5           an object selector arranged to select a plurality
   of objects for each container to fill  each container of a
   set of a plurality of containers displayed on the display;
             a credit selector arranged to select a number of
   credits to be wagered for each container of the plurality
10 of containers; and
             an outcome generator arranged to determine a game
   outcome based on at least one characteristic of at least
   one object of each container of the set of containers,
   wherein a game outcome determined to be a winning outcome
15 is associated with a prize, the prize being calculated at
   least in part based on the number of credits wagered on
   each container.
   2.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein
20 the object selector is arranged to select three objects
   for each of five containers.
   3.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
   further comprising a container selector operable by a
25 player to select at least one container of the set of
   containers,
             the outcome generator arranged to determine a
   game outcome based on all objects of each selected
   container and at least based on objects in a designated
30 part of each non-selected container.
   4.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 3, wherein at
   least one other type of object may be included in the game
   outcome determination of the outcome generator even though
35 it is not in the designated part of the container.
   5.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein an
   at least one other type of object is a feature object
   associated with free games.
40

                               - 21
   6.        A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 5, wherein the containers are selected from the group
   comprising:  tubes, tubs, baskets, and boxes.
 5 7.        A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 6, wherein the objects are selected from the group
   comprising balls discs, dice, dominoes, cards, fish
   blocks, and balloons.
10 8.        A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 7, wherein different objects are distinguishable from
   one another by shape, colour, or marking.
   9.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein
15 there are a plurality of sets of containers.
   10.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 9, wherein
   one or more containers is in more than one set of
   containers.
20
   11.       A method of gaming in a gaming system comprising:
             displaying a set of containers on a display;
              selecting a plurality of objects to fill each
   container;
25            receiving a selection of a number of credits to
   be wagered for each container of the plurality of
   containers;
             determining a game outcome based on at least one
   characteristic of at least one object of each container of
30 the set of containers; and
             upon determining a game outcome to be a winning
   outcome,   calculating a prize at least in part based on
   the number of credits wagered on each container.
35 12.       A method as claimed in claim 11, comprising
   selecting three objects for each of five containers.
   13.       A method as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12
   comprising receiving a player selection of at least one
40 container of the set of containers, and determining a game

                              - 22
   outcome based on all objects of each selected container
   and at least based on objects in a designated part of each
   non-selected container.
 5 14.       A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein at least
   one other type of object may be included in the game
   outcome determination even though it is not in the
   designated part of the container.
10 15.       A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein an at
   least one other type of object is a feature object
   associated with free games.
   16.       A game controller comprising:
15           an object selector arranged to select a plurality
   of objects for each container to fill each container of a
   set of a plurality of containers displayed on a display;
   and
             an outcome generator arranged to determine a game
20 outcome based on at least one characteristic of at least
   one object of each container of the set of containers,
             the game controller arranged to, upon determining
   a game outcome to be a winning outcome,   calculate a prize
   at least in part based on a number of credits received as
25 a selection of a number of credits to be wagered for each
   container of the plurality of containers.
   17.       A game controller as claimed in claim 16, wherein
   the object selector is arranged to select three objects
30 for each of five containers.
   18.       A game controller as claimed in claim 16 or claim
   17, further comprising a container selector operable by a
   player to select at least one container of the set of
35 containers,
             the outcome generator arranged to determine a
   game outcome based on all objects of each selected
   container and at least based on objects in a designated
   part of each non-selected container.
40

                              - 23
   19.       A game controller as claimed in claim 18, wherein
   at least one other type of object may be included in the
   game outcome determination of the outcome generator even
   though it is not in the designated part of the container.
 5
   20.       A gaming system as claimed in claim 19, wherein
   an at least one other type of object is a feature object
   associated with free games.
10 21.       Computer program code that when executed by a
   computer causes a computer to implement the method of any
   one of claims 11 to 15.
   22.       A computer readable storage medium comprising the
15 computer program code of claim 21.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                       "      &    ''
<removed-apn>
              ! " #
               $%                           !
                       * +,       &$            $(
              ( )' #
                         * &
                                        0
                       (& (&)* $-(''
               (&                           (& %* )*
                            )
                                             !            .
                !             %!
                                                     /(

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                -
&                          0
           1(
       '
      ('   ''
2 3

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                               % 4
                                                          % 4             , 5       %
                                                                                               %
                                                             %                  1 55
                                  , 5 8
                                                                                                     !
                                                                     %6    %!                  ,    6    %
                                                                             %             7       8     5
                                          ,         ,            ,              ,
              ,     9
                        6            6         6         6                6
                        5 8           5 8       5 8       5 8              5 8                           %
                        6            6 ,       6 ,       6 ,              6 ,
                                                                                         !
              %55                      7         :         :                :
                                                                                        65 ,
                        2             2        2         2                2
                              3           ,3        ,3        ,3               ,3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        1

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              (/    ' #   , '    ( & ;   & (&
              )*'         & (&     (+, '
                           %-<
                "(&       " %* "
               &, '           & (&       &
                          %-<

