                                                              ABSTRACT
A super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus comprising:a pressure container comprising a body and a lid
coupled to the body to close a space formed therein to accommodate an object;a contact unit configured to open
and close the body, while moving the lid forward and backward; and a pipeline unit comprising a supply line for
supplying a liquid for filling in the pressure container and a discharge line for discharging the liquid of the
pressure container

                                                            1
          Title of Invention : SUPER CRITICAL HYDROLYSIS
     EXTRACTION APPARATUS AND HYDROLYSIS METHOD
                                           USING THE SAME
   Technical Field
 [1]
Embodiments of the disclosure relate to a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus which controls a
temperature and a pressure applied to a hydrolysis extraction object effectively to improve hydrolysis extraction
efficiency, and a hydrolysis method using the same.
   Background Art
 [2]
It is known that the time taken to perform a hydrolysis process is reduced noticeably when the hydrolysis process
is performed for a conventional object at high temperatures and high pressures.
 [3]
Considering commercialization of hydrolysis objects, reducing the time taken to perform the hydrolysis for an
object plays an important role in the unit cost of production. Accordingly, apparatuses for providing a high
temperature and high pressure condition in various methods to a hydrolysis object are supplied.
 [4]
In this connection, Korean Patent No. 1992-0017580 discloses that a pressure is applied to a pressure container
via a supply line for supplying liquid for pressing an object provided in a pressure container, to cool the pressure
container, using refrigerant.
 [5]
However, in case of heating or cooling the pressure container itself to control the heat of the pressure container,
the heat is transmitted to the object via the pressure container and the liquid. Accordingly, it takes a relatively
long time to change the temperature of the object. Especially, when a mass of pressure containers and objects in
consideration of productivity, the hydrolysis takes a longer time and more energy is consumed in case of applying
heat to pressure containers outside.
 [6]
Moreover, there may be a difference between the quantities of the heat supplied in accordance with external
environment and the equipment set in accordance with an external temperature of an installation space has to be
re-set disadvantageously.
 [7]
In a process for raising the applied temperature to destruct enzyme after the hydrolysis process of the object,
dissolved gas degasified from the object unless the temperature is raised with maintaining a critical pressure
might be dispersed to the object and the hydrolyzed object might be spoiled. When using only an external heater
of the pressure container in a process for raising the temperature of the pressure container, with maintaining the
critical pressure to prevent the spoiled object, the time taken to raise the temperature and energy efficiency might
deteriorate to deteriorate the productivity disadvantageously.

                                                            2
[8]
Also, when a process for removing the pressure and a process for cooling to secure the object in a state where
the object a critical pressure or higher is applied to is completely hydrolyzed are performed simultaneously, the
decay of the object caused by the dispersion of the dissolved gas might occur rapidly. Accordingly, the
temperature has to be cooled to the lowest value so as to make the density of solvent (e.g., water) primarily, in a
state of maintaining the critical pressure to minimize the decay of the object caused by the dispersion of the
dissolved gas.
[9]
In case of depending on only a heating/cooling source outside the pressure container in a process for cooling the
object maintaining a high temperature as well as a critical pressure, much time might be spent on the cooling of
the object disadvantageously.
  Disclosure of Invention
       Technical Problem
[10]
To solve the problems, an object of the disclosure is to provide a hydrolysis extraction apparatus which can
control a temperature of a hydrolysis object via circulation with maintaining a critical or higher pressure, after
applying a critical pressure to a hydrolysis object, and a hydrolysis method using the same.
[11]
Additional advantages, objects, and features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which
follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following
or may be learned from practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention may be
realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well
as the appended drawings.
       Solution to Problem
[12]
To achieve these objects and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the embodiments, as
embodied and broadly described herein, a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus includes a pressure
container comprising a body and a lid coupled to the body to close a space formed therein to accommodate an
object; a contact unit configured to open and close the body, while moving the lid forward and backward; and a
pipeline unit comprising a supply line where a liquid for filling in the pressure container and a discharge line for
discharging the liquid of the pressure container.
[13]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a convey unit comprising an introducing
portion for supplying the object to the body, when the body is moved forward; and a discharging portion for
discharging the object provided in the body outside the body, wherein body is movable forward and backward
and the lid closes the body when the body is arranged behind.
[14]

                                                              3
The contact unit may include a pusher die fixed to an upper end of a base; a guide bar coupled to the lid through
the push die to couple and decouple the lid to the body, while moving rightward and leftward; and an inserted
portion inserted between the lid and the pusher die, when the lid is coupled to the body, to prevent the lid from
being pushed backward by a high pressure in the body.
 [15]
In another aspect of the disclosure, a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus includes a pressure container
in which a hydrolysis object is provided; a supply line for supplying liquid configured to fill in the pressure
container; and a pressing line for additionally supplying liquid configured to apply a pressure to the hydrolysis
object to the pressure container accommodating the liquid.
 [16]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a storage tank in which the liquid supplied
via the supply line is stored; and a temperature adjusting unit for adjusting the temperature of the liquid stored in
the storage tank. The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a first circulation line for
connecting the storage tank and the pressure container with each other.
 [17]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a storage tank in which the liquid supplied
via the pressing line is stored; and a temperature adjusting unit for adjusting the temperature of the liquid stored
in the storage tank. The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a second circulation
line for connecting the storage tank and the pressure container with each other.
 [18]
A chamber may be provided in the pressing line to adjust the pressure of the liquid supplied from the pressing
line as a preset pressure. The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a storage tank in
which the liquid supplied via the supply line and the pressing line is stored; and a temperature adjusting unit for
adjusting the temperature of the liquid stored in the storage tank.
 [19]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a third circulation line for circulating the
liquid of the pressure container toward the storage tank, when the liquid is supplied via the supply line; and a
fourth circulation line for circulating the liquid of the pressure container toward the storage tank, when the liquid is
supplied via the pressing line, wherein the storage tank and the pressure container are connected with each
other.
 [20]
In a further aspect of the disclosure, a hydrolysis extraction method includes a liquid filling step for filling liquid
having a second temperature in a pressure container accommodating a hydrolysis object; a pressing step for
increasing the pressure inside the pressure container to a second pressure by injecting the liquid into the
pressure container filled with the liquid; and a temperature raising step for raising the temperature to a third
temperature configured to destruct enzyme provided in the hydrolysis object, in a state of maintaining the second
pressure in the first period after maintaining the pressure of the pressure container as a first pressure.
 [21]
The hydrolysis extraction method may further include a temperature lowering step for lowering the temperature of
the liquid to a first temperature lower than the second temperature in a state of maintaining the pressure of the
pressure container as the second pressure in the second period after maintaining the pressure container at the

                                                             4
second pressure and a third temperature, the temperature lowering step performed after the temperature raising
step, the temperature lowering step performed after the temperature raising step.
[22]
The hydrolysis extraction method may further include a pressure reducing step for reducing the pressure of the
pressure container to a first pressure lower than the second pressure. The hydrolysis extraction method may
further include a cooling step for cooling the object, the cooling step performed after the pressure reducing step.
[23]
The hydrolysis extraction method may further include a liquid injecting step for injecting the liquid to the pressure
container; and a high temperature liquid circulating step for circulating the liquid having the first temperature or
higher to raise the temperature of the hydrolysis object.
[24]
The hydrolysis extraction method may further include a pressing step for increasing the pressure inside the
pressure container to a second pressure by injecting liquid into the pressure container filled with the liquid; and a
pressing circulating step for circulating the liquid in a state of maintaining the pressure of the pressure container
as a second pressure.
       Advantageous Effects of Invention
[25]
The embodiments have following advantageous effects.
[26]
Firstly, the pressing line and the high pressure line are separated, to supply the liquid to the pressure container.
Accordingly, the liquid can be filled in the pressure container in a short time and also the pressure inside the
pressure container can be increased to the critical pressure rapidly.
[27]
Secondly, the liquid having a specific temperature is circulated via the supply line and the first circulation line
such that the temperature deep inside the hydrolysis object can be raised to the hydrolysis proper temperature in
a short time.
[28]
Thirdly, the temperature and pressure inside the pressure container may be balanced effectively during the
hydrolysis process of the object. Accordingly, the apparatus may be used for common use even in various
external environments.
[29]
Fourthly, the temperature inside the pressure container may be raised or lowered in a state of maintaining the
pressure applied to the pressure container as the critical pressure or more. Accordingly, the enzyme destruction
and the object cooling may be performed in a state where the dissolved gas of the object is degasified and also
the decay of the object caused by the spreading of the dissolved gas may be prevented advantageously.
[30]
The objectives and other advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by the structure particularly
pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

                                                             5
  Brief Description of Drawings
[31]
FIG. 1 is a plane view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the
disclosure;
[32]
FIG. 2 is a front view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the
disclosure;
[33]
FIG. 3 is a side view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the
disclosure;
[34]
FIG. 4 is a diagram schematically illustrating a pipe connection line of a pressure container provided in a super
critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the disclosure;
[35]
FIG. 5 is a diagram schematically illustrating a pipe connection line of a pressure container provided in a super
critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to another embodiment of the disclosure
[36]
FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating flow of a hydrolysis method using a pressure container provided in a super critical
hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the disclosure;
[37]
FIG. 7 is a diagram schematically illustrating a hydrolysis process using a super critical hydrolysis extraction
apparatus according to one embodiment of the disclosure; and
[38]
FIG. 8 is a diagram schematically illustrating a hydrolysis process using a super critical hydrolysis extraction
apparatus according to another embodiment of the disclosure.
  Mode for the Invention
[39]
Hereinafter, exemplary embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail, referring to the accompanying
drawings. For the sake of brief description with reference to the drawings, the same or equivalent components
will be provided with the same reference numbers, and description thereof will not be repeated.
[40]
A super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to embodiments of the disclosure is an apparatus for
hydrolyze or extract an object by controlling a temperature and a pressure applied to an object according to
supplying of liquid with a controllable temperature, after an object is provided in a pressure container.
[41]
In other words, the object is placed in the pressure container and then a process for high pressure dissolution
extraction for the object may be performed through a process which will be described hereinafter.
[42]

                                                             6
FIG. 1 is a plane view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of the
disclosure. FIG. 2 is a front view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment
of the disclosure. FIG. 3 is a side view of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one
embodiment of the disclosure.
[43]
Referring to FIGS. 1, 2 and 3, the super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus is configured to close a pressure
container 210 airtight stably, while moving a vessel 240 receiving an object inward and outward with respect to a
pressure container 210. The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus includes a pressure container 210, a
contact unit 220 and a convey unit 230.
[44]
The pressure 210 includes a body 211 and a lid 212.
[45]
In the body 211 may be formed a predetermined space to receive a vessel 240 where the object is provided and
a hole is formed in the body to move the vessel 240 there through. Specifically, the body 211 disclosed in this
embodiment is cylinder-shaped, with a hole 21 la formed in each of front and rear surfaces.
[46]
The body 211 may be movable in a forward and backward direction. When the body 211 is conveyed forward, the
vessel 240 is moved inward or outward. When conveyed backward, the body 211 is closed 211 as the lid 212 is
closed.
[47]
Meanwhile, the body 211 may be movable forward and backward in various methods. In this embodiment, the
body 211 may be fixed on a movable plate 213 by a pair of clamps 216 such that the movable plate 213 can
move along a guide 215.
[48]
The lid 212 is configured to close the hole of the body 211. Specifically, a pair of lids 212 may be insertedly fitted
to the holes 211 a formed in the front and rear surfaces of the body 211, respectively.
[49]
Although not shown in the drawings, the body 211 or the lid 212 may be connected to a supply line 20, a
pressure line 30, a first circulation line 60, a second circulation line 70 and a filling line 90, so as to inject or
exhaust the liquid to an internal space of the body 211.
[50]
However, considering that a high pressure is applied to the internal space of the pressure container 200, it is
preferred that a plurality of lines may be connected to the lid 212 which can stand the pressure relatively more
than the body 211. The configuration connected to the pipeline and the pressure application process enabled by
the controlled injection of the liquid will be described later.
[51]
In addition, a band heater is provided in the pressure container 200 to adjust the temperature of the pressure
container and the temperature control of the injected liquid enabled hereinafter will be descried later in detail.
[52]

                                                          7
The contact unit 220 is configured to open and close the body 211, with moving the lid 212 forward and backward.
Specifically, a pair of contact units 220 may be provided in this embodiment. The pair of the contact units 220 has
the same configuration and operation, except different installation positions. Accordingly, one of the pairs will be
described in detail.
[53]
Specifically, the contact unit 220 includes a pusher die 221 fixed to a top of the base and a guide bar 222
movable rightward and leftward through the pusher die 221, with one end connected to the lid 212. The motion of
the guide bar 222 enables the lid 212 to open and close the body 211.
[54]
Meanwhile, the contact unit 220 according to the embodiments of the disclosure may further include an inserted
portion 223 inserted between the lid 212 and the pusher die 221 as a key to prevent the lid 212 from being
pushed backward when a high pressure is applied to the pressure container 200.
[55]
The inserted portion 223 is formed as thick as inserted between a back side of the lid and a front side of the
pusher die, when the lid is inserted. The inserted portion may be movable forward and backward by various
driving methods.
[56]
The convey unit 230 includes an introducing portion 231 for introducing the vessel 240 to the body 211 and an
discharging portion 232 for discharging the hydrolyzed vessel 240 outside the body 211.
[57]
The introducing portion 231 further include a pusher 231 arranged on the right of the body 211 moved forward, to
push the vessel 231 into the body 211.
[58]
The discharging portion 232 is arranged on the left of the body 211 moved forward. A plurality of rollers 232a may
be arranged in the discharging portion 232 to discharge the vessel 240 outside the body 211 there along.
[59]
Hereinafter, the operation of the hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to the embodiments of the disclosure
described above will be described.
[60]
The vessel 240 receiving the object is introduced to the introducing portion and the pusher 231a pushes the
vessel 240 to the internal space of the body 211, such that the body 211 can move backward.
[61]
When the body 211 moves backward, the guide bar 222 moves to move the lid 212 toward the body 211, such
that the body 211 can be closed airtight. Then, the inserted portion 223 is inserted between the lid 212 and the
pusher die 221 to secure the lid.
[62]
The hydrolysis extraction may further include a frame 250 for fixing the pair of the pusher dies 221, with a lower
portion fixed to the base.
[63]

                                                              8
The frame 250 is functioned to support the pair of the pusher dies 221 receiving the power generated by the
internal pressure of the pressure container stably, when a high pressure is applied to the pressure container 200.
Specifically, the lower portion of the frame 250 may be formed in a "n" shape such that both ends can be
coupled to the pair of the pusher dies 221.
 [64]
As the liquid having the adjusted temperature is injected into or discharged from the pressure container 200, a
required temperature and a required pressure are applied to the object. In this process, the hydrolysis of the
object is performed which will be described later in detail.
 [65]
Once the object is hydrolyzed, the inserted portion 223 moves backward and the lid 212 is open.
 [66]
The body 211 having the vessel 240 arranged therein may move forward. As the pusher 231a of the introducing
portion 231 pushes a new vessel 240, the hydrolyzed vessel 240 is pushed by the new vessel not hydrolyzed yet
only to be discharged from the body 211. After that, the hydrolyzed vessel 240 is conveyed to equipment for a
following process along the discharging portion 232 by the roller 232a.
 [67]
In other words, a series of processes for introducing, closing, hydrolyzing and discharging the vessel 240 in
which the hydrolysis object is provided may be automatically performed in accordance with the configuration
mentioned above. The productivity of the process for manufacturing the hydrolyzed object for common use can
be increased.
 [68]
Hereinafter will be described the configuration of the pipeline for injecting, circulating and discharging the liquid
having the temperature adjusted to hydrolyze the object and the process for applying the temperature and
pressure to the object.
 [69]
FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of a super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to one embodiment of
the disclosure.
 [70]
Referring to FIG. 4, the hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to the present disclosure includes a pressure
container, an air supply line 20 and a pressure line 30. In a state where a flexible container having a hydrolysis
object, water and enzyme is provided in a pressure container, liquid having an adjustable temperature is injected
into the pressure container at a high pressure. As a pressure and a temperature inside the pressure container are
controlled, the object is hydrolyzed.
 [71]
The pressure container 200 provides a predetermined space (S) to accommodate the object. in a state where the
object is arranged in the space (S), liquid is filled in the space and a pressure is applied to the object based on
the quantity of the filled liquid.
 [72]
As mentioned above, the pressure container 200 is closable and a user places the object in the pressure
container 200. After the hydrolysis process, the user takes out the pressure container 200 out of the pressure

                                                               9
container 200. Also, various measuring instruments capable of measuring and monitoring the
pressure/temperature of the liquid filled in the pressure container may be provided in the pressure container.
[73]
Various typed heating units for heating the pressure container may be provided in the pressure container 200, to
raise or maintain the temperature of the liquid filled in the pressure container. Specifically, in this embodiment, a
heater 200a may be provided partially around the pressure container 200 to heat the pressure container 200
such that heat can be transmitted into the pressure container 200.
[74]
In other words, the temperature of the flowing liquid may be adjusted by a temperature adjusting unit 50 and the
temperature applied to the liquid filled in the pressure container may be adjusted by the heater 200a
simultaneously. Accordingly, the temperature transmitted to the hydrolysis object can be controlled in a relatively
short time.
[75]
Accordingly, the temperature of the liquid adjusted by the temperature adjusting unit 50, which could gradually
falls with the time, may be compensated to maintain the temperature inside the pressure container 200.
[76]
Meanwhile, as the temperature of the liquid adjusted by the heater 200a rises, the pressure inside the pressure
container can rise. In this instance, the liquid filled in the pressure container may be discharged through the
pipelines connected to the pressure container which will be described later and an auxiliary pipeline, to enable
pressure balancing to keep a desired pressure.
[77]
The discharging of the liquid for the pressure balancing may be enabled based on the capacity of the pressure
container by a first circulation line 60, a second circulation line 70 and a pressure adjusting line 60a which will be
described later.
[78]
Meanwhile, an airtight container (P, see FIG. 6) formed of a flexible material accommodates the object together
with water and enzyme. The flexible container accommodating the object, water and enzyme may be arranged in
the pressure container 200, such that the object can be hydrolyzed through the activation of the enzyme in a
pressure/temperature condition generated by the liquid having the specific temperature.
[79]
Specifically, for instance, ground meat is placed in vinyl and a proper enzyme for dissolving is added. After that,
the vinyl is closed airtight and the meat is hydrolyzed via the pressure applied by the liquid having the specific
temperature, such that the meat can be changed into liquid. Specific hydrolysis processes will be described later.
[80]
The supply line 20 is configured to supply the liquid which will be filled in the pressure container 200. Specifically,
the supply line 20 connects the pressure container 200 with a storage tank 40 which will be described later, such
that the specific temperature liquid stored in the storage tank 40 is supplied to the pressure container 200 to fill in
the internal space (S) of the pressure container 200.
[81]
The pressure line 30 additionally supplies liquid to apply a pressure to the hydrolysis object to the pressure
container 200 filled with the liquid. The pressure line 30 also connects the pressure container 200 with the

                                                           10
storage tank 40 such that the specific temperature liquid stored in the storage tank 40 may be supplied to the
pressure container 200.
 [82]
In other words, the internal space (S) of the pressure container 200 is filled with the liquid supplied via the supply
line 20 and the liquid is additionally supplied to the space filled with the liquid via the pressure line 30, such that
the pressure inside the pressure container 200 can be increased gradually.
 [83]
Meanwhile, each of the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30 may include a pump (P) and the types and
capacities of the pumps (P) may be differently determined based on the different purposes of the supply line 20
and the pressure line 30 which are whether to fill the liquid with the space (S) of the pressure container 200 or to
increase the pressure of the liquid filled in the space (S).
 [84]
Also, the kinds of the pipes composing the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30 may be differently determined
based on design conditions for achieving the different purposes. The types of valves for opening and closing the
pipes may be various.
 [85]
The high pressure hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include the storage tank 40 and the temperature
adjusting unit 50.
 [86]
The storage tank 40 stores the liquid therein before supplied via to the pressure container 200. Storage tanks
may be provided in the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30, respectively. In this embodiment, the liquid is
supplied from one storage tank 40.
 [87]
The temperature adjusting unit 50 is configured to adjust the temperature of the liquid stored in the storage tank
40. In the present embodiment, the temperature adjusting unit 50 may be provided as an independent component
from the storage tank 40 to adjust the temperature of the liquid supplied to the storage tank 40. However, the
embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited thereto.
 [88]
Alternatively, the liquid heated to a specific temperature desired by the user may be supplied to the supply line 20
and the pressure line 30 from the storage tank 40 including the temperature adjusting unit 50. Accordingly, there
is an advantage that the temperature of the liquid filled in the pressure container 200 can be adjusted in a
relatively shorter time than the method of adjusting the temperature, using the heater 200a provided in the
pressure container 200 to heat a normal temperature liquid filled in the pressure container 200.
 [89]
Especially, there is an advantage of reducing the time taken to raise the temperature of the liquid filled in the
pressure container 200 (50*C     - 75*C) or to drop the temperature of the liquid (75"C     - 4'C) in a state where the
pressure inside the pressure container is kept at 1000bar.
 [90]
The hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include the first circulation line 60 and the second circulation line
70 for connecting the storage tank 40 with the pressure container 200.

                                                             11
 [91]
The first circulation line 60 is configured to circulate the liquid filled in the pressure container 200 toward the
storage tank 40, when the liquid is supplied via the supply line 20.
 [92]
The second circulation line 70 is configured to circulate the liquid filled in the pressure container 200 toward the
storage tank 40, in a state of maintaining a target pressure when the liquid is supplied via the pressure line 30.
When the liquid is circulated via the circulation line 30, a target pressure and a target temperature may be
maintained in the pressure container 200.
 [93]
Meanwhile, when the storage tanks for supplying the liquid via the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30 is
provided for the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30, respectively, the first circulation line 60 and the second
circulation line 70 may be connected to the storage tanks, respectively. As the single storage tank 40 is provided
in this embodiment, one ends of the first circulation line 60 and the second circulation line 70 may be connected
to the pressure container 200 and the other ends are connected to the storage tank 40.
 [94]
The supply line 20, the pressure line 30, the first circulation line 60 and the second circulation line 70 may have a
diameter determined to pass a preset quantity of liquid based on design conditions there through. Although not
shown in the drawings, there may be provided a check valve, a solenoid valve and the like for controlling the
liquid flowing along the lines effectively based on design conditions. The configurations may be easily installed by
those skilled in the art based on the design conditions and the detailed descriptions of the configurations are
omitted accordingly.
 [95]
The size of the pressure container 200 may be differentiated variously. in case of a small sized pressure
container 200 having a small capacity object, the other space filled with the liquid is relatively small in a state
where the object is provided in the pressure container 200. For instance, when the overall capacity of the
pressure container 200 is 50L and the capacity of the object is 40L, the capacity of the liquid which has to be
supplied for the filling is 10L. Although the 10L liquid is supplied to the pressure container 200 via the supply line
20, the supply time may be shorter.
 [96]
However, in case of a large size pressure container 200, for instance, the capacity of the pressure container is
300L and the capacity of the object is 200L such that the capacity of the liquid which has to be supplied for the
filling may be 100L.
 [97]
As mentioned above, the supply line 20 has the diameter large enough to circulate the liquid, passing the first
circulation line 60 and the storage tank 50. Accordingly, the size of the diameter cannot but be limited. it is more
advantageous in an aspect of an overall process time to supply the 100L liquid via an auxiliary line than via the
supply line 20.
 [98]
The hydrolysis extraction apparatus may further include a filling line 90. The filling line 90 is configured to fill a
primary liquid in the pressure container 200. When the large capacity pressure container 200 is provided, the
filling line 20 has a larger diameter than the supply line 20 to fill the liquid in the pressure container 200 effectively.

                                                             12
 [99]
The liquid supplied via the filling line 90 is connected to the storage tank 40 as shown in FIG. 1 and water having
an adjusted temperature (e.g., 50*C) is supplied from the storage tank 40.
 [100]
As shown in FIG. 2, an auxiliary storage tank 40' may be provided and the liquid may be supplied via a filling line
90' provided in the auxiliary storage tank 40'. The liquid set to have a desired temperature is stored in the
storage tank 40' and the liquid is filled in the pressure container 200 directly from the storage tank 40'.
 [101]
Meanwhile, the quantity of the liquid supplied via the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30 is relatively smaller
than the quantity of the liquid supplied via the filling line 90'. Accordingly, the storage tank 40 and 40' optimized
in accordance with the capacity may be provided and the temperature of the liquid supplied from each of the
storage tanks 40 and 40' can be adjusted more effectively.
 [102]
The temperature adjusting unit 80 may be provided in the pressure line 30 to adjust the temperature of the liquid
flowing along the pressure line 30. Accordingly, the temperature of the liquid supplied via the pressure line 30 can
be adjusted effectively.
 [103]
For instance, when the liquid having a temperature of 50*C is pressed at a pressure of 1000bar, the capacity of
the pump has to be increased to 30% or more in comparison with the capacity when the normal temperature
liquid is pressured.
 [104]
Not pressing the high temperature liquid, the temperature of the liquid is raised by the heat applied to the liquid
flowing along the pressure line 30 in a state of pressing the liquid at 1000bar. Accordingly, there is an advantage
that the liquid having the required temperature can be supplied, although the pump (P) having a relatively small
capacity is provided in the pressure line 3.
 [105]
Accordingly, the normal temperature liquid is supplied from the storage tank 40 or the auxiliary storage and
pressed by the pump. After that, the pressured liquid is heated by the temperature adjusting unit 80 to be
supplied to the pressure container 200.
 [106]
However, liquid having a lower temperature than a target temperature adjusted by the temperature adjusting unit
50 of the storage tank 40 based on conditions required by the pressure container 200 may be supplied and
pressed by the pump. After that, the liquid is additionally heated by the temperature adjusting unit 80 of the
pressure line 30 and supplied to the pressure container 200.
 [107]
When using the high pressure hydrolysis extraction apparatus according to the embodiments of the disclosure,
the liquid having the adjusted temperature can be supplied via the supply line 20 and the pressure line 30 in a
moment. As the pressure/temperature may be adjusted immediately, effective hydrolysis for the object may be
possible.
 [108]

                                                            13
The liquid having the adjusted temperature can be circulated through the first circulation line 60, the second
circulation line 70 and the storage tank 40 and the temperature applied to the object can be maintained, not
dropped by external environments such as heat emission through the pressure container.
 [109]
Especially, when performing a temperature raising step (S30) and a temperature lowering step (S40), there is an
advantage that the temperature can be adjusted by circulating the liquid through the pressure line 30 and the
second circulation line 70, in a state where the pressure of the pressure container is maintained at a critical
pressure or more.
 [110]
In addition, the filling line 90 and 90' and the auxiliary storage tank 40' are provided in accordance with the
capacity of the pressure container 200, such that the quantity of the heat supplied from the entire system can be
utilized effectively.
 [111]
The hydrolysis apparatus according to the embodiments of the disclosure may further include a pressure
adjusting line 60a connected to the pressure container 200 to adjust a pressure inside the pressure container 200
as the liquid is discharged.
 [112]
The hydrolysis extraction apparatus include the first circulation line 60 and the second circulation line 70 for
discharging the liquid from the pressure container 200. The discharging of the liquid can adjust the pressure
inside the pressure container 200. However, the minute pressure inside the pressure container 200 may be
adjusted by a pressure adjusting line 60a having a relatively smaller diameter than the first circulation line 60 and
the second circulation line 70, to adjust the minute pressure based on the capacity of the pressure container 200.
 [113]
Specifically, the state of the pressure container has to be kept at a temperature of 50*C and a pressure of
1000bar for a preset time period (e.g., 24 hours) while the object is hydrolyzed. In the process of maintaining the
temperature (adjusting the temperature, using the heater and the temperature of the liquid), the pressure inside
the pressure container changes minutely and the change has to be compensated. Also, the pressure inside the
pressure container changes minutely based on changes in volumes of the airtight closed container and the
change has to be compensated.
 [114]
That is, the pressure is minutely hunted in the process of maintaining a specific pressure out of the entire
processes. It is important to reduce the hunting of the pressure so as to improve hydrolysis efficiency and the
discharging of the liquid is accurately adjusted via the pressure adjusting line 60a, only to minimize the hunting of
the pressure.
 [115]
Meanwhile, it is possible to discharge the liquid via the first circulation line 60 or the second circulation line 70
mentioned above to as to control the pressure hunting. In case of using the large capacity of the pressure
container 200, the pressure of the pressure container 200 may be controlled more accurately through the
pressure adjusting line 60a having a smaller diameter than the first circulation line 60 and the second circulation
line 70.
 [116]

                                                             14
The other end of the pressure adjusting line 60a is connected to the first circulation line 60 and the liquid
discharged along the pressure adjusting line 60a is drawn into the storage tank 40 along the first circulation line
60, or connected to the second circulation line 70 or discharged outside. Also, a valve (e.g., a solenoid valve)
may be provided in the pressure adjusting line 60a to open and close the pressure adjusting line 60.
[117]
Hereinafter, a method for hydrolyzing the object, using the hydrolysis extraction apparatus, will be described.
[118]
The method according to the embodiment of the disclosure adjusts the temperature of the circulating liquid and
can effectively hydrolyze the object more rapidly than the method hydrolyzing the object, using only the heater
200a.
[119]
The effective adjustment of the temperature may be possible by steps of 1) raising the temperature of the object
to a preset hydrolysis proper temperature, 2) balancing the temperature and the pressure in the process of
maintaining the pressure and temperature of the liquid at a critical pressure or more and a hydrolysis proper
value, 3) raising the temperature in a state of maintaining the critical pressure or more, 4) circulating the liquid
having the temperature adjusted in four temperature lowering steps in the state of maintaining the critical
pressure or more.
[120]
Specifically, the hydrolysis method using the hydrolysis extraction apparatus includes a liquid filling step (S10), a
pressing step (S20), a temperature raising step (S30), a temperature dropping step (S40) and a pressure
reducing step (S50).
[121]
Meanwhile, the object for the hydrolysis may be various decomposition materials (e.g., protein materials and
carbohydrate materials). In the present disclosure, the object is animal protein (e.g., protein from meat). The
object (e.g., beef) is ground and the flexible container accommodates the ground beef together with water and
enzyme (0).
[122]
A vessel 11 having a plurality of holes formed therein accommodates the flexible container having the object,
water and enzyme (0) and the vessel 11 accommodating the flexible container is conveyed into the body 211 of
the pressure container (@). The body 211 accommodating the vessel 11 moves toward the hydrolysis extraction
apparatus according to the embodiments of the disclosure. When the lid 212 of the pressure container 200 is
coupled to the body 211, the pressure container 200 is closed airtight with the vessel provided therein.
[123]
The liquid filling step (S10) fills the liquid having a second temperature in the pressure container 1
accommodating the object.
[124]
In this embodiment, the injected liquid is not limited to water and also the enzyme can be varied according to the
object.
[125]
The hydrolysis proper temperature as a reference for the second temperature may be determined based on 1) a
temperature having the highest enzyme usage to promote activation of dissolution caused by the enzyme, 2) a

                                                             15
temperature which generates no displacement of an index material (e.g., carbohydrate, protein, fat, vitamin and
index materials) contained in the object (e.g., beef), 3) a temperature which increases the quantity of molecule
motion of water as a carrier of enzyme. In this embodiment, the hydrolysis proper temperature may be 50*C.
 [126]
A temperature as a reference of a third temperature at which the enzyme starts to be destructed may be 75*C.
 [127]
After the object is provided in the pressure container, the pressure container is closed airtight and water is
injected to the pressure container via the supply line 20.
 [128]
At this time, the water injected into the pressure container is primarily supplied to the storage tank 40, with a
temperature raised to a second temperature preset by the temperature adjusting unit 50 and supplied to the
pressure container via the supply line 20.
 [129]
The second temperature may be determined to be the hydrolysis proper temperature of the object (e.g., 50'C) or
higher to make the heat loss or the object reach the hydrolysis proper temperature.
 [130]
Generally, when heating the pressure container 1 accommodating the normal temperature water injected therein
to the hydrolysis proper temperature, using the heater 200a, the heat generated from the heater 200a heats the
water filled in the pressure container 1 and the object is heated as the temperature of the water rises.
 [131]
In contrast, in the present disclosure, as the liquid having a temperature raised to the second temperature is
supplied, the heat can be supplied to the object more effectively than the heat supplied only by the heater 200a.
 [132]
To transmit the heat of the object effectively, the liquid filling step (S10) includes a liquid injecting step (S1 1) and
a high temperature liquid circulating step (S12).
 [133]
The liquid injecting step (S1 1) injects the liquid into the pressure container 200. In this instance, the liquid
supplied to the pressure container 200 may have a normal temperature or an adjusted temperature. It is
preferred that the temperature of the liquid supplied to the pressure container 200 may be adjusted to the
hydrolysis proper temperature (50*C) mentioned above or higher.
 [134]
In case of using the small capacity pressure container 200 mentioned above, the liquid having the temperature
adjusted in the storage tank 40 may be supplied via the supply line 20. Alternatively, the liquid having the
temperature adjusted in the storage tank 40 may be supplied via the filling line 90.
 [135]
In case of using the large capacity pressure container 200, a large quantity of the liquid having the temperature
adjusted in the storage tank (40', see FIG. 5) storing the liquid therein may be prepared and the large quantity of
the liquid may be supplied via the auxiliary filling line 90'.
 [136]

                                                             16
In other words, a series of processes for a plurality of airtight closed containers may be designed in various ways
according to the capacity of the pressure container.
 [137]
The high temperature liquid circulating step (S11) circulates the liquid having a second temperature, until the
temperature of the object filled in the pressure container 200 reaches the hydrolysis proper temperature.
Specifically, in this embodiment, the temperature adjusting unit 50 adjusts the temperature of the liquid stored in
the storage tank 40 to 50*C. The water circulates through the supply line 20, the pressure container 200, the first
circulation line 60 and the storage tank 40.
 [138]
For instance, when the capacity of the pressure container 200 is 300L and the capacity of the object is 200L, the
capacity of the filled liquid is 100L. Additional heat has to be provided so as to raise the temperature of the 200L
object to 50*C.
 [139]
In other words, if the additional quantity of the heat is not supplied to the pressure container 200 filled with the
100L liquid, the liquid having the temperature of 50*C or higher in the storage tank 50 may be supplied to the
pressure container 200 via the supply line 20.
 [140]
In this instance, the pressure inside the pressure container can be increased as the heat is supplied by the heater
200a. The liquid is discharged via a pipeline connected to the pressure container or an auxiliary pipeline to
enable the balancing of the pressure.
 [141]
The liquid having passed the first circulation line 60 once the temperature falls may be drawn into the storage
tank 40. The temperature adjusting unit 50 may supply proper heat to maintain a desired temperature of the liquid.
 [142]
The liquid having passed the first circulation line 60, with the lowered temperature, may be drawn into the storage
tank 40. The temperature adjusting unit 50 may supply a proper heat to maintain 50*C of the liquid stored in the
storage tank 40.
 [143]
Accordingly, the heat with a preset temperature is applied to the object continuously, to make the object reach
the hydrolysis proper temperature. In the present embodiment, the second temperature is raised or lowered and
adjusted according to the pressure and temperature of the pressure container in the supplying step.
 [144]
Moreover, when adjusting the temperature additionally, using the heater 200a, more accurate temperature
control may be enabled.
 [145]
When the liquid is supplied via the auxiliary filling line 90' and the storage tank 40, the quantity of the circulated
liquid is relatively smaller than the quantity of the supplied liquid. Accordingly, in the filling step, the liquid of the
storage tank 40' is supplied. In the circulating step, the liquid is circulated via the supply line 20 and the storage
tank 40 connected to the first circulation line 60.
 [146]

                                                           17
The high temperature liquid circulating step (S12) closes a valve (V) installed in each of the circulation line 20
and the first circulation line 60, when determining that the temperature inside the object reaches 50'C, such that
the water having the temperature of 50"C can be filled in the pressure container 200.
 [147]
The pressing step (S20) pressures and injects the liquid into the pressure container, to raise the pressure inside
the pressure container to a second pressure. The second pressure is variable based on types of the object and
enzyme and the hydrolysis conditions. In the present embodiment, the second pressure is 1000bar.
 [148]
Here, the second pressure may be determined based on conditions set 1) to improve the quantity of molecule
motion of the water as a carrier of enzyme, (2) to degasify the dissolved gas to prevent the decay of the object
during the hydrolysis process, 3) to maintain the pressure determined to maintain the shape of the enzyme and
not to destruct the enzyme.
 [149]
In other words, the second pressure may be determined as a critical pressure or more of a solvent based on the
conditions and the second temperature.
 [150]
Specifically, the temperature of 50*C and the pressure of 1000bar are applied to the object in the liquid filling
step and the pressing step. Under the conditions set not to destruct the enzyme, a high pressure which is a
critical pressure or higher is applied and the dissolved gas of the object is degasified. The molecule motion of the
water as the enzyme carrier is promoted the enzyme hydrolyzes the object rapidly.
 [151]
The pressure and temperature has to be maintained for a specific time period to hydrolyze the object. Specifically,
the temperature of the liquid may be influenced according to the heat emission or absorption in an object
hydrolyzing step. The pressure is changed minutely according to the changing temperature of the liquid.
 [152]
Accordingly, the embodiment may control the temperature, using the heater 200a. The pressure inside the
pressure container 200 may be balanced for a required time period, using the liquid injection and discharging via
the pressure line 30 and the second circulation line 70. The pressure may be balanced by the discharging of the
liquid via a pressure adjusting line 60a.
 [153]
When injecting the liquid via the pressure line 30, the liquid having a preset temperature based on the
temperature of the liquid adjusted by the storage tank 40 or the temperature adjusting unit 80 is injected, only to
balance the temperature and pressure.
 [154]
The pressure and temperature may be balanced, using the heater 200a and the temperature adjustment of the
circulated liquid. Although external environments are changed, the hydrolysis of the object can be quantized.
 [155]
More specifically, the pressing step (S20) according to the embodiment of the disclosure further includes a
pressing step (S21) and a pressing circulation step (S22).
 [156]

                                                          18
The pressing step (S21) applies a pressure to the object by injecting the liquid to the object.
[157]
The pressing circulation step (S22) circulates the liquid in a state where the temperature of 50*C and the
pressure of 1000bar are applied to the pressure container 200. In this instance, the water having the temperature
of 50*C provides the temperature of 50*C and the pressure of 1000bar to the object continuously, while
circulated along the pressing line 30, the pressure container 200, the second circulation line 70 and the storage
tank 40.
[158]
When the water is not circulated, the temperature inside the pressure container may be gradually and
continuously lowered by the heat loss caused in the hydrolysis step and the heat emission outside the pressure
container. Accordingly, the water having the temperature of 50"C may be circulated through the pressing line 30
and the second circulation line 70, in a state where the pressure inside the container is maintained, such that
more effective hydrolysis can be induced.
[159]
Moreover, the water having the temperature of 50*C or higher is pressed in the storage tank 40 and supplied to
the pressure container. The water having a temperature of 50*C or lower is heated by the temperature adjusting
unit 80 and supplied to the pressure container. The water supplied from a liquid supply source (not shown) is
heated by the temperature adjusting unit 80 and supplied to the pressure container.
[160]
The temperature raising step (S30) raises the temperature of the water provided in the pressure container to a
third temperature for destruct the enzyme inside the container. The third temperature may be variable based on
the kind of the enzyme and other conditions. The object is dissolved by the enzyme after hydrolyzed.
[161]
Especially, the temperature is raised in a state where the second pressure (the critical pressure, 1000bar) applied
to the object in the hydrolyzing step is maintained.
[162]
Accordingly, the dissolved oxygen (DO) inside the flexible container accommodating the object may be not be
spread in the flexible container and fat from the hydrolyzed results reacts with the dissolved oxygen to prevent
the decay of the object.
[163]
The rise of the temperature may be realized by the hat supplied by the heart 200a. or, it may be realized by the
circulation of the liquid having the third temperature keeping the critical pressure or more via the pressing line 30
and the second circulation line 70 after the temperature of the liquid stored in the storage tank 40 is raised to a
third temperature or higher by the temperature adjusting unit 50. In addition, the two cases may be performed
simultaneously for more effective temperature rise in a more rapid time.
[164]
In case of using the heater 200a, the temperature of the liquid is raised by the heater 200a and the pressure of
the liquid inside the pressure container 200 may be increased. For balancing that, the liquid may be partially
discharged outside via the pipeline mentioned above or the auxiliary pipeline.
[165]

                                                            19
When using the pressure container having a large capacity, it takes much time to raise the temperature inside of
the pressure container to the second temperature, using the heater 200a. Accordingly, the high
temperature/pressure liquid may be supplied via the pressing line 30 continuously and discharged via the second
circulation line 70 at the same time, such that the temperature inside the pressure container 200 can be raised.
 [166]
When the temperature is raised in the state of maintaining the pressure as mentioned above, the pressure is
improved and adjusted via at least one of the first circulation line 60, the second circulation line 70 and the
pressure adjusting line 60a, while monitoring the increase of the pressure.
 [167]
The temperature lowering step (S40) lowers the pressure of the pressure container to a first pressure and the
temperature of the pressure container 200 to a second temperature lower than the first temperature after the
second temperature is kept for the second period. Specifically, the present embodiment lowers the temperature
of the liquid to the first temperature, in a state of maintaining the pressure as 1000bar. Here, the first temperature
is determined as a temperature at which the density of the liquefied object accommodated in the container is the
highest (4C at which the density of water is the highest).
 [168]
Moreover, the temperature is lowered with the pressure kept as 1000bar while the liquid having a lowered
temperature may be circulated via the pressing line 30 and the second circulation line 70, similar to the
temperature raising step.
 [169]
When the cooling of the object and the pressure removing are performed to secure the object under the third
temperature and second pressure conditions of the temperature raising step, the dissolved gas inside the flexible
container may be spread in the flexible container and reacted with fat from the hydrolysis object and the fat is
oxidized.
 [170]
Accordingly, the cooling of the object is performed in a state of keeping the second pressure (the critical pressure)
and fat oxidization of the object hydrolyzed in the airtight closed space is suppressed maximally.
 [171]
Specifically, the high temperature liquid is discharged via the second circulation line 70, in a state of keeping the
pressure. At the same time, the low temperature liquid is continuously supplied via the pressing line 30 in a state
of keeping the pressure.
 [172]
The supplied liquid may have a third temperature (4*C in this embodiment) or lower based on the capacity of the
pressure container 200 and the volume of the object.
 [173]
Once the temperature lowering step (S40) lowers the temperature of the water inside the object to the lowest
temperature of 4*C, the pressure reducing step (50) reduced the pressure to a first pressure (e.g., an
atmospheric pressure) lower than the second pressure and places the object out of the pressure container 200 to
secure a final hydrolyzed object.
 [174]

                                                           20
Therefore, the pressure removing and the cooling are performed separately. In a state where the pressure is
maintained to suppress the activation of the dissolved gas, the cooling is performed to keep the highest density of
the liquid (water). As the cooling is performed in a state where the density of the liquid (water) is the highest, the
decay of the object caused by the dissolved gas may be minimized advantageously.
 [175]
Specifically, once the hydrolysis is completed, the lid 212 of the pressure container 200 is open and the body 211
of the pressure container 200 is moved outward from the hydrolysis extraction apparatus (0). Hence, the vessel
11 is moved outward from the body 211 (@) and the flexible container (P) is taken out from the vessel 11, only to
get the final hydrolyzed object.
 [176]
In the embodiments of the disclosure, the temperature lowering step (S40) may be omitted and the object can be
cooled after the pressure reducing step (S50). As shown in FIG. 5, the enzyme is destructed at 75'C and the
pressure of the pressure container 200 is removed. In this instance, the flexible container (P) maintains a high
temperature state and the high temperature vessel is injected to a cooler 100 to cool the vessel.
 [177]
Types and cooling methods of the cooler may be various. Considering convenience on the line supplied in a
horizontal direction, the cooler 100 may be provided horizontally and stands vertically after the vessel 11 is
introduced, such that it can cool the object while rotating.
 [178]
Meanwhile, the hydrolyzed object is provided in a liquid state. The cooling in that state can be performed more
stably and effectively than a case where he capacity of the object is large (e.g., 200L) and a cooler standing
vertically is rotated to cool the liquidized object.
 [179]
In the embodiment, as the cooling is performed outside the hydrolysis extraction apparatus, the pressure
container 200 need not be cooled. Accordingly, when hydrolyzing a plurality of objects serially, the pressure
container 200 can maintain a predeterminedly heated state. When a new object is drawn into the apparatus, the
temperature of the object is the hydrolysis proper temperature (e.g., 50"C) such that the required time can be
reduced.
 [180]
In the hydrolysis method of the present disclosure, the hydrolysis completion and the enzyme destruction are
performed. After that, the pressure and temperature inside the pressure container is not reduced to at
atmospheric pressure and a normal temperature in a process of gaining an object. As the temperature lowering
and the pressure lowering are performed separately, the dissolved gas contained in the airtight container
accommodating the object may be spread in the airtight closed container according to the strengthened pressure,
only to prevent the dissolution with fat.

                                                          21
 [181]
Various variations and modifications of the refrigerator described above are possible in the component parts
and/or arrangements of the subject combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure, the drawings
and the appended claims. In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts and/or arrangements,
alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.
 [182]
The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting at least in part of'. When
interpreting statements in this specification, and claims which include the term "comprising", it is to be understood
that other features that are additional to the features prefaced by this term in each statement or claim may also
be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted in similar manner.
 [183]
In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject matter that is not within the scope of the
claims of the current application. That subject matter should be readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art
and may assist in putting into practice the invention as defined in the claims of this application.
 [184]
In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other external documents, or other
sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the
invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as
an admission that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of
the common general knowledge in the art.

                                                            22
   Claims
 [Claim 1]
A super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus comprising:a pressure container comprising a body and a lid
coupled to the body to close a space formed therein to accommodate an object;a contact unit configured to open
and close the body, while moving the lid forward and backward; anda pipeline unit comprising a supply line for
supplying a liquid for filling in the pressure container and a discharge line for discharging the liquid of the
pressure container.
 [Claim 2]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:a convey unit comprising an
introducing portion for supplying the object to the body, when the body is moved forward; and a discharging
portion for discharging the object provided in the body outside the body,wherein the body is movable forward and
backward, andthe lid closes the body when the body is arranged in a rear side.
 [Claim 3]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 1, wherein the contact unit comprises a pusher die
fixed to an upper end of a base; a guide bar coupled to the lid through the push die to couple and decouple the
lid to the body, while moving rightward and leftward; and an inserted portion inserted between the lid and the
pusher die, when the lid is coupled to the body, to prevent the lid from being pushed backward by a high pressure
in the body.
 [Claim 4]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 3, further comprising:a frame for fixing a pair of pusher
dies to an upper end of the base,wherein right and left surfaces of the body are open and the pair of the lids are
coupled to the body, andthe contact units are provided in right and left portions of the pressure container.
 [Claim 5]
A super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus comprising:a pressure container to accomodate a hydrolysis
object;a supply line for supplying a liquid configured to fill in a pressure container; anda pressing line for
additionally supplying to the pressure container accommodating the liquid a liquid to apply a pressure to the
hydrolysis object.
 [Claim 6]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:a storage tank in which the liquid
supplied via the supply line is stored; anda temperature adjusting unit for adjusting a temperature of the liquid
stored in the storage tank.
 [Claim 7]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 6, further comprising:a first circulation line for
connecting the storage tank and the pressure container with each other.
 [Claim 8]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:a storage tank in which the liquid
supplied via the pressing line is stored; anda temperature adjusting unit for adjusting a temperature of the liquid
stored in the storage tank.

                                                              23
 [Claim 9]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 8, further comprising:a second circulation line for
connecting the storage tank and the pressure container with each other.
 [Claim 10]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 9, wherein a temperature adjusting unit for adjusting a
temperature of the liquid supplied via the pressing line is provided in the pressing line.
 [Claim 11]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:a storage tank in which the liquid
supplied via the supply line and the pressing line is stored; anda temperature adjusting unit for adjusting a
temperature of the liquid stored in the storage tank.
 [Claim 12]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 11, further comprising:a third circulation line for
circulating the liquid of the pressure container toward the storage tank, when the liquid is supplied via the supply
line; anda fourth circulation line for circulating the liquid of the pressure container toward the storage tank, when
the liquid is supplied via the pressing line, wherein the storage tank and the pressure container are connected
with each other.
 [Claim 13]
The super critical hydrolysis extraction apparatus of claim 5, further comprising:a pressure adjusting line
connected with the pressure container to adjust a pressure inside the pressure container while the liquid filled in
the pressure container is discharged.
 [Claim 14]
A hydrolysis extraction method comprising: a liquid filling step for filling a liquid having a second temperature in a
pressure container accommodating a hydrolysis object;a pressing step for increasing a pressure inside the
pressure container to a second pressure by force-injecting the liquid into the pressure container filled with the
liquid; anda temperature raising step for raising the temperature to a third temperature configured to destruct
enzyme in the hydrolysis object, in a state of maintaining the second pressure after maintaining the pressure of
the pressure container at the second pressure for the first period.
 [Claim 15]
The hydrolysis extraction method of claim 14, further comprising:a temperature lowering step for lowering the
temperature of the liquid to a first temperature lower than the second temperature in a state of maintaining the
pressure of the pressure container at the second pressure after maintaining the pressure container at the second
pressure and a third temperature for the second period, the temperature lowering step being performed after the
temperature raising step.
 [Claim 16]
The hydrolysis extraction method of claim 15, further comprising:a pressure reducing step for reducing the
pressure of the pressure container to a first pressure lower than the second pressure.
 [Claim 17]
The hydrolysis extraction method of claim 16, further comprising:a cooling step for cooling the object, the cooling
step being performed after the pressure reducing step.

                                                          24
 [Claim 18]
The hydrolysis extraction method of claim 14, further comprising:a liquid injecting step for injecting the liquid to
the pressure container; anda high temperature liquid circulating step for circulating the liquid having the first
temperature or higher to raise the temperature of the hydrolysis object.
 [Claim 19]
The hydrolysis extraction method of claim 14, wherein the pressing step further comprising:a pressing step for
increasing the pressure inside the pressure container to a second pressure by force-injecting liquid into the
pressure container filled with the liquid; anda pressing circulating step for circulating the liquid while maintaining
the pressure of the pressure container at the second pressure.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
