                                               20
Abstract
The invention relates to a flashing to provide a weather resistant seal or barrier, which allows
for variable substrate movement around external areas of a building where two similar or
dissimilar substrates are joined together. The flashing includes a body, a pivotal attachment
member extending from the body and able to pivot relative to the body, and a second
attachment member joined to the body and including an attachment surface for attaching to a
substrate when the flashing is in use.

                                 116
                                                        6a 7
                                                     6b
               4                                       2 ~
                                             IL               3
                          __            -   JI
                          ___          '/1
     Ii
    'I
      /                                     //
                                    //
                                //
                      //                ~                       1
               1/                             'I
      y~, ~                                    'I
                      /
          /                                    It
       I                                     //
       I                                  /
                                //                           2
       I
       I                 ~
                             //
                                           '1'
       I        //                /1
        I //
        ~                 /1
                                               I,
                                            ~1
                       '-----                 /
 /
I,,      /
          /
                                        .1/
                                     /1
                                  //
                              1/
          I         '
          i,,   //             ~'                 Ii
          ~-'              /                     U
                                        -I,
   1'     Il
( //
             /                                    ii
                                            //
           I                   //
                   1/
                       //            /
            I/i                  /
            ~,                /
   I

                                                  1
                                   AN EDGE SEAL FLASHING
Field of the Invention
The invention relates to an edge seal or flashing to provide a weather resistant seal or barrier,
which allows for variable substrate movement around windows, doors, and other external
areas of the building where two similar or dissimilar substrates are joined together.
Background
Flashings are commonly used to seal the join between the joinery of doors or windows and
the cladding of a building.     However, such flashings are typically designed to seal a join
between two substrates joined together at a particular angle, such as 900 for example.
Therefore, because the angle between a window frame and the adjoining wall cladding is
different from the angle between a window frame and the adjoining window sill, it has been
necessary to use a different type of flashing for each different purpose.
Similarly, known flashings are designed for use with particular substrates only. Therefore,
where a building comprises different types of cladding, different flashings must be purchased
to be suitable for use with the different claddings.
Therefore, because of the limitations of known flashings, it has been necessary for retailers to
stock many different types of flashings having different angles, and being of different size and
suitability for attaching to different substrates.   It has also been necessary for installing
contractors to carefully determine the various different types of flashing required for a
building.
Another problem with known flashings is that they typically have large surface areas of uPVC,
which makes them highly susceptible to thermal expansion and contraction due to solar
radiation as these surfaces are subject to temperature fluctuations.         Furthermore, these
surfaces can be exposed to different amounts of temperature fluctuation depending on the

                                                  2
amount of light that contacts each surface. For example, a sill flashing typically has greater
exposure to the sun than a jamb flashing, so the thermal expansion and contraction of the two
flashings is different. Because these flashings are joined at their ends, such as at the corners
of the window, the different rates of expansion and contraction can result in hairline cracks
forming in the plaster covering the flashing. These cracks are unsightly and allow moisture to
enter the cracks. To reduce the negative effects of this scenario, it has been necessary to
insert corner soakers in each corner of a window flashing at the jamb/sill junction to prevent
water entering behind the cladding. The process involves scouring out a small chase through
the plaster at the internal corner junction where the jamb and sill flashings meet. A bead of
sealant must be applied to the scoured out junction, and painted with two coats of the exterior
finish coloured product. This will allow for future movement at this junction. The insertion of
corner soakers underneath this junction provides protection from moisture ingress.
Another disadvantage of known flashings is that water can accumulate between the upstand
of the flashing behind the joinery. Because known flashings extend up behind the joinery and
are not adhered to the joinery, movement between the different substrates, and capillary
action makes it is possible for the water to move behind the flashing and penetrate the
cladding of the building.
Furthermore, because known flashings are unable to compensate for movement between the
cladding and the joinery, an installed flashing has a tendency to pull away from the one or
both substrates to which it was attached, creating openings in the join through which moisture
can penetrate. Such differential movement can be the result of the different rates of thermal
expansion and contraction of the different substrates, or it can be the result of small tremors,
or post construction movement over time.
It is an object of the present invention to go at least some way towards overcoming the above
described disadvantages of the prior art or to at least provide the public with a useful
alternative.

                                                   3
Summary of the Invention
The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting at least in
part of". When interpreting each statement and claim in the specification that includes the
term "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be
present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same
manner.
 In a first aspect, the invention provides a flashing comprising: a body; a pivotable attachment
member having opposing first and second surfaces; and a second attachment member
having a first surface and an opposing attachment surface.            Each surface of the second
attachment member has a first edge, an opposing second edge, and a central area at or near
the midpoint between the first and second edges.           The body has a first end and a second
end with the pivotable attachment member extending from the first end of the body and the
second attachment member extending from the second end of the body. The body is adapted
to allow the pivotable attachment member to pivot about the first end of the body.
Optionally, the body is a substantially elongate rigid member. The first end of the body is
joined to the pivotable attachment member via a first flexible joint and the second end of the
body is joined to the second attachment member via a second flexible joint.
Alternatively, the body may be an angular body comprising: a first leg having a front surface, a
rear surface, a first end and a distal end, the distal end of the first leg forming the first end of
the body; and also comprising a second leg having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end
and a distal end, the second leg forming the second end of the body and being joined to the
distal end of the first leg at an angle.     In this form, the pivotable attachment member is a
flexible member that is joined to the distal end of the first leg and is adapted to pivot about the
distal end of the first leg, preferably via a flexible joint or hinge. The second leg is joined to
the second attachment member via a flexible joint.
 Preferably, the pivotable attachment member is a flexible tape. More preferably, an adhesive

                                                  4
surface is provided on at least one of the first and second surfaces of the pivotable
attachment member.
 In another variation of the first aspect of the invention, the body is an angular body
comprising: a first leg and a second leg joined together at an angle. Both the first and the
second legs have a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end. The distal end
of the first leg forms the first end of the body and the second leg forms the second end of the
body. The first leg is joined to the pivotable attachment member via a first flexible joint and
the second leg is joined to the second attachment member via a second flexible joint.
 Preferably, the first and second leg are joined in a substantially perpendicular arrangement to
form a substantially L-shaped body.
More preferably, the second flexible joint is a compression joint. Preferably, the second leg of
the body is substantially parallel with the second attachment member. The compression joint
may be formed from at least one arcuate compression member that joins the second leg of
the body to a front surface of the second attachment member. Alternatively, the compression
joint may be formed from a pair of arcuate compression members positioned substantially
adjacent to each other and substantially equidistant along their lengths.       In this form, it is
preferred that a first arcuate compression member is connected to the second leg of the body
at or near the distal end of the second leg and is also connected to a central area of the front
surface of the second attachment member; and wherein a second arcuate compression
member is connected to the second leg of the body at or near the first end of the second leg
and is also connected to the second attachment member at or near a first edge of the second
attachment member to form a chamber having side walls defined by the compression
members, the second leg of the body of the flashing, and the second attachment member.
 Preferably, a plurality of apertures are provided along the length of the pivotable attachment
member of the flashing.
Alternatively, the pivotable attachment member extends from the first end of the body at an
attachment edge of the pivotable attachment member and the pivotable attachment member

                                                 5
comprises a plurality of recesses along its opposing free edge to form a substantially toothed
or serrated free edge.
More preferably, the attachment surface of the second attachment member comprises an
adhesive surface. The adhesive surface optionally comprises double-sided adhesive tape
having one adhesive surface adhered to the second attachment member and having a
removable covering over its opposing adhesive surface.
 In yet another preferred form, the invention provides a flashing comprising a body having first
and second legs each having first ends and distal ends, wherein the legs are joined together
at their first ends to form a substantially L-shaped body; wherein the distal end of the first leg
is joined to a pivotable attachment member via a flexible joint and wherein the second leg is
joined to a second attachment member via a compression joint.
 Preferably, the compression joint is formed by at least one flexible compression member
extending between the second leg of the body and the second attachment member. More
preferably, the compression joint is formed from a pair of substantially arcuate compression
members positioned substantially adjacent and substantially equidistant from each other,
each compression member having first and second ends, wherein the first end of each
compression member is joined to the second leg of the body of the flashing, and the second
end of each compression member is joined to the second attachment member.
This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features referred
to indicated in this specification, either individually or collectively, and in any or all
combinations of any two or more of those parts, elements or features.       Furthermore, where
specific integers are mentioned within the specification that have known equivalents in the
field of technology to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be
incorporated herein as if individually described.
The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
following gives examples only.

                                               6
Brief Description of the Drawings
The invention may be more fully understood by way of example only having reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of flashing according to the invention
Figure 2 is an end view of the embodiment of Figure 1 and showing the pivotable attachment
member in a first position;
Figure 3 is an end view of the embodiment shown in Figure 1 and showing the pivotable
attachment member in another position;
Figure 4 is an end view of the embodiment shown in Figures 1 to 3 and showing the pivotable
attachment member in yet another position;
Figure 5 is a cross-sectional view from one side showing the flashing of Figure 1 being used
to seal a join between aluminium window joinery and a window sill;
Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view from one side showing the flashing of Figure 1 being used
to seal a join between wooden joinery and a window sill; and
Figure 7 is a cross-sectional view from above showing the flashing of Figure 1 being used to
seal a join between aluminium window joinery and a window jamb.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Forms of the Invention
A first embodiment of flashing of the invention is shown in Figures 1 to 7.        The flashing
comprises an elongate extrusion wherein each component of the flashing extends along the
length of the extrusion. However, for simplicity, the configuration of the flashing is described
herein as if the flashing were being viewed from one end.

                                                  7
The flashing 1 comprises a rigid, angular body having a first end and a second end. The
body comprises a first leg 2a having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal
end. The distal end of the first leg 2a forms the first end of the body 2. The body 2 also
comprises a second leg 2b, which is provided at the second end of the body. The second leg
2b also has a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end. The first end of the
second leg 2b is joined to the first end of the first leg 2a in an angular arrangement.
 Preferably, the first and second legs are of substantially the same size and are joined at a 900
angle so as to be perpendicular to each other to form a substantially L-shaped body.
 However, it is envisaged that the first and second legs may alternatively be of different sizes
and/or are joined at a different angle.
A flexible joint 5 is connected to the distal end of the first leg 2a of the body 2. The flexible
joint 5 acts as a hinge and connects a pivotable attachment member 4 to the body 2 in a
pivotal arrangement. This arrangement allows the pivotable attachment member to pivot with
respect to the first leg 2a of the body 2 to vary the angle between the pivotable attachment
member 4 and the first leg 2a, as shown in Figures 2 to 4.
 Preferably, the flexible joint is formed from rubber, silicone, or the like. Preferably, the flexible
joint is the same thickness as the first leg 2a of the flashing, or it may be thinner or thicker
than the first leg.
The flexible joint or hinge 5 allows for movement between dissimilar substrates without
compromising the seal provided by the flashing and without causing damage to the flashing
itself. This is particularly important where the dissimilar substrates have different thermal
expansion and contraction properties and will, therefore, move at different rates when subject
to temperature variations.
The pivotable attachment member is attached to the flexible joint or hinge 5 along its
attachment edge.
The pivotable attachment member is biased to a first position in which the attachment
member lies in the same plane as the first leg 2a of the body 2, as shown in Figure 2.

                                                8
 However, by pivoting around the flexible joint or hinge 5, the pivotable attachment member
can adopt almost any position relative to the first leg of the body so that the flashing can be
used to seal joins between two substrates regardless of the angle at which the substrates are
joined, as shown in Figures 3 and 4.        Each of these alternative positions are referred to
herein as a 'second position'.
 In a preferred form, the pivotable attachment member is a rigid member.          However, it is
envisaged that the pivotable attachment member could also be made of a flexible material.
The pivotable attachment member comprises a first surface and a second surface. In one
embodiment, an adhesive surface is provided on at least one of the first and second surfaces
of the pivotable attachment member.
 In a preferred form, a plurality of apertures or punchings 8 are provided on the pivotable
attachment member, as shown in Figure 1. The apertures 8 shown are a combination of
triangular and circular shaped openings that are evenly spaced along the pivotable
attachment member. However, the apertures may take the form of any suitable shape as
would be readily apparent to a person skilled in the art. The apertures are designed to
remove as much of the material from the pivotable attachment member as possible in order to
reduce its total surface area without compromising its structural integrity. The apertures also
provide the additional benefit of assisting the keying in of plaster over the flashing to help
attach the pivotable attachment member to a substrate.
 In an alternative embodiment, the pivotable attachment member is attached to the flexible
joint 5 along its attachment edge and includes a plurality of recesses along its opposing free
edge 12 to form a substantially toothed or serrated free edge 12. Again, the recesses are
designed to remove as much of the material from the pivotable attachment member as
possible in order to reduce its total surface area without compromising its structural integrity.
The recesses also provide the additional benefit of assisting the keying in of plaster over the
flashing to help attach the pivotable attachment member to a substrate.
The body 2 of the flashing is connected to a flexible joint 6. In the embodiment illustrated, the

                                                  9
flexible joint is a compression joint, which is connected to a second attachment member 3.
The second attachment member 3 is substantially planar and comprises a front surface 3a
and an opposing attachment surface 3b.          Each surface of the second attachment member
has a first edge 3c, an opposing second edge 3d, and a central area at or near the midpoint
between the first and second edges. A pair of arcuate compression members 6a, 6b connect
the rear surface of the second leg 2b of the body 2 to the front surface of the second
attachment member 3 to form the compression joint, as shown in Figure 2.
In the preferred form, a first substantially arcuate compression member 6a is connected to the
second leg 2b of the body 2 at or near the distal end of the second leg 2b and is also
connected to the central area of the front surface 3a of the second attachment member 3.
However, it is envisaged that the first compression member could, alternatively, be connected
to the second attachment member at any suitable location, as would be readily apparent to a
person skilled in the art.
A second substantially arcuate compression member 6b is connected to the second leg 2b of
the body 2 at or near the apex of the angular body 2 where the first and second legs 2a,2b
meet.    The second compression member 6b is also connected to the second attachment
member at or near the first edge 3c of the second attachment member 3.           However, it is
envisaged that the second compression members could be connected to the seond leg 2b of
the body and the second attachment member at any suitable location.
The two compression members 6a, 6b are positioned substantially adjacent to each other and
are substantially equidistant along their lengths.       The compression members are also
preferably of the same width, thickness, and radius of curvature so that the compression joint
6 created by the compression members allows the second attachment member 3 to be
positioned in a substantially parallel relationship with the second leg 2b of the body 2.
However, the flexible nature of the joint also allows for some movement between the body 2
and the second attachment member 3.
Preferably, the second attachment member 3 is substantially parallel to the second leg 2b of
the body and preferably, the first edge 3c of the second attachment member 3 is located in

                                                10
the same plane in which the first leg of the body lies, or in a plane proximate to that in which
the first leg of the body lies. The second attachment member 3 is preferably longer than the
second leg 2b of the body so that the second edge 3d of the second attachment member is
located beyond the distal end of the second leg 2b of the body.
Although the compression member(s) has/have been described as substantially arcuate in
the preferred form of the invention, it is envisaged that the compression member(s) may
alternatively take other forms.       For example, the compression member(s) may have
substantially flat surfaces or may be substantially corrugated.
An advantage is provided by using two compression members to form the compression joint
and therefore to form a seal between the flashing body 2 and the second attachment member
3. In particular, the use of two compression members, instead of one, provides an additional
or back up seal if needed. If the first compression member is damaged during installation (for
example, by being cut when plaster is applied over the flashing) or if the seal provided by the
first compression member fails over time, the second compression member acts to provide
the necessary seal and flexible joint between the flashing body and the second attachment
member to restrict moisture from entering the join behind the flashing.        Thus, the second
compression member provides a safety mechanism wherein the integrity of the seal provided
by the compression joint is not compromised even when the sealing ability of the first
compression member is destroyed.
Another advantage provided by this configuration of the compression joint 6 is that a chamber
or space 13 is created between the compression members or seals. The chamber has side
walls that are defined by the two compression members 6a, 6b, the rear surface of the
second leg 2b of the body 2, and the front surface 3a of the second attachment member 3.
When the flashing 1 is in use, the ends of the flashing are sealed so that the space 13
becomes a neutrally pressurised chamber; the air within the chamber being held under
substantially neutral pressure. That is, the air within the chamber is not in a vacuum or under
high pressure. If small openings, such as tears or holes, appear in the first and/or second
compression member 6a, 6b, the neutral pressure chamber becomes pressure equalised and
maintains a pressure that is equal to that of the surrounding ambient air. This pressure

                                                11
equalisation means that it becomes extremely difficult for water to enter into the equalised
chamber 13 and behind the cladding.
Each compression member or seal 6a, 6b is made of a flexible material, such as rubber or
silicone for example, to allow the body 2 and the second attachment member 3 to move
relative to each other without compromising the integrity of the joint 6. The advantageous
result is that when the flashing is attached to two joined substrates and one or both of those
substrates move(s) slightly with respect to the other substrate, the flexible compression joint
can flex to compensate for this movement without compromising the seal between the two
substrates. Thus, the compression joint provides a flexible and weatherproof seal between
the body 2 and the second attachment member 3.
Preferably, the compression joint 6 and hinge 5 are made of the same flexible material and
are co-extruded with the other components of the flashing, which are preferably made of
uPVC.     This process of manufacture reduces the risk of openings and, therefore, leakage,
between the components of the flashing.        However, it is envisaged that the parts of the
flashing may be made of other materials and the flashing may be manufactured in other ways
(such as by adhering or welding the separate parts together) without departing from the scope
of the invention.
As will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art, although the preferred form of the
invention shows two compression members being used in the flexible compression joint, it is
envisaged that a single compression member could, alternatively be used. In another form,
three or more compression members could be used in the compression joint.
We return now to further describe the second attachment member 3. As shown in Figure 2,
an attachment means in the form of an adhesive surface 7 is preferably provided on the
attachment face of the attachment member. Preferably, the adhesive surface 7 comprises a
removable covering. In one form, the adhesive surface is provided by affixing double-sided
adhesive tape to the attachment face 3b of the attachment member 3. The tape 7 is provided
with a removable covering to protect the adhesive nature of the tape until such time as the
flashing is to be used.    The self-adhesive tape provides for fast and easy attachment to

                                                  12
multiple, prepared adjoining substrates; for example, powder coated aluminium joinery.
 In an alternative embodiment, an adhesive product is applied to the attachment face of the
second attachment member immediately prior to installation of the flashing. The adhesive
product could be an adhesive tape, glue, a cement-type product, or any other suitable
product.    Alternatively, the second attachment member may be attached to the desired
substrate using the alternative attachment means, such as screws, rivets, or the like, that
is/are suitable for attaching the second attachment member of the flashing to a substrate.
 In the preferred form, but not essential to the invention, the distance between the flexible joint
5 and the second attachment member 3 is at least 12mm to form a 12mm gap between two
joined substrates to reduce the effect of capillary action, which causes water to be held in a
gap between substrates and to rise up along the gap.
Advantageously, the configuration of the flashing allows both the first and second attachment
members to attach to many different types of substrates, including coloursteel, zincalume,
powder coated aluminium, fibre cement sheet, glass, wood, uPVC and most other smooth,
prepared surfaces.
The configuration of the flashing also allows separate pieces of the flashing to be butt-jointed
together at the ends of each flashing, so it is not necessary for particular sizes of flashings to
be purchased to suit a particular job.       Instead, it is envisaged that the flashing could be
provided in cut lengths or on a roll.
 Preferably, the component parts of the flashing, being the body 2, flexible joint 5, pivotable
attachment member 4, compression joint 6, and second attachment member 3 are co
extruded so that each component is an integral part of the flashing.
The preferred method of installing the flashing at the join between two different substrates will
now be described. Although the installation of the flashing is described and illustrated herein
in relation to particular forms of joins and prepared substrates, it will be appreciated that the
flashing can be installed and used for any join between two similar or dissimilar substrates.

                                                 13
 For example, the flashing can be used between window joinery and a window sill or jamb and
between a door surround and a door jamb or doorsill, or even between a soffit and wall
cladding.
When attaching the flashing to the join between a first substrate, such as aluminium window
joinery and a second substrate, such as a window sill, as shown in Figure 5, the attachment
surface 3b of the second attachment member 3 is attached to or adhered to the bottom of the
window joinery along the length of the joinery. The first leg 2a of the body 2 of the flashing is
pushed up against, or is positioned proximate to, the substrate extending below the window
joinery. In the preferred form of the invention, this attachment is achieved by removing a
covering from adhesive tape provided on the attachment surface of the second attachment
member 3 and then pressing the attachment surface of the second attachment member 3
against the bottom of the window joinery. Alternatively, the second attachment member may
be attached to the substrate with another form of attachment means, such as adhesive,
screws, nails, rivets, or any other suitable means of attachment either alone or in
combination.
The pivotable attachment member 4 is then pivoted, about hinge 5, from its first position to a
second position where the attachment member 4 is substantially parallel with the sloped
window sill. The pivotable attachment member is then positioned to lie on top of and along
the window sill in this second position. Because the pivotable attachment member 4 is biased
to the first position, the surface of the pivotable attachment member 4 that is in contact with
the window sill presses down on the window sill.            This pressure helps the pivotable
attachment member 4 to remain substantially flush with the window sill.
Once the flashing is in position, plaster is applied over the body and pivotable attachment
member to attach the flashing to the window sill. Preferably, the first leg 2a of the body is at
least 6mm wide to allow for plenty of clearance when plastering to ensure that no plaster
contacts the adjacent substrate.       The apertures or recesses in the pivotable attachment
member 4 allow for the plaster to be easily keyed into the apertures or recesses to assist the
attachment of the flashing to the window sill.

                                                 14
Cladding 10 is then applied to the window sill.
A sealant 9 is then optionally applied over the exposed compression joint 6, second
attachment member 3, and a portion of the cladding 10 to help ensure that water cannot enter
the join between the cladding and the flashing. The sealant also provides an aesthetically
pleasing join between the window joinery and the finished plaster surface.
The flashing of the invention can also be used to seal the join between a wooden window sill
and the cladding beneath the sill, as shown in Figure 6.       When used in this manner, the
attachment surface 3b of the second attachment member 3 is attached to the prepared
exposed lower surface of the window sill and the first leg 2a of the body 2 of the flashing is
positioned to abut the exposed wall surface extending below the sill.             The pivotable
attachment member 4 is positioned to align with the first leg 2a in the first position. The
pivotable attachment member is attached to the wall surface using plaster, cement, screws, or
any other suitable attachment means. The pivotable attachment member 4 is then covered
with cladding 10 and, optionally, a sealant 9 is used to cover the exposed second attachment
member 3 and the compression joint 6.
The flashing of the invention can also be used to seal the join between a window frame and a
window jamb, as shown in Figure 7. When used in this manner, the attachment surface 3b of
the second attachment member 3 is attached to the prepared exposed side edge of the
window frame so that the second edge 3d of the attachment member 3 substantially aligns
with, or at least does not protrude substantially beyond, the periphery of the window frame. In
Figure 7, the window frame illustrated is an aluminium window frame.              The pivotable
attachment member 4 is then pivoted about the flexible joint 5 to adopt a second position in
which the attachment member 4 aligns with the window jamb.              Typically, the pivotable
attachment member will adopt a position that is substantially at 900 to the first leg 2a of the
body 2 of the flashing.
Preferably, the flashing is designed so that the distance between the pivotable attachment
member 4 and the second attachment member 3 is at least 12mm. This provides a minimum
gap of 12mm between the jamb and the joinery and, therefore, removes the risk of capillary

                                                 15
action that is typically found between such joins and which causes water or fluid to be held
within the join.
Once the flashing is in position, the pivotable attachment member 4 is attached to the surface
of the window jamb using plaster, cement, screws, or any other suitable attachment means.
The flashing is then covered with cladding 10 and, optionally, a sealant 9 is applied over the
compression seal 6 and second attachment member 3.
Although not specifically described or illustrated herein, it is also possible to use the flashing
to seal the join between a soffit and wall, a door and doorsill or door jamb, and to seal the join
between any other similar or dissimilar substrates that are joined together at any angle. The
flashing of the invention, therefore, eliminates the requirement for assorted flashings for
different substrates.
As can be seen from the above examples of the methods of installing the flashing, the
flexibility of the compression joint and the hinge means that if a sealant is used and the
sealant bead breaks down over time, the integrity of the substrates will not be compromised
because the compression joint and the firmly attached surfaces of the pivotable attachment
member and second attachment member provide an effective seal over the join.
In another form of the invention, not shown, the pivotable attachment member is itself flexible
and takes the form of a double-sided adhesive tape, or the like, that is directly attached to the
distal end of the base of the body of the flashing.         The adhesive tape has a removable
covering to protect the adhesive surfaces of the tape. Because the tape is flexible, it is able
to pivot from the distal end of the first leg of the body to adopt many different positions,
wherein at each different position, the pivotable attachment member extends at different
angles relative to the first leg of the body. This form of flashing would be installed in much the
same way as the first embodiment of the invention described above, with the pivotable
attachment member being adhered to the substrate to which it is to be attached by removing
the protective covering from the adhesive tape.

                                                16
 In yet another modified form of the invention, not shown, the body of the flashing is
substantially elongate and is formed from a rigid material, the body having a first end and a
second end. The first end is attached to a pivotable attachment member via a first flexible
joint. The second end of the body is attached to a second attachment member via a second
flexible joint so that both the pivotable attachment member and the second attachment
member can pivot relative to the body. A plurality of apertures may be provided along the
length of the pivotable attachment member to reduce its surface area. At least one surface of
the pivotable attachment member and/or the attachment surface of the second attachment
member may be an adhesive surface, preferably with a removable covering to protect the
adhesive qualities of the adhesive surface before installation, or may be attachable to a
substrate using other attachment means. Again, this form of flashing can be used to seal a
join between two substrates joined at any angle.
 In yet another form of the invention, not shown, the body of the flashing is formed of a flexible
material and may be of any suitable shape. One end of the body is joined to a pivotable
attachment member, which may be formed of rigid or flexible material. A plurality of apertures
or recesses may be provided along the length of the pivotable attachment member to reduce
its surface area. The other end of the body is joined to a second attachment member, which
may also be formed of rigid or flexible material. At least one surface of the pivotable
attachment member and/or the attachment surface of the second attachment member may be
an adhesive surface, preferably with a removable covering to protect the adhesive qualities of
the adhesive surface before installation, or may be attachable to a substrate using other
attachment means. Thus, the pivotable attachment member can pivot relative to the second
attachment member to seal the join of two substrates joined at any angle, and the flexible
nature of the joint allows for movement between the two joined substrates.
The above describes preferred embodiments of the invention only. Modifications that readily
appear to those skilled in the art can be made to the invention without departing from the
scope of the invention.

                                                   17
What we claim is:
 1.       A flashing comprising:
          a body;
          a pivotable attachment member having opposing first and second surfaces; and
          a second attachment member having a first surface and an opposing attachment
surface, each surface of the second attachment member having a first edge, an opposing
second edge, and a central area at or near the midpoint between the first and second edges;
          wherein the body has a first end and a second end, the pivotable attachment
member extending from the first end of the body and the second attachment member
extending from the second end of the body; and
          wherein the body is adapted to allow the pivotable attachment member to pivot
about the first end of the body.
2.        The flashing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the body is a substantially elongate rigid
member and wherein a first flexible joint joins the first end of the body to the pivotable
attachment member and a second flexible joint joins the second end of the body to the
second attachment member.
3.        The flashing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the body is an angular body comprising:
          a first leg having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end, the
distal end of the first leg forming the first end of the body; and
          a second leg having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end, the
second leg forming the second end of the body;
          wherein the first and second legs are joined together at an angle; and
          wherein the pivotable attachment member is a flexible member that is joined to the
distal end of the first leg and is adapted to pivot about the distal end of the first leg; and
          wherein the second leg is joined to the second attachment member via a flexible
joint.
4.        The flashing as claimed in claim 3, wherein the pivotable attachment member is
formed from a flexible tape.

                                                   18
5.        The flashing as claimed in claim 3 or 4, wherein an adhesive surface is provided on
at least one of the first and second surfaces of the pivotable attachment member.
6.        The flashing as claimed in claim 1, wherein the body is an angular body comprising:
          a first leg having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end, the
distal end of the first leg forming the first end of the body; and
          a second leg having a front surface, a rear surface, a first end and a distal end, the
second leg forming the second end of the body;
          wherein the first and second legs are joined together at an angle; and
          wherein the first leg is joined to the pivotable attachment member via a first flexible
joint and the second leg is joined to the second attachment member via a second flexible
joint.
7.        The flashing as claimed in claim 6, wherein the first and second legs are joined in a
substantially perpendicular arrangement to form a substantially L-shaped body.
8.        The flashing as claimed in claim 6 or 7, wherein the second flexible joint is a
compression joint.
9.        The flashing as claimed in claim 8, wherein the second leg of the body is
substantially parallel with the second attachment member and wherein the compression joint
is formed from at least one arcuate compression member that joins the second leg of the
body to a front surface of the second attachment member.
 10.      The flashing as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein the compression joint is formed
from a pair of arcuate compression members positioned substantially adjacent to each other
and substantially equidistant along their lengths, each compression member joining the
second leg of the body to a front surface of the second attachment member.
 11.    The flashing as claimed in claim 10, wherein a first arcuate compression member is
connected at one end to the second leg of the body at or near the distal end of the second leg

                                               19
and is connected at its other end to a central area of the front surface of the second
attachment member; and wherein a second arcuate compression member is connected at
one end to the second leg of the body at or near the first end of the second leg and is
connected at its other end to the second attachment member at or near a first edge of the
second attachment member to form a chamber having side walls defined by the compression
members, the second leg of the body of the flashing, and the second attachment member.
12.     The flashing as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein the distance between the first
flexible joint and the second attachment member is at least 12mm.
13.        The flashing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pivotable
attachment member comprises a plurality of apertures along its length.
14.        The flashing as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the pivotable
attachment member extends from the first end of the body at an attachment edge of the
pivotable attachment member and wherein the pivotable attachment member comprises a
plurality of recesses along its opposing free edge to form a substantially toothed or serrated
free edge.
15.        The flashing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the attachment
surface of the second attachment member comprises an adhesive surface.
16.        The flashing as claimed in claim 14, wherein the adhesive surface comprises
double-sided adhesive tape having one adhesive surface adhered to the second attachment
member and having a removable covering over its opposing adhesive surface.
17.        A flashing substantially as herein described with reference to any embodiment
shown in the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
