A BOILING WATER HEATER SYSTEM AND METHOD OF HEATING
WATER IN SAME
ABSTRACT
         A boiling water heater system (10) for providing hot water at a dispensing outlet (45).
The heater system (10) includes a first water heater (15), a second water heater (21). The first
water heater (15) is arranged in fluid communication with a water supply (18) for heating water
from the water supply (18) from an ambient temperature (T1) to a first elevated temperature
(T2). The second water heater (21) is arranged in fluid communication with the first water
heater (15) for heating the water from the first elevated temperature (T2) to a dispensing
temperature (T3), that is higher than the first elevated temperature (TI). The second water
heater (21) includes a storage tank (20) arranged in fluid communication with a dispensing
outlet (45).

                                                    1
A BOILING WATER HEATER SYSTEM AND METHOD OF HEATING
WATER IN SAME
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]       This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2012323820,
the disclosure of which is incorporated in this divisional application in its entirety by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]       The present invention relates to a boiling water heater system and to a method of
heating water in same. The invention has been primarily developed in relation to a boiling water
heater and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However, it will be
appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use and is also, for
example, suitable for use in combined water heater and water chiller units.
[0003]       Boiling water heaters are sometimes known as instant boiling water dispensers and,
despite the name, deliver water heated to at or just less than boiling temperature.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       A known 'instant boiling water' dispenser holds a pre-determined volume of water
in a storage tank at a temperature close to boiling point. The hot water can be dispensed
instantly from the tank at any time. The greater the capacity of the storage tank, the greater the
volume of hot water that can be dispensed in a very short period, for example during office tea
breaks when there is a sudden high demand for hot water.
[0005]       The performance of such a hot water dispensing system is evaluated partly on its
recovery rate, that is the length of time it takes the system to replenish the depleted hot water,
and partly on its energy efficiency. The recovery rate is dependent upon the tank size and on the
available power to the heating element immersed within the tank. Therefore, a heating element
with a high rated power is desirable in order to minimise the recovery time. The energy
efficiency of the system can be dependent on heat losses from the surface area of the tank and
on the quality of any tank insulation. As such, a disadvantage of a relatively larger tank is that

                                                     2
although it can accommodate a sudden high demand for hot water, it also has the potential for
greater heat losses and poor energy efficiency.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0006]        It is the object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least
ameliorate the above disadvantage.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]        There is disclosed herein a boiling water heater system for providing hot water at a
dispensing outlet, the heater system including:
          a first water heater arranged in fluid communication with a water supply for heating
water from the water supply to a first elevated temperature; and
          a second water heater arranged in fluid communication with the first water heater for
heating the water from the first elevated temperature to a dispensing temperature, that is higher
than the first elevated temperature, wherein:
          the second water heater includes a storage tank arranged in fluid communication with
the dispensing outlet.
[0008]        Accordingly, the water temperature at the inlet of the second water heater is raised
considerably in comparison to the known hot water dispensing system. This means that the flow
rate of the water into the second heater can be increased because the water requires less time in
the second heater in order to reach its dispensing temperature. This also means that the size of
the second water heater tank can be smaller than the tank of a similar single tank system whilst
retaining a good recovery rate. The tank surface area is accordingly reduced and the potential
for heat losses to the atmosphere is also reduced. Thus, the energy efficiency of the system may
be improved.
[0009]        In an embodiment, the first and second water heaters are powered independently of
one another.
[00010]       In an embodiment, the first water heater is an instantaneous water heater.
Preferably, the instantaneous water heater includes a fixed element power rating and has a fixed
volume.

                                                  3
[0010]      In an embodiment, the second water heater includes a boiling water storage tank.
Preferably, the boiling water storage tank includes a fixed rated immersed heating element
therein.
[0011]      Preferably, the boiling water storage tank includes a controller for managing the
water temperature inside the tank at just below boiling point, more preferably one to two
degrees below boiling point, or at any temperature the user may define.
[0012]      In an embodiment, the system further comprises a water conduit providing the fluid
communication between the water supply and the first water heater and the first water heater and
the second water heater. The system may further comprise a control valve arranged in the water
conduit upstream of the first water heater, the control valve being configured for controlling
admission of water from the water supply through the first water heater and into the second
water heater. The control valve may be configured to admit water from the water supply
through the first water heater and the second water heater in response to user actuation of a
dispenser at the dispensing outlet.
[0013]      The water supply is preferably at ambient temperature and is preferably a mains
water supply. In an embodiment, the water dispensing temperature is near boiling point.
[0014]      The system preferably includes a water softening device (if required) disposed in the
water conduit upstream of the first water heater. The system preferably includes a water filter
disposed in the water conduit upstream of the first water heater.
[0015]      There is further disclosed a method of heating water in a boiling water heater
system, the water heater system including: a first water heater; a second water heater; and a user
actuatable dispenser,
      the method including the steps of:
      heating water from a water supply to a first elevated temperature in the first water heater;
      providing the water at the first elevated temperature to the second water heater;
      heating the water to a second dispensing temperature, that is higher than the first elevated
      temperature;
      storing the heated water in the second water heater; and
      dispensing the heated water from the dispenser upon user actuation thereof.

                                                     4
[0016]        In an embodiment, the water at the water supply is supplied at an ambient
temperature.
[0017]        In an embodiment, the system further comprises a controller and the method
comprises controlling admission of water from the water supply through the first water heater
and into the second water heater in response to user actuation of the dispenser. Preferably, the
water is dispensed at a temperature near boiling point.
[0018]        There is still further disclosed herein a boiling water heater system for providing hot
water at a dispensing outlet, the heater system including:
       a first water heater arranged in fluid communication with a water supply for heating water
from the water supply to a first elevated temperature; and
       a second water heater arranged in fluid communication with the first water heater for
heating the water from the first elevated temperature to a dispensing temperature, that is higher
than the first elevated temperature, wherein:
       the first water heater is an instantaneous water heater configured to instantly heat water
that flows through it;
       the second water heater includes a storage tank arranged in fluid communication with the
dispensing outlet for storing the water heated to the dispensing temperature; and
       the first and second heaters are powered independently of one another.
[0019]        There is still further disclosed a method of heating water in a boiling water heater
system, the water heater system including: a first instantaneous water heater; a second water
heater; and a user actuatable dispenser, wherein the first instantaneous water heater is powered
independently of the second water heater, the method including the steps of: heating water from
a water supply to a first elevated temperature in the first instantaneous water heater as water
flows through the first instantaneous water heater; providing the water at the first elevated
temperature to the second water heater; heating the water to a second dispensing temperature,
that is higher than the first elevated temperature; storing the heated water in the second water
heater; and dispensing the heated water from the dispenser upon user actuation thereof.

                                                  5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]       A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of
an example only, with reference to the accompanying drawing wherein:
[0021]       Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a boiling water heater system.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0022]       Fig. 1 shows an embodiment of a boiling water heating heater system 10. The
boiling water heater system 10 has a first, instantaneous type, water heater 15. The first water
heater 15 is fluidly connected to a mains water supply 18 by a supply conduit 25. The first
water heater 15 consists of a fixed volume tank 17 of 0.12 litres with a fixed power rated
element 30 of 2.4 kW, inside the tank 17. The first water heater 15 is powered by a power
source, such as a first mains electrical supply 19.
[0023]       The system 10 also has a second water heater 21, in the form of a boiling water
storage tank 20 with an electric fixed rate immersed heating element 35 therein. The storage
tank 20 has a capacity of 3 litres. The tank 17 of the first water heater 15 is fluidly connected to
the storage tank 20 of the second water heater 21 via a link conduit 28. The boiling water
storage tank 20 has an upper end 23 and a lower end 24 and the immersed heating element 35 is
located at the lower end 24 so as to be immersed by water in the tank 20 during use. The boiling
water storage tank 20 is also provided with a thermal jacket (not shown) or other appropriate
means of insulation to insulate it against heat losses from its surface area. The second water
heater 21 includes an outer casing 37 around the tank 20 and is powered independently of the
first water heater 15 by a second power source, such as a second mains electrical supply 22.
[0024]       The boiling water storage tank 20 is fluidly connected to a dispensing outlet, in the
form of a user actuatable faucet 45. The dispensing outlet 45 is located on a bench for pumped
products or at the lower end 24 of the tank, for gravity feed products. A control valve in the
form of a solenoid valve 50 is disposed in the supply conduit 25. The control valve 50
communicates electronically with a logic controller 40 that is associated with the boiling water
storage tank 20. Both the controller 40 and the valve 50 are situated within the casing 37 and
the controller 40 is programmable to manage the temperature of water in the boiling water
storage tank 20 at close to boiling point, more specifically within 1 or 2 degrees of boiling point

                                                    6
such that the water is ready to be dispensed instantly on demand. The controller 40 is also
programmed to control the opening and closing of the valve 50 so that it can be at least partially
opened as required in order to admit water from the mains water supply 18 into the system 10 at
a specific flow rate when the water in the boiling water storage 20 tank needs replenishing.
[0025]        The system 10 optionally includes a filtration unit 55 disposed in the supply conduit
25 for filtering water from the mains water supply 18 prior to its admission into the system 10.
The system 10 also optionally includes a softener cartridge 60 disposed in the supply conduit 25
upstream of the instantaneous water heater 15.
[0026]        The operation of the system 10 is as follows. Water from the mains water supply 18
is supplied to the system 10 at an ambient temperature of around 17'C (T1). Upon start up of
the system 10, or in response to user actuation of the faucet 45, the controller 40 sends a signal
causing the control valve 50 to at least partially open, thereby allowing water to flow from the
mains water supply 18 into the supply conduit 25 at a specific flow rate of 0.8 litres per minute.
The water in the supply conduit 25 then passes through the filter 55 and/or softener cartridge 60
if these components are present in the system 10. The water then flows through the first water
heater 15 where it is instantly heated to an initial elevated temperature (T2) by the element 30.
In the present embodiment, in which the first water heater is a 2400 Watt heater and the water
flow rate is held at 0.8 litres per minute, the first water heater 15 raises the temperature of the
water passing through it by approximately 40'C. Thus the water exits the instantaneous water
heater 15 at an initial elevated temperature of around 57'C and is delivered, via the link conduit
28, to the boiling water storage tank 20 of the second water heater 21 at about this temperature.
[0027]        In an alternative embodiment, the mass flow rate of water through the first water
heater 15 is held at a constant flow of 1.0 litres per minute, resulting in a change in temperature
of the water passing through the instantaneous water heater of around 36'C. As such, the water
supplied to the instantaneous water heater at 17'C is delivered to the boiling water storage tank
20 at an initial elevated temperature (T2) of about 53'C.
[0028]        In either embodiment, the element 35 of the second water heater 21 is required to
heat the water only from the initial elevated temperature (T2) of 53'C or 57'C to the dispensing
temperature (T3) of 98'C or 99'C (at sea level), meaning that the recovery rate of the system 10
can advantageously be more than doubled relative to the similar known boiling water heating

                                                    7
systems. The water can be maintained at the relatively high flow rate of 0.8 litres per minute or
1.0 litre per minute as it flows into the boiling water storage tank 20 and still be heated to near
boiling point at a rate fast enough to cope with the sudden high user demand for boiling water at
the faucet 45, for example during a scheduled office tea break. Accordingly, the volume
capacity of the boiling water storage tank 20 can advantageously be reduced in comparison to
known systems, reducing the potential heat losses from the surface area of the boiling water
storage tank by up to 35 percent.
[0029]        Although the invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments,
it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many
other forms without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                                   8
CLAIMS:
1.        A boiling water heater system for providing hot water at a dispensing outlet, the heater
system including:
          a first water heater arranged in fluid communication with a water supply for heating
water from the water supply to a first elevated temperature; and
          a second water heater arranged in fluid communication with the first water heater for
heating the water from the first elevated temperature to a dispensing temperature, that is higher
than the first elevated temperature, wherein:
          the second water heater includes a storage tank arranged in fluid communication with
the dispensing outlet.
2.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second
water heaters are powered independently of one another.
3.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the first water
heater is an instantaneous water heater.
4.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the instantaneous water
heater includes a fixed element power rating and has a fixed volume.
5.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the second water heater includes a boiling water storage tank.
6.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the boiling water
storage tank includes a fixed rated immersed heating element therein.
7.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein the boiling water
storage tank includes a controller for managing the water temperature inside the tank at just
below boiling point.
8.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the controller manages
the water temperature inside the tank to one to two degrees below boiling point.

                                                  9
9.        The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the controller manages
the water temperature inside the tank to a temperature defined by a user.
10.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the system further comprises a water conduit providing the fluid communication between the
water supply and the first water heater and the first water heater and the second water heater.
11.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the system further
comprises a control valve arranged in the water conduit upstream of the first water heater, the
control valve being configured for controlling admission of water from the water supply through
the first water heater and into the second water heater.
12.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the control valve is
configured to admit water from the water supply through the first water heater and the second
water heater in response to user actuation of a dispenser at the dispensing outlet.
13.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the water supply is at ambient temperature.
14.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the water supply is a mains water supply.
15.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the water dispensing temperature is near boiling point.
16.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the system includes a water softening device disposed in the water conduit upstream of the first
water heater.
17.       The boiling water heater system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the system includes a water filter disposed in the water conduit upstream of the first water
heater.

                                                  10
18.      A method of heating water in a boiling water heater system, the water heater system
including: a first water heater; a second water heater; and a user actuatable dispenser,
         the method including the steps of:
         heating water from a water supply to a first elevated temperature in the first water
heater;
         providing the water at the first elevated temperature to the second water heater;
         heating the water to a second dispensing temperature, that is higher than the first
elevated temperature;
         storing the heated water in the second water heater; and
         dispensing the heated water from the dispenser upon user actuation thereof.
19.      The method of boiling water as claimed in claim 18, wherein the water at the water
supply is supplied at an ambient temperature.
20.      The method of boiling water as claimed in claim 18 or 19, wherein the system further
comprises a controller and the method comprises controlling admission of water from the water
supply through the first water heater and into the second water heater in response to user
actuation of the dispenser.
21.      The method of boiling water as claimed in claim 18, 19 or 20, wherein the water is
dispensed at a temperature near boiling point.
                                   Zip Industries (Aust.) Pty Ltd
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
                                               37             21        10
                    17
              15
                              30         28
                                                                   20
<removed-apn>
                                                                   23
                                   T2
                                                                   45
                                    T1
                                          40                 T3              1/1
                   19                                             24
                                          50
                         60
                                                              35
                                          55
                                                                   22
              18
                              25                    FIG. 1

