 Abstract
 A water atomisation device (10) for water evaporation and/or dust control. The device (10)
-includes: a generally longitudinally hollow housing (12); a fan (18); a motor (20); and a hollow
 manifold (22). The housing (12) extends between an inlet end (12a) and an outlet end (12b),
 with the inlet end (1 2a) defining a first air inlet to an interior of the housing (12). The fan (18) is
 within the housing (12), between the inlet end (12a) and the outlet end (12b). The motor (20)
 drives the fan (18). The manifold (22) is shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end
 (12b) and has a plurality of water injector nozzles (24) directed substantially inwardly and away
 from the outlet end (12b). A distal edge of the outlet end (12b) is longitudinally spaced apart
 from a proximal edge of the manifold (22) to define a second air entrainment inlet (25) to an
 interior of the manifold (22).

10          12  28  2        2       2
           30                            22
        32
    26
                                     22a
                               16
           12a4
 10              ."'*''', 25       FIG. 1
                             24
     22
    12
                                  16
     14
                             LFIG. 2

A WATER ATOMISATION DEVICE
Field of the Invention
[0001] The present invention relates to a water atomisation device adapted for water evaporation
and/or dust control.
[0002] The invention has been primarily developed for use in the draining of bodies of water on
mine and construction sites and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application.
The invention is also suitable for use in wetting a very large land surface area for dust control in
arid environments.
Background of the Invention
[0003] Devices are known which are able to atomise water and eject into the atmosphere as a
fine mist These devices are used in snow making and low volume misting for evaporative
cooling and/or localised dust control. The disadvantage of such known devices is they are not
suitable for large scale waste water evaporation and/or dust control applications.
Object of the Invention
[0004] It is the object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
the above disadvantage.
Summary of Invention
[0005] Accordingly, in a first aspect, the present invention provides a water atomisation device
for water evaporation and/or dust control, the device including:
        a generally longitudinal hollow housing extending between an inlet end and an outlet
end, the inlet end defining a first air inlet to an interior of the housing;
        a fan within the housing between the inlet end and the outlet end;
        a motor for driving the fan; and
        a hollow manifold shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end and having a
plurality of water injector nozzles directed substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end.

                                                   2
        wherein a distal edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal
edge of the manifold to define a second air entrainment inlet to an interior of the manifold.
[0006] The distal edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from the proximal edge of
the manifold by about 35 mm.
[0007] The housing is preferably generally cylindrical. The housing inlet end preferably
includes a venturi part, converging towards the outlet end. The housing outlet end preferably
includes a tapered part, converging away from the inlet end. The device preferably includes an
air flow straightener, within the housing, between the fan and the tapered part. The housing
preferably includes a cylindrical part between the venturi part and the air flow straightener. The
fan and the majority of the motor are preferably mounted within the cylindrical part.
[0008] The manifold is preferably annular, with a substantially round cross section.
[0009] The motor is preferably about 75 kilowatts. The motor and fan are preferably adapted to
eject air from the housing at about 45 metres/second. The water injectors are preferably adapted
to inject water at about 24 litres/second. The motor, fan and water injectors are preferably
adapted to discharge at least 2000 litres of air for every 1 litre of atomised water.
[0010] The nozzles each preferably have a water opening therein of about 3.2 mm in diameter.
[00 11] The housing is preferably about 1220 mm in diameter.
[0012] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a water atomisation device adapted
capable of discharging at least 2000 litres of air for every 1 litre of atomised water, the device
including:
         a generally longitudinally hollow housing about 1220 mm in diameter and extending
between an inlet end and an outlet end, the inlet end defining a first air inlet to an interior of the
housing;
         a fan within the housing between the inlet end and the outlet end;
         a motor of about 75 kilowatts for driving the fan to eject air from the housing at about
45metres/second; and

                                                    3
        a hollow manifold shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end and having a
plurality of water injector nozzles directed substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end
to inject water at about 24 litres/second,
        wherein a distal edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal
edge of the manifold by about 35 mm to create a second air entrainment inlet to an interior of
the manifold.
[0013] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method of operating a water
atomisation device for water evaporation and/or dust control, the device including: a generally
longitudinally hollow housing extending between an inlet end and an outlet end, the inlet end
defining a first air inlet to an interior the housing; a fan within the housing between the inlet end
and the outlet end; a motor for driving the fan; and a hollow manifold shaped to generally
correspond to that of the outlet end and having a plurality of water injector nozzles directed
substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end, a distal edge of the outlet end is
longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal edge of the manifold to define a second air
entrainment inlet to an interior of the manifold,
         the method including the steps of:
 1.     energising the motor to rotate the fan and draw air into the housing inlet end and eject it
        from the housing outlet end;
2.      pumping water through the injectors;
3.       atomising the water leaving the injectors by impacting it with the air ejected by the fan;
         and
4.       entraining additional air through the second air entrainment inlet into the air ejected by
         the fan.
Brief Description of the Drawings
 [0014] A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of an example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
 [00151 Fig. 1 is a side view of an embodiment of a water atomisation device;
 [0016] Fig. 2 is front view of the device shown in Fig. 1;
 [0017] Fig. 3 is a front perspective view of the device shown in Fig. 1; and

                                                   4
[0018] Fig. 4 is a cross sectional side view of the device shown in Fig. 1.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
[0019] Figs. 1 to 4 show an embodiment of a water atomisation device 10 used to drain bodies
of water on mine or construction sites and also to wet a large land surface area for dust control
in arid environments.
[0020] The device 10 includes a steel, generally longitudinal, cylindrical hollow housing 12.
The housing 12 has a diameter of about 1200 mm and is about 2400 mm long. The housing 12
extends between an inlet end 12a and an outlet end 12b. The inlet end 12a defines a first air
inlet to an interior of the housing 12.
 [0021] The housing 12 is mounted to a skid plate assembly 14 by a pair of brackets 16. The
brackets 16 allow the angle of the longitudinal axis x-x of the housing 12 to be adjusted in order
to adjust the trajectory of the material ejected from the device 10. The skid plate assembly 14
 allows the device 10 to be moved using a forklift, as is well understood by persons skilled in the
 art.
 [0022] As best shown in Fig. 4, the device 10 includes a fan 18 within the housing 12, between
 the inlet end 12a and the outlet end 12b. A 75 kilowatt electric motor 20 drives the fan 18.
 [0023] A hollow annular manifold 22 is mounted to the housing 12 near the outlet end 12b. The
 manifold 22 is sized and shaped to generally correspond to the size and shape of the outlet end
  12b and has a prurality of water injector nozzles 24 which are directed substantially inwardly
 and away from the outlet end 12b. The nozzles 24 have an internal diameter of about 3.2 mm.
 This allows relatively dirty water to be pumped through the nozzles without clogging.
  [0024] A distal edge of the outlet end 12b of the housing 12 is longitudinally spaced apart from
  a proximal edge of the manifold 22 in order to create an annular gap 25 therebetween of
  approximately 35 mm in the direction of the longitudinal axis x-x of the housing 12. The
  manifold 22 has an inlet fitting 22a suitable for connection to a water hose.
  [0025] As previously mentioned, the housing 12 is generally cylindrical. The housing inlet end
   12a includes a venturi part 26, which converges towards the outlet end 12b. The housing outlet

                                                    5
end 12b includes a tapered part 28, which converges away from the inlet in 12b. An air flow
straightener 30 is positioned within the housing 12, between the fan 18 and the tapered part 28.
The housing 12 also includes a cylindrical part 32 between the venturi part 26 and the air flow
straightener 30. The fan 18 and the majority of the motor 20 are mounted within the cylindrical
part 32.
[0026] The operation of the device 10 will now be described. To operate the device 10, the
motor 20 is energised to rotate the fan to cause air to be drawn into the inlet 12a and ejected
from the outlet 12b at about 45 m/sec. Simultaneously, an external pump (not shown) is
connected to the inlet fitting 22a and used to pump water through the nozzles 24 at about 24
litres/second. The water leaving the injectors 24 is atomised when it comes in the contact with
the high velocity air (45 m/sec) being ejected from the housing 12 as a plume of air and
atomised water. The motor 20 and the fan 18 discharge at least about 2000 litres of air for every
 1 litre of atomised water pumped through the water nozzles 24.
 [0027] As the air passes through the opening in the manifold 22, and past the nozzles 24, it
causes additional air to be entrained through the gap 25 between the housing 12 and the
manifold 22. The entraining of the additional air through the gap 25 induces a larger volume
airstream from the surrounding environment and thereby carries the plume of air and atomised
water higher into the atmosphere then would be case without such additional entrained air. This
increases the amount of time the atomised water droplets spend in the air and therefore increases
the evaporation rate thereof. This also enable the device 10 to be operated with the relatively
high water injection rates (about 24 litres/sec) whilst still maintaining a suitable water droplet
size. Accordingly, this enables the device 10 to be particularly suitable for relatively fast
draining and evaporation of relatively large bodies of water. The combination of the mechanical
 fracturing of the water particles, the high airstream velocity at the outlet end 12b of the housing
 12, the relatively large volume of air actually discharged and the entrained surrounding air
enables a significant performance increase in evaporation and also in the control of dust
 particles when the device is used for dust control.
 [0028] Although, the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment, it
 will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the invention can be embodied in many
 other forms. For example, acoustic shielding can be added to the housing to reduce the noise
 generated by the device.

                                                     6
CLAIMS
I.    A water atomisation device for water evaporation and/or dust control, the device including:
      a generally longitudinally hollow housing extending between an inlet end and an outlet
end, the inlet end defining a first air inlet to an interior of the housing;
      a fan within the housing between the inlet end and the outlet end;
      a motor for driving the fan; and
      a hollow manifold shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end and having a
plurality of water injector nozzles directed substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end.
      wherein a distal edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal edge
of the manifold to define a second air entrainment inlet to an interior of the manifold.
2.    The water atomisation device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the distal edge of the outlet
end is longitudinally spaced apart from the proximal edge of the manifold by about 35 mm.
3.    The water atomisation device as claimed in claim I or 2, wherein the housing is generally
cylindrical.
4.    The water atomisation device as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the housing inlet end
includes a venturi part, converging towards the outlet end.
5.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
housing outlet end includes a tapered part, converging away from the inlet end.
6.    The water atomisation device as claimed in claim 5, further including an air flow
straightener, within the housing, between the fan and the tapered part.
7.     The water atomisation device as claimed in claimed 6, wherein the housing includes a
cylindrical part between the venturi part and the air flow straightener.
8.     The water atomisation device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the fan and the majority of
the motor are mounted within the cylindrical part.
9.     The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
manifold is annular, with a substantially round cross section.

                                                   7
10.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
motor is about 75 kilowatts.
11.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
motor and fan are adapted to eject air from the housing at about 45metres/second.
12.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
water injectors are adapted to inject water at about 24 litres/second.
13.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
motor, fan and water injectors are adapted to discharge at least 2000 litres of air for every 1 litre
of atomised water.
14.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
nozzles each have a water opening therein of about 3.2mm in diameter.
15.    The water atomisation device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
housing is about 1220 mm in diameter.
16.    A water atomisation device adapted capable of discharging at least 2000 litres of air for
every 1 litre of atomised water, the device including:
       a generally longitudinally hollow housing about 1220 mm in diameter and extending
between an inlet end and an outlet end, the inlet end defining a first air inlet to an interior of the
housing;
         a fan within the housing between the inlet end and the outlet end;
         a motor of about 75 kilowatts for driving the fan to eject air from the housing at about
45metres/second; and
         a hollow manifold shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end and having a
plurality of water injector nozzles directed substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end
to inject water at about 24 litres/second,
       wherein a distal edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal edge
of the manifold by about 35 mm to create a second air entrainment inlet to an interior of the
manifold.

                                                   8
17.     A method of operating a water atomisation device for water evaporation and/or dust
control, the device including: a generally longitudinally hollow housing extending between an
inlet end and an outlet end, the inlet end defining a first air inlet to an interior the housing; a fan
within the housing between the inlet end and the outlet end; a motor for driving the fan; and a
hollow manifold shaped to generally correspond to that of the outlet end and having a plurality
of water injector nozzles directed substantially inwardly and away from the outlet end, a distal
edge of the outlet end is longitudinally spaced apart from a proximal edge of the manifold to
define a second air entrainment inlet to an interior of the manifold,
       the method including the steps of:
 I.    energising the motor to rotate the fan and draw air into the housing inlet end and eject it
       from the housing outlet end;
2.     pumping water through the injectors;
3.     atomising the water leaving the injectors by impacting it with the air ejected by the fan;
       and
4.     entraining additional air through the second air entrainment inlet into the air ejected by the
       fan.
 18.   The method of claim in claim 17 wherein the air is ejected from the housing at about 45
metres/second.
 19.   The method as claim in claim 17 or 18 wherein the water is pumped through the injectors
at about 24 litres/second.
20.    The method as claim in claim 17, 18 and 19 wherein at least 2000 litres of air are
discharged for every I litre of atomised water.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/2

