                                 ABSTRACT
A method and system for operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) discovery
is disclosed, which method may be executed as instructions on a machine,
where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable
medium. The method can include a transmission station in an operator
network receiving a request for data service from a requesting wireless
device. The transmission station can identify a serving wireless device to
provide the data service for the requesting wireless device. The transmission
station can transmit a device discovery message to the requesting wireless
device and the serving wireless device. The device discovery message
provides a device discovery period for communication via an ad-hoc, D2D
network between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless
device.   The    ad-hoc,   D2D     network  provides    for   device-to-device
communication.

   WO 2013/154546                                                      PCT/US2012/032987
             OPERATOR-ASSISTED DEVICE-TO-DEVICE (D2D) DISCOVERY
                                       BACKGROUND
            Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and
   protocols to transmit data between a transmission station and a wireless device
 5 (e.g., mobile device). Some wireless communication technologies use orthogonal
   frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) combined with a desired digital
   modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM
   include the third generation partnership project (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE),
   the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 standard (e.g.,
10 802.16e, 802.16m), which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX
   (Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access), and the IEEE 802.11 standard,
   which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.
            In 3GPP radio access network (RAN) LTE systems, the transmission
   station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
15 Network (E-UTRAN) Node Bs (also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs,
   enhanced Node Bs, eNodeBs, or eNBs) and Radio Network Controllers (RNCs),
   which communicates with the wireless mobile device, known as a user equipment
   (UE). In IEEE 802.16 WiMAX RANs, the transmission station can be referred to
   as a base station (BS). In IEEE 802.11 WiFi RANs, the transmission station can
20 be referred to as a WiFi wireless access point (WAP).
            Wireless mobile communication technology can also include device-to
   device (D2D) communication where two mobile devices can communicate directly
   with each other without a transmission station. The mobile devices may include a
   radio to communicate with the transmission station and a radio to communicate
25 directly with another mobile device. If the radios' bands are far enough apart, the
   mobile devices may be active simultaneously (i.e., the wireless device may
   communicate with the base station and another wireless device simultaneously).
    If the bands are not far enough apart to avoid significant interference, the radios
   may be active at different time intervals. Wireless devices with a single radio may
30 also communicate with the transmission station and the other mobile device at
   different time intervals.

   WO 2013/154546                                                      PCT/US2012/032987
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the
   detailed description which follows, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, which together illustrate, by way of example, features of the disclosure;
 5 and, wherein:
           FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a requesting wireless device, a serving
   wireless device, and a transmission station in accordance with an example;
           FIG. 2 illustrates an example process for operator-assisted device-to-device
   discovery using a data service advertisement in accordance with an example;
10         FIG. 3 illustrates an example process for operator-assisted device-to-device
   discovery using a request for data service in accordance with an example;
           FIG. 4 depicts a flow chart for operator-assisted device-to-device discovery
   at a transmission station in accordance with an example;
           FIG. 5 depicts a flow chart for operator-assisted device-to-device discovery
15 at a wireless device in accordance with an example;
           FIG. 6 illustrates a diagram of a transmission station, a requesting wireless
   device, a serving wireless device in accordance with an example.; and
           FIG. 7 illustrates a diagram of a mobile device in accordance with an
   example.
20         Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated, and
   specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be
   understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Before the present invention is disclosed and described, it is to be
25 understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures, process
   steps, or materials disclosed herein, but is extended to equivalents thereof as
   would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also
   be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of
   describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same
30 reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers
   provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps
   and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.
                                               -2-

   WO 2013/154546                                                      PCT/US2012/032987
           DEFINITIONS
           As used herein, the term "mobile device," "wireless device," or "wireless
   mobile device," refers to a computing device capable of wireless digital
   communication such as a smart phone, a tablet computing device, a laptop
 5 computer, a multimedia device such as an iPod Touch®, or other type computing
   device that provides text or voice communication.
           EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
           An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then
   specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial
10 summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly
   but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology
   nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
           Device-to-device (D2D) communication can be used after wireless devices
   (e.g., mobile devices) first "discover" each other. A D2D discovery process can be
15 highly resource consuming on the ad-hoc, D2D networks, including licensed and
   unlicensed networks. A licensed network includes use of part of a radio spectrum
   sold to, licensed to, or used by operators of a private or government radio
   transmission system. The D2D discovery process can include the mobile devices
   randomly sending requests for potential peers in hopes that other mobile devices
20 are listening during that same period. The periodic polling of a D2D discovery
   process in attempts to find other devices that are listening can accelerate the
   drain of the battery of the mobile device and cause significant interference on the
   radio band.
           A multi-radio mobile device contains multiple radio access technologies
25 (e.g. LTE and WiFi). An operator network using transmission stations can include
   a wide area network (WAN), such as licensed band cellular network using a LTE
   or IEEE 802.16 standard, or a local area network (LAN) such as unlicensed band
   IEEE 802.11 (i.e., WiFi). An ad-hoc, D2D network may reside on the same band
   as the operator network or the ad-hoc, D2D network can include an out-of-band
30 (OOB) network (e.g., an unlicensed or licensed band different from the operator
   network bands). The chances of two single-radio wireless devices listening (i.e.
   receiving) and transmitting at the same time may be low depending on the
   wireless devices' sleep/idle patterns, traffic loads, and other factors. The chances
                                               -3-

   WO 2013/154546                                                        PCT/US2012/032987
   of two time-division duplex (TDD) (i.e., time shared) multi-radio wireless devices
   listening and transmitting at the same time may be even lower since the radios
   (e.g. LTE and WiFi) of the wireless devices alternate active time. Thus, the D2D
   discovery process may be even longer on a TDD multi-radio device than on a
 5 single radio device, and resources consumed (including bandwidth and power)
   may increase.
           The D2D discovery can be more efficient and consume less power by using
   the operator network to assist the ad-hoc, D2D network in the D2D discovery
   process. Using operator-network-assisted D2D discovery can improve
10 performance for multi-radio devices, running (e.g., transmitting) simultaneously or
   in TDD mode. The operator-network-assisted D2D discovery used herein can be
   referred to as operator-assisted D2D discovery.
           FIG. 1 illustrates wireless devices (e.g., mobile devices 220 and 230)
   configured to communicate 214 and 212 with a transmission station 210 via the
15 operator network, where the wireless devices are also configured to communicate
   222 with each other via the ad-hoc, D2D network. The device discovery process
   can include a device discovery message transmitted using the operator network,
   where the device discovery message instructs at least a pair of the wireless
   devices of the device discovery period allowing the two wireless devices to
20 discover each other and communicate with each other via the ad-hoc, D2D
   network. The device discovery process assisted by the operator network can
   improve the speed and power efficiency of the D2D device discovery.
           The following provides additional details of the examples. FIG. 2 illustrates
   an example process for operator-assisted device-to-device discovery. At least two
25 wireless devices can be in communication with an operator network. A requesting
   wireless device can be a wireless device (e.g., mobile device) requesting a data
   service and/or a specific subscriber (or subscribers) at a specified interval of time.
   The data service as used herein can include data content and/or services.
   Content can include a multimedia stream, a video stream, an audio stream, a
30 graphics file, an audio file, a text file, an executable file, a multimedia file, or
   another type of data file. Services can include gaming, social networking, and
   other interactive services. A serving wireless device can be a wireless device
   configured to provide data services for the requesting wireless device at the
                                                -4-

   WO 2013/154546                                                     PCT/US2012/032987
   specified interval of time. A wireless device can request a data service during one
   interval of time (e.g., be the requesting wireless device), and provide the data
   service at another interval of time (e.g., be the serving wireless device). The
   requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device can have prior
 5 authentication from the operator network 300a-b.
           When a user of the requesting wireless device desires data services and/or
   specific subscribers, the requesting wireless device can send a request for data
   services and/or the specific subscriber(s) 302 to a serving transmission station.
   The request for data services can include the request for data services and/or a
10 request for the specific subscriber. A unicast message can be used to send the
   request for data services. A unicast message is a message sent by one wireless
   device to one wireless device. The request can include an identification of the
   data service requested. The request can also include client specific information
   such as power, loading, location, and other similar information about the
15 requesting wireless device.
           Upon receipt of the request for data services, the operator network can
   determine whether the data service can be provided via D2D connectivity 304 or
   whether the data service is only available via the transmission station. If the
   operator network determines that the data service may be delivered via D2D
20 connectivity, the operator network may check several pieces of information. If the
   operator network has access to a data repository (e.g., a database or a cloud
   application) of available subscriber services, the operator network may check the
   data repository to determine whether the requested subscriber(s) or, if specific
   subscribers were not requested, whether subscribers in the service area have
25 indicated possession of the relevant data service as well as a willingness (e.g.,
   permissions) to share the relevant data with peers (e.g., a requesting wireless
   device). The operator network may identify one or more potential serving wireless
   devices (e.g., server device) to provide the data service 306.
           If the operator network has access to specific location information of the
30 subscribers in the operator network, a processor in the operator network may
   check the location of the requesting wireless device against potential serving
   wireless devices in the service area. The service area may be a cell for a
   transmission station or node. The service area may include a macro cell
                                              -5-

   WO 2013/154546                                                      PCT/US2012/032987
   associated with a macro evolved Node B (macro-eNB), a cell associated with a
   low power node (LPN), a micro cell associated with a micro-eNB, a pico cell
   associated with a pico-eNB, a femto cell associated with a femto-eNB, a home cell
   associated with a home eNB (HeNB), or a WiFi access point (WAP).
 5         Depending on the information available to the operator network, the
   operator network may narrow down the pool of potential peers to the subscribers
   that were requested, have the requested data service, are willing to share the
   requested data service, and/or are in the vicinity or proximity of the requesting
   wireless device. If the operator network can narrow the pool of potential peers to
10 a list of potential serving wireless devices, the transmission station can send a
   multi-cast device discovery message to the potential serving wireless devices.
   Otherwise, the transmission station can send a broadcast device discovery
   message 308b to the pool of potential peers in the service area. The multi-cast
   message and broadcast message can be a message from one wireless device to
15 multiple wireless devices. In another example, the transmission station can send
   unicast device discovery messages to the potential serving wireless devices. The
   transmission station can also send the device discovery message 308a to the
   requesting wireless device. The device discovery message can include a
   proposed device discovery period 310 for the D2D, ad-hoc network. In another
20 example, the device discovery message can include the data service being
   requested and/or the location of the requesting wireless device.
           Upon receipt of the device discovery message, the potential serving
   wireless devices may check their current conditions (e.g., power, traffic load, and
   other conditions) to determine whether the wireless devices can engage in D2D
25 data service sharing. If the device discovery message includes the requested
   data service, the potential serving wireless devices may also check whether the
   wireless devices have the requested data service available and permission to
   share the requested data service.
            If location information is included in the device discovery message, the
30 potential serving wireless devices may also check their location to determine if at
   least one potential serving wireless device is in the vicinity of the requesting
   wireless device. In an example, a wireless device can have a location
   mechanism, such as a global positioning system (GPS) receiver, to determine a
                                               -6-

   WO 2013/154546                                                     PCT/US2012/032987
   current location of the wireless device. Other location mechanism can also be
   used.
           If a potential serving wireless device has the requested data service, the
   wireless device is willing to share the requested data service, and/or the wireless
 5 device is in the vicinity or proximity of the requesting wireless device; the potential
   serving wireless device may broadcast a data service advertisement 312 on a
   D2D link to the requesting wireless device during the device discovery period 310.
   During the proposed device discovery period, the requesting wireless device may
   listen on the D2D link for the data service advertisement from the potential serving
10 wireless device. The advertisement may include information about the data
   service available from the potential serving wireless device. After successfully
   receiving the data service advertisement, the requesting wireless device may
   transmit an acknowledgement 316 on the D2D link indicating the requesting
   wireless device's willingness to "pair" with the potential serving wireless device. If
15 the data service advertisement and the acknowledgement (ACK) are successfully
   received, the D2D communication 320 can then be setup between the requesting
   wireless device and the serving wireless device using the D2D link.
           In another embodiment, the transmission station may send a first device
   discovery message including a first device discovery period to just the requesting
20 wireless device and a potential serving wireless device in a first pair of wireless
   devices. The transmission station may send a second device discovery message
   including a second device discovery period to a second requesting wireless
   device and a second potential serving wireless device in a second pair of wireless
   devices, where second device discovery period occurs at a different time interval
25 from the first device discovery period, and so forth.
           FIG. 3 illustrates another example process for operator-assisted device-to
   device discovery. The requesting wireless device may broadcast a request
   advertisement 314 on D2D link to the potential serving wireless devices during the
   device discovery period 310. During the proposed device discovery period, the
30 potential serving wireless devices in the service area may listen on the D2D link
   for the request advertisement. After successfully receiving the request
   advertisement and if the potential serving wireless device has permission and
   resources (which can include sufficiently good channel quality to the requesting
                                               -7-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   wireless device to support the desired quality of service [QoS]) to provide the
   requested data service, the potential serving wireless device may transmit an
   acknowledgement 318 indicating the potential serving wireless device's
   willingness to "pair" with the requesting wireless device. Ifthe request
 5 advertisement and the acknowledgement are successfully received, the D2D
   communication 320 can then be setup between the requesting wireless device
   and the serving wireless device using the D2D link.
           In another example, the requesting wireless device may broadcast a
   request advertisement and the potential serving wireless devices in the service
10 area may broadcast data service advertisements during the device discovery
   period. During the proposed device discovery period, the requesting wireless
   device may listen for the data service advertisements and the potential serving
   wireless devices in the service area may listen for the request advertisement.
   Contention based mechanisms may be used to resolve situations where the data
15 service advertisements are transmitted at a substantially same time as the request
   advertisement. The wireless devices may transmit acknowledgements indicating
   a willingness to "pair". If one request advertisement and one acknowledgement
   are successfully received or one data service advertisement and one
   acknowledgement are successfully received, the D2D communication can then be
20 setup between the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device
   using the D2D link.
           The requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device may stop
   listening or transmitting advertisements after the device discovery period has
   ended to conserve power. In an example, the device discovery period can be ten
25 milliseconds (i.e., 10 msec) to five seconds (i.e., 5 sec). The device discovery
   period may be long enough for the serving wireless device to transition from a
   sleep mode or idle mode to an active or connected mode, so the serving wireless
   device can receive the request advertisement or transmit the data service
   advertisement in the discovery period. In another example, the time duration
30 between the transmission of the device discovery message and the start of the
   device discovery period may be long enough for the serving wireless device to
   transition from a sleep mode or idle mode to an active or connected mode and still
   receive the request advertisement or transmit the data service advertisement in
                                             -8-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   the discovery period. In an embodiment, when the requesting wireless device and
   the serving wireless device successfully pair (e.g., communicate via the D2D link)
   within the device discovery period, the requesting wireless device or the serving
   wireless device may send a message to the transmission station indicating the
 5 successful pairing. In another embodiment, when the requesting wireless device
   and the serving wireless device fail to pair (e.g., do not communicate via the D2D
   link) within the device discovery period, the requesting wireless device or the
   serving wireless device may send a message to the transmission station
   indicating a failed D2D connection. The transmission station may send another
10 device discovery message including a later device discovery period to the
   requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device, which failed to
   successfully communicate and pair up via the D2D link. In another example, the
   transmission station may send another device discovery message including a later
   device discovery period to the requesting wireless device and the potential serving
15 wireless devices in the service area. In another example, the transmission station
   may send a "no serving wireless device available" message to the requesting
   wireless device indicating that no potential serving wireless device is available.
   The "no serving device available" message may occur if no potential serving
   wireless device is within D2D transmission range, or if no serving wireless device
20 has permission to share the data service with the requesting wireless device. The
   transmission station may continue to provide the data content or service via the
   operator network connection when no serving wireless device is available via the
   D2D link.
           FIGS. 2 and 3 illustrate the operator network used to propose a relatively
25 short common device discovery period to speed up the process and improve "peer
   pairing" success rates. "Over the air signaling" including the transmission and
   reception of the request for data services and/or subscriber(s) message and the
   device discovery message may be included in the protocol or standard used by
   the operator network. In reducing the device discovery to a narrow device
30 discovery period using the operator network connection, instead of listening
   and/or transmitting in a longer discovery time duration on the D2D, ad-hoc
   network alone; the power and resources of the wireless devices can be conserved
   and the bandwidth consumption of the D2D link can be reduced due to fewer
                                             -9-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   transmissions during the device discovery process. Per bit transmitted, the
   operator network connection can be more efficient than an ad-hoc, D2D
   connection. For example, in some applications, WiFi can consume 10 to 100
   times more power than using a WAN protocol per bit transmitted. So using a WiFi
 5 D2D link without assistance from an operator's WAN for device discovery may
   accelerate the drain of the battery of the wireless device.
          Using the device discovery message via the operator network (e.g.,
   operator-assisted D2D discovery) can provide additional benefits over using
   protocols such as WiFi Direct or Bluetooth. In WiFi Direct or Bluetooth, at least
10 one of the users of the wireless devices owns the D2D connection between the
   requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device, where security
   authentication is performed by one of the wireless devices. Establishing security
   and physically or manually setting up the wireless devices so the devices can find
   each other can be cumbersome. Security authentication attempts to address the
15 trustworthiness of a user and protect users from each other. In WiFi Direct, the
   users of the wireless devices may be known to each other and security keys and
   other identifying information can be exchanged when users are in the vicinity of
   each other. Setting up a D2D connection using WiFi Direct or Bluetooth can be
   cumbersome and may use a human being as the authenticator in a manual
20 process.
           In operator-assisted D2D discovery, the wireless device may already be
   authenticated via the operator network connection, so no additional authentication
   may be needed. In addition, operator-assisted D2D discovery can provide
   automatic authentication without manual human action.
25        The operator network can provide the benefits of determining the vicinity or
   proximity of the requested data services and/or subscriber(s) relative to a
   requesting wireless device, without using a random search process on the ad-hoc,
   D2D network to find the requested data services and/or subscriber(s). The
   operator network can store information in a data repository about the data
30 services available from specific subscribers. The operator network can also store
   information in a data repository about which subscribers have permission to
   access specific data services from specific subscribers. The operator network can
   also store information in a data repository about the location of subscribers. The
                                             -10-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   operator network can use the device discovery message to wake up the serving
   wireless device from an idle mode. Allowing the serving wireless device to remain
   idle until the requesting wireless device is ready can reduce the battery drain on
   the serving wireless device. The operator network can pair the wireless device
 5 requesting the data service with the wireless device that can provide the
   requested data service. The operator network can schedule a common device
   discovery period for the serving wireless device and the requesting wireless
   device to communicate on the D2D link. The device discovery message may
   include an indication of a channel or a sub-channel for device discovery on the
10 D2D link, when multiple channels or sub-channels are used for device discovery.
   Although, the operator network may not control the serving wireless device and
   the requesting wireless device, the operator network can propose or suggest a
   device discovery period for the pair of wireless devices to communicate on the
   D2D link.
15         In another example, the device discovery message can provide information
   about the requested data services and/or subscriber(s) in a reduced message or
   coded message to reduce the size of the message transmitted. The reduced
   message or coded message may be mapped to an identifier of the data services
   and/or subscriber(s) in the transmission station, the requesting wireless device,
20 and/or the serving wireless device. The request for data service and/or
   subscriber(s) message, the device discovery message, the advertisement, and/or
   the acknowledgement can include a control message with control signaling. For
   example, a first time a data service identifier is used the message may include a
   full identifier. In subsequent messages, a control message (with a reduced size
25 relative to the full identifier) may be used. The operator network may setup rules
   about the data services and/or locations tracked by the operator network in the
   data repository (e.g., the database or cloud application). The data services and/or
   locations may track with the serving wireless device and be updated in the
   subscriber's home and/or local agent. As a user moves, the data service provided
30 by and/or location of the serving wireless device may be updated by home and/or
   local agents at a different transmission station. The data service may be available
   to other subscribers (e.g., the requesting wireless device) in the vicinity without
                                              -11-

   WO 2013/154546                                                     PCT/US2012/032987
   the different base station querying the serving wireless device when the serving
   wireless device moves within the different base station's transmission range.
           Another example provides a method 500 for operator-assisted device-to
   device discovery, as shown in the flow chart in FIG. 4. The method may be
 5 executed as instructions on a machine, where the instructions are included on at
   least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of
   receiving a request for data service at a transmission station in an operator
   network from a requesting wireless device, as in block 510. The operation of
   identifying a serving wireless device at the operator network to provide the
10 requested data service for the requesting wireless device follows, as in block 520.
   The next operation of the method can be transmitting a device discovery message
   by the transmission station to the requesting wireless device and the serving
   wireless device, wherein the device discovery message provides a device
   discovery period for communication via an ad-hoc, D2D network between the
15 requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device, wherein the ad-hoc,
   D2D network provides for device-to-device communication, as in block 530.
           In an example, the ad-hoc, D2D network provides for non-authenticated
   user communication unless authentication is manually entered by users. The
   request for data service can further include an identification of the data service or
20 data content requested requested, a subscriber requested, desired quality of
   service (QoS) of the data service, a location of the requesting wireless device, a
   transmission power level of the requesting wireless device, a traffic loading of the
   requesting wireless device, an allowable transmission rate of the requesting
   wireless device, and combinations of this requested information. In an example,
25 the device discovery period can be less than five seconds. The ad-hoc, D2D
   network can include a licensed band network, a unlicensed band network, a
   wireless wide area network (WWAN), a wireless local area network (WLAN), a
   wireless personal area network (WPAN), and combinations of these networks.
   The request for data service can be configured to be received via a unicast
30 message, and the device discovery message can be configured to be transmitted
   via a broadcast, multicast, or unicast message. The device discovery message
   can recommend the serving wireless device to advertise during the device
   discovery period, and the device discovery message can recommend the
                                            -12-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   requesting wireless device to listen for an advertisement during the device
   discovery period. In another example, the device discovery message can
   recommend the requesting wireless device to request the data service during the
   device discovery period, and the device discovery message can recommend the
 5 serving wireless device to listen for the request during the device discovery
   period. In another example, the device discovery message can recommend the
   requesting wireless device to request the data service during the device discovery
   period and to listen when requesting wireless device is not transmitting, and the
   device discovery message can recommend the serving wireless device to
10 advertise during the device discovery period and to listen when the serving
   wireless device is not transmitting.
           The method can further include the transmission station authenticating the
   requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device via the operator
   network's authentication protocol before transmitting the device discovery
15 message. The operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can
   further include searching a data repository to determine if the requested
   subscriber, or if none were requested, any subscribers have the data service
   requested by the requesting wireless device. If the data repository contains data
   service access permissions, the operation of identifying potential serving wireless
20 devices can further include checking that the requested subscriber with the data
   service has permission to provide the data service to the requesting wireless
   device. If the data repository contains subscriber location information, the
   operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include
   checking that the location of the requested subscriber with the requested data
25 service and, if the location of the requested subscriber exists, permission to share
   the data service with the requesting wireless device) are in proximity of the
   requesting wireless device. If location information does not exist in the data
   repository, the operator network may check the real-time locations of the
   (requested) subscribers with the requested data service (and sharing permission)
30 to determine whether they are in proximity of the requesting wireless device. The
   operation of identifying potential serving wireless devices can further include
   selecting at least one potential serving wireless device from the list of subscribers
   in proximity of the requesting wireless device that have the requested data service
                                             -13-

   WO 2013/154546                                                   PCT/US2012/032987
   and permission to provide the data service to the requesting wireless device. If no
   subscribers which have the requested data service (or permission to share the
   requested data service with the requesting wireless device) are in proximity of the
   requesting wireless device, the operator network may inform the requesting
 5 wireless device that no potential serving wireless devices exist. The operation of
   transmitting the device discovery message can further include transmitting the
   device discovery message via a multicast message or unicast message to the
   requesting wireless device and at least one potential serving wireless device. The
   requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can include a user
10 equipment (UE) or a mobile station (MS). The requesting wireless device and
   serving wireless device can be configured to connect to any combination of a
   wireless local area network (WLAN), a wireless personal area network (WPAN),
   and a wireless wide area network (WWAN). The first wireless device can include
   an antenna, a touch sensitive display screen, a speaker, a microphone, a graphics
15 processor, an application processor, internal memory, a non-volatile memory port,
   or combinations these components. The transmission station can include an
   evolved Node B (eNodeB), a base station (BS), a macro evolved Node B (macro
   eNB), a low power node (LPN), a micro-eNB, a pico-eNB, a femto-eNB, a home
   eNB (HeNB), a base band unit (BBU), a remote radio head (RRH), a remote radio
20 equipment (RRE), a remote radio unit (RRU), or a wireless access point (WAP).
          Another example provides a method 600 for operator-assisted device-to
   device discovery, as shown in the flow chart in FIG. 5. The method may be
   executed as instructions on a machine, where the instructions are included on at
   least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of
25 receiving a device discovery message at a wireless device from a transmission
   station in an operator network, wherein the device discovery message provides a
   device discovery period for communication via an ad-hoc, D2D network between a
   requesting wireless device and a serving wireless device, wherein the ad-hoc,
   D2D network provides device-to-device communication, as in block 610. The
30 operation of communicating with a neighboring wireless device during the device
   discovery period via the ad-hoc, D2D network follows, as in block 620.
           In an example, the ad-hoc, D2D network does not provide user
   authentication for the communication. The wireless device can be configured as
                                            -14-

   WO 2013/154546                                                      PCT/US2012/032987
   the requesting wireless device and the neighboring wireless device can be
   configured the serving wireless device. The method can further include the
   requesting wireless device sending a request for data service to the transmission
   station. The operation of communicating with the neighboring wireless device can
 5 further include requesting the data service from the serving wireless device via the
   ad-hoc, D2D network during the device discovery period.
           In another example, the wireless device can be configured as the serving
   wireless device and the neighboring wireless device can be configured as the
   requesting wireless device. The method can further include the serving wireless
10 device waking up from an idle state or a sleep state to an active state when the
   device discovery message is received. The operation of communicating with the
   neighboring wireless device can further include advertising the data service to the
   requesting wireless device via the ad-hoc, D2D network during the device
   discovery period.
15         The request for data service can further include an identification of the data
   service and/or subscriber(s) requested, desired quality of service (QoS) of the
   data service, a location of the requesting wireless device, a transmission power
   level of the requesting wireless device, a traffic loading of the requesting wireless
   device, an allowable transmission rate of the requesting wireless device, and
20 combinations of this requested information. In an example, the device discovery
   period can be less than five seconds. The ad-hoc, D2D network can include a
   licensed band network, a unlicensed band network, a wireless wide area network
   (WWAN), a wireless local area network (WLAN), a wireless personal area network
   (WPAN), and combinations of these networks. The request for data service can
25 be configured to be transmitted via a unicast message, and the device discovery
   message can be configured to be received via broadcast, multicast, or unicast
   messages.
           The requesting wireless device can be configured to send the request for
   data service to the transmission station and the serving wireless device can be
30 configured to receive the device discovery message from the transmission station
   via a wide area network (WAN) authentication protocol. The requesting wireless
   device and serving wireless device can include a user equipment (UE) or a mobile
   station (MS). The requesting wireless device and serving wireless device can be
                                            -15-

   WO 2013/154546                                                   PCT/US2012/032987
   configured to connect to any combination of a wireless local area network
   (WLAN), a wireless personal area network (WPAN), and a wireless wide area
   network (WWAN). The first wireless device can include an antenna, a touch
   sensitive display screen, a speaker, a microphone, a graphics processor, an
 5 application processor, internal memory, a non-volatile memory port, or
   combinations these components. The transmission station can include an evolved
   Node B (eNodeB), a base station (BS), a macro evolved Node B (macro-eNB), a
   low power node (LPN), a micro-eNB, a pico-eNB, a femto-eNB, a home eNB
   (HeNB), a base band unit (BBU), a remote radio head (RRH), a remote radio
10 equipment (RRE), a remote radio unit (RRU), or a wireless access point (WAP).
           In another example, a transmission station can be in wireless
   communication with the wireless device (e.g., the requesting wireless device
   and/or the serving wireless device). The transmission station can be included
   within a centralized, cooperative, or cloud radio access network (C-RAN). In the
15 C-RAN, the transmission station (or eNodeB) functionality can be subdivided
   between a base band unit (BBU) processing pool and a remote radio unit (RRU)
   or a remote radio head (RRH) with optical fiber connecting the BBU to the RRU.
          FIG. 6 illustrates an example transmission station 210, requesting wireless
   device 220, and serving wireless device 230. The transmission station can
20 include an operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) discovery device 710, and
   each wireless device can include an operator-assisted D2D discovery device 720
   and 730. The operator-assisted D2D discovery device configured for the
   transmission station can include a transceiver module 712 and an identification
   module 714. The transceiver module can be configured to receive a request for
25 data service and/or subscriber(s) in an operator network from the requesting
   wireless device. The identification module can be configured to identify a serving
   wireless device to provide the data service for the requesting wireless device.
   The transceiver module can be further configured to transmit a device discovery
   message to the requesting wireless device and the serving wireless device. The
30 device discovery message can provide a device discovery period for
   communication via an ad-hoc, D2D network between the requesting wireless
   device and the serving wireless device. The ad-hoc, D2D network provides for
   device-to-device communication.
                                            -16-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
            In an example, the identification module 714 includes a data repository 716
   configured to store the data services available for sharing, the sharing
   permissions, and/or the locations of subscribers of the operator network. The
   identification module can be configured to select at least one serving wireless
 5 device 230 from the listed subscribers. The identification module can be
   configured to return a "no potential serving wireless device available" message
   when no subscribers in proximity of the requesting wireless device has the
   requested data service and/or permission to share the data service with the
   requesting wireless device. In another example, the identification module can be
10 coupled to the data repository. The data repository can include a database, a
   cloud application, or combination of the database and cloud application. In an
   example, the ad-hoc, D2D network can provide for non-authenticated user
   communication.
            In another example, the operator-assisted D2D discovery device 710
15 configured for the transmission station 210 can further include an authentication
   module 718. The authentication module can be configured to authenticate the
   requesting wireless device 220 and the serving wireless device 230 via an
   operator network authentication protocol.
           The operator-assisted D2D discovery device 720 and 730 configured for
20 the wireless devices 720 and 730 can include an operator network transceiver
   module 722 and 732 and a D2D transceiver module 724 and 734. The operator
   network transceiver module can be configured to receive a device discovery
   message from a transmission station in an operator network. The device
   discovery message can provide a device discovery period for communication via
25 an ad-hoc, D2D network between a requesting wireless device and a serving
   wireless device. The ad-hoc, D2D network can provide device-to-device
   communication. The D2D transceiver module can be configured to communicate
   with a neighboring wireless device during the device discovery period via the ad
   hoc, D2D network.
30          In an example, the ad-hoc, D2D network does not provide user
   authentication for the communication. The operator network transceiver module
   722 and 732 can be further configured to send a request for data services and/or
   subscribers to a transmission station 210. The D2D transceiver module 724 and
                                              -17-

   WO 2013/154546                                                        PCT/US2012/032987
   734 can be further configured to request the data service from a neighboring
   wireless device via the ad-hoc, D2D network. The D2D transceiver module can
   be further configured to advertise the data service to a neighboring wireless
   device via the ad-hoc, D2D network. The wireless device 220 and 230 can further
 5 include a wake up module (not shown) configured to wake up a wireless device
   from an idle state or a sleep state to an active state when the device discovery
   message is received. The data service can be configured to transfer data content
   including a multimedia stream, a video stream, an audio stream, a graphics file,
   an audio file, a text file, an executable file, a multimedia file, and combinations of
10 this data content. The data service can be configured to transfer instructions
   and/or information for services, such as gaming or social networking. The
   operator network transceiver module can use a wireless WAN (WWAN) protocol
   212 and 214 selected from the group consisting of a third generation partnership
   project (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE) standard and an Institute of Electrical
15 and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 standard. In another example, the
   operator network transceiver module can use a wireless LAN (WLAN) protocol
   212 and 214 selected from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
   (IEEE) 802.11 standard. The D2D transceiver module can use a D2D protocol
   222 including a 3GPP LTE standard, an IEEE 802.16 standard, an IEEE 802.11
20 standard, an IEEE 802.15 standard, a Bluetooth standard, a Wireless Display Port
   standard, a WiGig standard, an Ultra-WideBand (UWB) standard, a Wireless HD
   standard, a Wireless Home Digital Interface (WHDI) standard, a ZigBee standard,
   a proprietary unlicensed standard, a proprietary licensed standard, or
   combinations of these protocols.
25        FIG. 7 provides an example illustration of the wireless device, such as a
   user equipment (UE), a mobile station (MS), a mobile wireless device, a mobile
   communication device, a tablet, a handset, or other type of mobile wireless
   device. The mobile device can include one or more antennas configured to
   communicate with the transmission station, such as a base station (BS), an
30 evolved Node B (eNB), a base band unit (BBU), a remote radio head (RRH), a
   remote radio equipment (RRE), a relay station (RS), a radio equipment (RE),
   other types of wireless wide area network (WWAN) access points, or a wireless
   local area network (WLAN) access point (WAP). The mobile device can be
                                               -18-

   WO 2013/154546                                                    PCT/US2012/032987
   configured to communicate using at least one wireless communication standard
   including 3GPP LTE, WiMAX, High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), Bluetooth, and
   WiFi. The mobile device can communicate using separate antennas for each
   wireless communication standard or shared antennas for multiple wireless
 5 communication standards. The mobile device can communicate in a wireless
   local area network (WLAN), a wireless personal area network (WPAN), and/or a
   WWAN.
           FIG. 7 also provides an illustration of a microphone and one or more
   speakers that can be used for audio input and output from the mobile device. The
10 display screen may be a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen, or other type of
   display screen such as an organic light emitting diode (OLED) display. The
   display screen can be configured as a touch screen. The touch screen may use
   capacitive, resistive, or another type of touch screen technology. An application
   processor and a graphics processor can be coupled to internal memory to provide
15 processing and display capabilities. A non-volatile memory port can also be used
   to provide data input/output options to a user. The non-volatile memory port may
   also be used to expand the memory capabilities of the mobile device. A keyboard
   may be integrated with the mobile device or wirelessly connected to the mobile
   device to provide additional user input. A virtual keyboard may also be provided
20 using the touch screen.
           Various techniques, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the
   form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as
   floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, non-transitory computer readable
   storage medium, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when
25 the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer,
   the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the
   case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing
   device may include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor
   (including volatile and non-volatile memory and/or storage elements), at least one
30 input device, and at least one output device. The volatile and non-volatile memory
   and/or storage elements may be a RAM, EPROM, flash drive, optical drive,
   magnetic hard drive, or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station
   and mobile station may also include a transceiver module, a counter module, a
                                              -19-

   WO 2013/154546                                                     PCT/US2012/032987
   processing module, and/or a clock module or timer module. One or more
   programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein
   may use an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, and the
   like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object
 5 oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system.
   However, the program(s) may be implemented in assembly or machine language,
   if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language,
   and combined with hardware implementations.
           It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this
10 specification have been labeled as modules, in order to more particularly
   emphasize their implementation independence. For example, a module may be
   implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays,
   off-the-shelf semiconductors such as logic chips, transistors, or other discrete
   components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware
15 devices such as field programmable gate arrays, programmable array logic,
   programmable logic devices or the like.
           Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various
   types of processors. An identified module of executable code may, for instance,
   comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions, which
20 may, for instance, be organized as an object, procedure, or function.
   Nevertheless, the executables of an identified module need not be physically
   located together, but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different
   locations which, when joined logically together, comprise the module and achieve
   the stated purpose for the module.
25         Indeed, a module of executable code may be a single instruction, or many
   instructions, and may even be distributed over several different code segments,
   among different programs, and across several memory devices. Similarly,
   operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules, and may
   be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data
30 structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set, or may be
   distributed over different locations including over different storage devices, and
   may exist, at least partially, merely as electronic signals on a system or network.
                                             -20-

   WO 2013/154546                                                     PCT/US2012/032987
   The modules may be passive or active, including agents operable to perform
   desired functions.
           Reference throughout this specification to "an example" means that a
   particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
 5 example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus,
   appearances of the phrases "in an example" in various places throughout this
   specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
          As used herein, a plurality of items, structural elements, compositional
   elements, and/or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience.
10 However, these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is
   individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus, no individual
   member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other
   member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group
   without indications to the contrary. In addition, various embodiments and example
15 of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the
   various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments, examples,
   and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another,
   but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the
   present invention.
20         Furthermore, the described features, structures, or characteristics may be
   combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following
   description, numerous specific details are provided, such as examples of layouts,
   distances, network examples, etc., to provide a thorough understanding of
   embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize,
25 however, that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific
   details, or with other methods, components, layouts, etc. In other instances, well
   known structures, materials, or operations are not shown or described in detail to
   avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.
           While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present
30 invention in one or more particular applications, it will be apparent to those of
   ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form, usage and details of
   implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty, and without
                                             -21-

WO 2013/154546                                                   PCT/US2012/032987
departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly, it is not
intended that the invention be limited, except as by the claims set forth below.
                                         -22-

CLAIMS
1. An apparatus of a first user equipment (UE) operable to perform wireless wide area network
   (WWAN) operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) communications with a second UE, the
   apparatus comprising:
       one or more processors configured to:
           process, at the first UE, D2D discovery and wireless local area network (WLAN)
       configuration information received from a WWAN when the first UE and the second UE
       are within a WLAN direct communications range; and
           initiate, at the first UE, operator-assisted WLAN direct communications with the
       second UE within the WLAN direct communications range using the D2D discovery and
       WLAN configuration information received from the WWAN; and
           memory configured to store the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration
       information.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver configured to receive the D2D
   discovery and WLAN configuration information from the WWAN.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information
   enables security on a D2D-assisted WLAN direct communications link between the first UE
   and the second UE.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first UE includes an antenna, a touch sensitive display
   screen, a speaker, a microphone, a graphics processor, an application processor, an internal
   memory, a non-volatile memory port, or combinations thereof.
5. An apparatus of an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN) operable
   to assist a first user equipment (UE) and a second UE in operator-assisted device-to-device
   (D2D) communications, the apparatus comprising:
       one or more processors configured to:
           identify, at the E-UTRAN, D2D discovery and wireless local area network (WLAN)
       configuration information; and
           process, at the E-UTRAN, the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information
       for transmission to the first UE to enable the first UE to perform operator-assisted D2D
       communications with the second UE; and
                                                   23

P42675AU.D2
        memory configured to store the discovery and WLAN configuration information.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a transceiver configured to transmit the D2D
    discovery and WLAN configuration information to the first UE.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
    determine when the first UE and the second UE are within a WLAN direct communications
    range.
8.  The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to
    determine whether a D2D-assisted WLAN direct communications link between the first UE
    and the second UE provides a desired quality of service (QoS) to support an end user
    application.
9. At least one machine readable storage medium having instructions embodied thereon for
    performing operator-assisted device-to-device (D2D) communications between a first user
    equipment (UE) and a second UE, the instructions when executed by one or more processors
    cause the first UE to perform the following:
        processing D2D discovery and wireless local area network (WLAN) configuration
    information received from an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN);
    and
        initiating, at the first UE, operator-assisted WLAN direct communications with the
    second UE using the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information received from the
    E-UTRAN, and when the first UE and the second UE are within a WLAN direct
    communications range.
10. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the D2D discovery
    and WLAN configuration information enables security on a D2D-assisted WLAN direct
    communications link between the first UE and the second UE.
11. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 9, further comprising instructions
    which when executed by the one or more processors cause the first UE to perform the
    following: storing the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information in a memory of
    the first UE.
                                                    24

P42675AU.D2
12. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the operator-assisted
    WLAN direct communications include a device discovery message.
13. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the operator-assisted
    WLAN direct communications occurs on an unlicensed band.
14. At least one machine readable storage medium having instructions embodied thereon for
    assisting a first user equipment (UE) and a second UE in operator-assisted device-to-device
    (D2D) communications, the instructions when executed by one or more processors cause an
    evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN) to perform the following:
        generating, at the E-UTRAN, D2D discovery and wireless local area network (WLAN)
    configuration information; and
        processing, at the E-UTRAN, the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information
    for transmission from the E-UTRAN to the first UE to enable the first UE to perform
    operator-assisted D2D communications with the second UE.
15. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising
    instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the E-UTRAN to
    perform the following: storing the D2D discovery and WLAN configuration information in a
    memory at the E-UTRAN.
16. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising
    instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the E-UTRAN to
    perform the following: determining when the first UE and the second UE are within a
    WLAN direct communications range.
17. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising
    instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the E-UTRAN to
    perform the following: determining when the first UE and the second UE are within a
    WLAN direct communications range in response to receiving a request from an application
    executing on the first UE.
                                                 25

P42675AU.D2
18. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising
    instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the E-UTRAN to
    perform the following: determining whether a D2D-assisted WLAN direct communications
    link between the first UE and the second UE provides a desired quality of service (QoS) to
    support an end user application.
19. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the operator-assisted
    WLAN direct communications include a device discovery message.
20. The at least one machine readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the operator-assisted
    WLAN direct communications occurs on an unlicensed band.
                                               26

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
