                                                Abstract
The present invention provides a vehicle-mounted antenna which includes a base and an antenna
main body, the antenna main body includes an antenna shell, and a first antenna and a second
antenna, which are connected with each other in the antenna shell, and the first antenna is a metal
rod provided with a helical coil; a passage for enabling a feeder line to pass through is arranged in
the base, and the feeder line is electrically connected with the second antenna; and the base is
provided with an adjusting spring, and the designed adjustment spring can withstand the ultimate
jolt of the vehicle in a variety of environments and can bend when meeting height limiting barriers
so as to pass through without damaging the antenna or a height limiting device. The large-size metal
rod and the coil ensure a high electrical performance.

          . 20
             210
  2
             21
             22
    24        23
   15          12
               10
3            1
       FIG 1

                                 VEHICLE-MOUNTED ANTENNA
Field of the Invention
[0001] The present invention relates to a vehicle-mounted antenna.
Background of the Invention
[0002] A vehicle-mounted antenna is a tool that is installed on the roof of a vehicle for receiving a
variety of electrical signals. The majority of the existing vehicle-mounted antennas are rod-shaped,
have large heights and fixed shapes, in a high-speed driving process, especially on roads with
frequent turbulence such as off-road, breakage and noise are easy to occur, which seriously affects
the use effect. Some antennas improve this disadvantage by bending, although the heights of the
antennas are decreased, the electrical performance (including bandwidth and gain) of the antennas
are poor, and even the antennas cannot be used.
Summary of the Invention
[0003] In order to solve the above problem, the present invention provides a vehicle-mounted
antenna, which has excellent electrical performance, has a shockproof effect and can automatically
bend and rebound when meeting barriers.
[0004] The technical solution of the present invention is as follows: a vehicle-mounted antenna
includes a base and an antenna main body, the antenna main body includes an antenna shell, and a
first antenna and a second antenna, which are connected with each other in the antenna shell, and
the first antenna is a metal rod provided with a helical coil; a passage for enabling a feeder line to
pass through is arranged in the base, and the feeder line is electrically connected with the second

antenna; and the base is provided with an adjusting spring, and bending adjustment and shockproof
adjustment are performed by using the adjusting spring.
[0005] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, the antenna main body is detachably
connected with the base.
[0006] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a thread interface is formed in the
bottom of the antenna shell, the base is provided with a thread groove, and the antenna main body is
detachably connected with the base by means of the cooperation of the thread interface and the
thread groove.
[0007] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, the thread interface is detachably
connected with the antenna shell.
[0008] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a screw hole is formed in the groove
wall of the thread groove, and a bolt is screwed in the screw hole from the outside to prop against
the antenna main body.
[0009] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a female socket is arranged at the end
part of the feeder line, a male plug is arranged at the bottom of the second antenna, and the feeder
line is electrically connected with the second antenna by inserting the male plug into the female
socket.
[0010] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, the female socket is arranged in the
thread groove, and the male plug is arranged in the thread interface.
[0011] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, the base includes a pedestal and an
antenna connector, the adjusting spring is connected with the pedestal and the antenna connector,

and the thread groove is formed in the antenna connector.
[0012] In one or more embodiments of the present invention, the diameter of the first antenna is
greater than that of the second antenna.
[0013] Compared with the prior art, the technical solution of the present invention brings the
following beneficial effects:
[0014] 1. The designed adjustment spring can withstand the ultimate jolt of the vehicle in a variety
of environments (such as off-road) and can bend in the case of meeting height limiting barriers so as
to pass through without damaging the antenna or a height limiting device.
[0015] 2. The large-size metal rod and the coil ensure the electrical performance (bandwidth, gain
and the like), and meanwhile reduce the height of the antenna.
[0016] 3. The antenna main body and the base are fixed by threaded connection, the bolt is arranged
to further reinforce the connection stability of the antenna main body, the second antenna and the
feeder line are fixed by insertion fit, screw joint is matched with insertion to ensure high structural
strength of the product so as to withstand the ultimate jolt of the vehicle in a variety of
environments (such as off-road).
[0017] 4. The thread interface of the antenna main body is detachably connected, and when the
thread interface is subjected to screw looseness after long-time use, the thread interface is merely
changed singly without changing the whole antenna main body.
[0018] Brief Description of the Drawings
[0019] Fig. 1 is a structural section view of the present invention.

[0020] Fig.2 is a structural exploded view of the present invention.
[0021] Fig.3 is a structural schematic diagram of the present invention.
[0022] Detailed Description of the Embodiments
[0023] The solution of the present application is further described below in combination with the
drawings:
[0024] Referring to Fig.1 to Fig.3, a vehicle-mounted antenna includes a base 1 and an antenna
main body 2, the antenna main body 2 includes an antenna shell 20, and a first antenna 21 and a
second antenna 22, which are connected with each other in the antenna shell 20, and the first
antenna 21 is a metal rod provided with a helical coil 210, and the diameter of the first antenna 21 is
greater than that of the second antenna 22. A passage for enabling a feeder line 3 to pass through is
arranged in the base 1, and the feeder line 3 is electrically connected with the second antenna 22;
and the base 1 is provided with an adjusting spring 10, and bending adjustment and shockproof
adjustment are performed by using the adjusting spring 10.
[0025] Further, the antenna main body 2 is detachably connected with the base 1. Specifically, the
base 1 includes a pedestal 11 and an antenna connector 12, the adjusting spring 10 is connected with
the pedestal 11 and the antenna connector 12, a thread interface 23 is formed in the bottom of the
antenna shell 20, the antenna connector 12 is provided with a thread groove 13, and the antenna
main body 2 is detachably connected with the base 1 by means of the cooperation of the thread
interface 23 and the thread groove 13. A screw hole 14 is formed in the groove wall of the thread
groove 13, and a bolt 4, preferably, a hexagon socket head cap screw, is screwed in the screw hole
14 from the outside to prop against the antenna main body 2. The thread interface 23 is detachably
connected with the antenna shell 20, and specifically, the connection is a threaded connection.
[0026] Further, a female socket 15 is arranged at the end part of the feeder line 3, a male plug 24 is

arranged at the bottom of the second antenna 22, and the feeder line 3 is electrically connected with
the second antenna 22 by inserting the male plug 24 into the female socket 15. Furthermore, the
female socket 15 is arranged in the thread groove 13, and the male plug 24 is arranged in the thread
interface 23.
[0027] The above preferred embodiments should be regarded as an example of the implementation
of the present application. Any technical deductions, substitutions, improvements and the like which
are the same as, similar to or are deduced on this basis should be considered as the protection scope
of the present patent.

                                                Claims
1. A vehicle-mounted antenna, comprising a base and an antenna main body, wherein the antenna
main body includes an antenna shell, and a first antenna and a second antenna, which are connected
with each other in the antenna shell, and the first antenna is a metal rod provided with a helical coil;
a passage for enabling a feeder line to pass through is arranged in the base, and the feeder line is
electrically connected with the second antenna; and the base is provided with an adjusting spring,
and bending adjustment and shockproof adjustment are performed by using the adjusting spring.
2.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 1, wherein the antenna main body is detachably
connected with the base.
3.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 2, wherein a thread interface is formed in the bottom of
the antenna shell, the base is provided with a thread groove, and the antenna main body is
detachably connected with the base by means of the cooperation of the thread interface and the
thread groove.
4.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 3, wherein the thread interface is detachably connected
with the antenna shell.
5. The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 3, wherein a screw hole is formed in the groove wall of
the thread groove, and a bolt is screwed in the screw hole from the outside to prop against the
antenna main body.
6.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 3, 4 or 5, wherein a female socket is arranged at the end
part of the feeder line, a male plug is arranged at the bottom of the second antenna, and the feeder
line is electrically connected with the second antenna by inserting the male plug into the female
socket.

7.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 6, wherein the female socket is arranged in the thread
groove, and the male plug is arranged in the thread interface.
8.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 7, wherein the base comprises a pedestal and an antenna
connector, the adjusting spring is connected with the pedestal and the antenna connector, and the
thread groove is formed in the antenna connector.
9.   The vehicle-mounted antenna of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the first antenna is greater
than that of the second antenna.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 1                              1/3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 2                              2/3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 3                              3/3

