   ABSTRACT
           The invention relates to a connector for connecting a first and second timber
   structural members together. The connector is for mounting to a face of the first
   structural member and for receiving at least a portion of the second structural
 5 member. The connector comprises a lip portion and an at least one projection. In
   use the at least one projection is forced into tacking engagement with the first
   structural member so as to cause the connector to be tacked in place. The tacking
   engagement is effected when the lip is placed into an underlapping association with
   a bottom surface of the first structural member the connector undergoes at least
10 one of a) a pivoting of the connector about the lip at the underlapping association
   of the lip with the bottom surface and b) a movement of the connector towards the
   first structural member and parallel with its bottom surface. The tacking
   engagement holds the connector in its placed orientation relative to the first
   structural member.
                                              35

     3/12
                   14
           Fi r 13
21
  Figure 3

                                 A STRUCTURAL CONNECTOR
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to a structural connector for connecting a
 5 first structural member to a second structural member.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
             In the construction of structures such as buildings it is necessary to
   connect various different structural members to each other in order to provide the
10 greater overall structure.     In applications such as floors and decking within a
   building there are commonly a number of structural elements commonly referred to
   as joists which run between other structural elements such as bearers or beams.
   Once fastened together the joists and bearers form the structure for the floor or
   deck.
15           The connections between the structural members will to some extent
   determine the structural capacity of the overall structure being constructed.
   Additionally, as there may commonly be a large number of structural members
   needing to be connected to each other, such work may be time and labour
   intensive.
20           One common manner of connecting structural members, such as the joists
   and bearers in a floor or deck, is by directly fastening each to the other using nails
   or other fasteners such as screws. Passing a fastener through both structural
   members, which may commonly be aligned at right-angles to each other, may
   result in unsatisfactory penetration of either structural member. Additionally, as
25 the fasteners are commonly at angles to the surfaces of each structural member,
   the action of fastening may be awkward to perform and may cause splitting of
   either member where wooden members are used.
             Failures to sufficiently anchor fasteners in each structural member, or any
   splitting of the member during fastening, may result in an unsatisfactorily weak
30 connection, and even compromise the overall strength of the structure.
             It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved connector
   for connecting a structural members to each other, or at least to provide the public
   with a useful choice.
             In this specification where reference has been made to patent
35 specifications, other external documents, or other sources of information, this is
   generally for the purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the
   invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such external
                                                 1

   documents is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such
   sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the
   common general knowledge in the art.
 5 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             In one aspect, the present invention may broadly be said to be a method of
   using a connector for connecting a first structural member and second structural
   member, the connector comprising
             a mounting face for mounting to a mounting surface of the first structural
10 member,
             a receiving channel for receiving at least a portion of the second structural
   member,
             a lip portion and,
             at least one projection,
15           wherein both the lip portion and at least one projection extend past the
   mounting face of the connector,
             the method comprising the steps of
             (a)    aligning the connector at a desired position along an elongate
   direction of the first structural member,
20           (b)    moving the connector towards an alignment surface of the first
   structural member so as to cause the lip portion to be in an at least partially
   underlapping association with the alignment surface,
             (c)    moving the connector towards a desired orientation relative to the
   first structural member by either pivoting the connector about the lip at the
25 underlapping association of the lip with the alignment surface and/or moving the
   connector towards the first structural member and parallel with its alignment
   surface, the pivoting and/or movement acting to direct the mounting face towards
   abutment with the mounting surface of the first structural member and to tackingly
   engage the at least one projection with the first structural member such that the
30 connector may be held in its desired orientation,
             (d)    fastening the tackingly engaged connector at the mounting face to
   the mounting surface of the first structural member using one or more fasteners,
             (e)    locating a second structural member within the receiving channel of
   the connector, and
35           (f)    fastening the second structural member to either the connector or
   the first structural member using one or more fasteners.
                                                2

             Preferably the steps (a) to (f) are performed sequentially in the order of
   (a)-(f).
             Preferably the lip of the connector extends past the mounting face further
   than the at least one projection extends past the mounting face.
 5           Preferably the at least one projection of the connector is spaced apart from
   the lip portion.
             Preferably the at least one projection of the connector and lip are spaced
   apart so as to be substantially at opposed ends of the connector, the spacing of the
   projections and lip allowing for a levering of the projections into the first structural
10 member about the underlapping association of the lip and the alignment surface of
   the first structural member.
             Preferably the first and second structural members are substantially
   rectangular members, and the alignment surface of the first structural member is
   adjacent to and substantially perpendicular to the mounting surface of the first
15 structural member.
             Preferably at least the first structural member comprises a crushable
   material such as to be penetrated by the at least one projection of the connector
   under forcing by hand or hammer.
             Preferably at least the first structural member is a timber member.
20           Preferably an end portion of the second structural member is received
   within the receiving portion of the connector.
             Preferably an offset is provided between a base of the receiving channel
   and the lip, the offset being equal to a desired offset between the alignment surface
   of the first structural member and a corresponding surface of the second structural
25 member which, when placed in the receiving channel, rests on the base of the
   receiving channel.
             Preferably the offset is zero, such that when the first and second structural
   members are connected by the connector the at least a directly adjacent portion of
   the alignment surface of the first structural member and the corresponding surface
30 of the second structural member which rests on/is adjacent to the base of the
   receiving channel are substantially aligned.
             Preferably the pivoting and/or movement of the connector in step c) to
   tackingly engage the projections with the first structural member further comprises
   the step of pressing or hammering the projections into said tacking engagement
35 with the first structural member.
             In another aspect, the present invention may broadly be said to be a
   connector for connecting a first and second timber structural members together,
                                                 3

   the connector being for mounting to a mounting face of the first structural member
   and for receiving at least a portion of the second structural member,
             wherein the connector comprises a lip portion and an at least one
   projection such that in use when the lip is placed into an underlapping association
 5 with an alignment surface of the first structural member at least one of
             a)    a pivoting of the connector about the lip at the underlapping
   association of the lip with the alignment surface and
             b)    a movement of the connector towards the first structural member
   and parallel with its alignment surface
10           forces the at least one projection into tacking engagement with the first
   structural member so as to cause the connector to be tacked in place, holding the
   connector in its placed orientation relative to the first structural member.
             Preferably the connector comprises a base plate and two side plates
   upwardly extending from the base plate to define a receiving channel to receive an
15 end portion of the second structural member, and at least one mounting flange
   extending from a respective one of said base plate and one of said two side plates,
   said mounting flange to abut a surface of the first structural member and be
   secured thereto by at least one penetrative fastener.
             Preferably at least one mounting flange presents the at least one projection
20 projecting from the mounting flange.
             Preferably the tacking engagement is associated with the penetration of
   the first structural member by the at least one projection such that the mounting
   flange abuts a surface of the first structural member.
             Preferably the tacking engagement of the connector with the first structural
25 member is assisted by pressing by hand or hammer.
             Preferably the lip portion and at least one projection are provided at or
   towards two respective ends of the connector.
             Preferably the connector is a joist hangar, the first structural member is a
   beam and the second structural member is a joist.
30           Preferably the receiving channel comprises at least an alignment zone
   characterized by a zone of increasing length from a mouth of the channel to a base
   of the channel, wherein the length of the channel is perpendicular to the direction
   between the mouth and base of the channel, and in use during the receiving of a
   second structural member within the alignment zone of the amount of the second
35 structural member along an elongate direction received by the channel
   progressively increases.
                                                4

             Preferably, in use, the tacking engagement of the connector to the first
   structural member is such that the connector may support its own weight on the
   mounting face of the first structural member.
             In another aspect, the present invention may broadly be said to be a
 5 connector for connecting a first structural member to a second structural member,
   the structural connector comprising:
             a base plate and two side plates upwardly extending from the base plate to
   define a receptacle to receive an end portion of the second structural member, and
             at least one mounting flange extending from a respective one of said base
10 plate and one of said two side plates, said mounting flange to abut a surface of the
   first structural member and be secured thereto by at least one penetrative fastener
             wherein at least one mounting flange presents at least one projection
   projecting from the mounting flange to contact the surface of the first structural
   member and capable of penetrating the first structural member by pressing by
15 hand or hammer to tack the connector to the first structural member, prior to said
   connector being secured to said first structural member by said at least one
   penetrative fastener.
             Preferably the second structural member is a joist.
             Preferably at least one of the side plates and the base plate can be secured
20 to said joist by penetrative fasteners.
             Preferably the penetrative fasteners are nails or threaded fasteners such as
   screws that can be received in holes of said at least one of said side plates and
   base plate.
             Preferably the base plate and side plates are integrally formed.
25           Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
   formed.
             Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
   formed from a sheet metal.
             Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
30 formed by bending of a single piece of sheet metal.
             Preferably the projection is integrally formed with said base plate and side
   plates and mounting flange(s).
             Preferable the base plate, side plates, mounting flange(s) and the at least
   one projection are integrally formed by bending of a single piece of sheet metal.
35           Preferably the projection is provided at at least one and preferably both of
   said mounting flanges.
                                                5

            Preferably the projection is provided at a region of at least one said
   mounting flange, distal most the base plate.
            Preferably each said mounting flange provides a respective said projection.
            Preferably the projection has a sharpened tip that is presented to make
 5 first contact with said first structural member, whereafter upon pushing the
   projection into the first structural member, the mounting flange at a region
   adjacent said projection can come into contact with said first structural member.
            Preferably the projection has a sharpened tip that is presented to make
   first contact with said first structural member, whereafter upon pushing the
10 projection into the second structural member, the mounting flange at a region
   adjacent said projection can advance towards said first structural member.
            Preferably the projection is presented to make first contact with said first
   structural member without any modification by a user.
            Preferably the projection has a plurality of sharpened tips.
15          Preferably the base comprises a lip portion able in use to underlap a lower
   face of the first structural member, so as to provide an alignment of the connector
   with the first structural member.
            Preferably the lip portion extends substantially co-planar with the base of
   the connector, such that the lower surfaces of the first and second structural
20 members may be provided also substantially co-planar when the lip is underlapped
   with the lower face of the first structural member and the second structural
   member is located in the receptacle and on the base of the connector.
            Preferably the mounting flanges each comprise a mounting face for
   mounting to the first structural member, and the lip portion of the base extends
25 past the mounting faces of the mounting flanges.
            Preferably the lip portion is frangibly or removably connected to the base of
   the connector.
            Preferably the frangible or removable connection between the lip and the
   base comprises one or more weakened or cut-out regions.
30          Preferably the frangible or removable connection is such that a user may
   remove the lip portion from the base.
            Preferably when the lip portion is removed from the base, the base does
   not extend past the mounting faces of the mounting flanges.
            In another aspect the present invention may broadly be said to be a joist
35 hanger for connecting a first structural member, with which said joist hanger is to
   be secured by penetrative fasteners, to a joist, wherein at least one mounting
   flange is provided that presents at least one projection extending away from the
                                               6

   mounting flange in a direction that in use causes it to contact the first structural
   member, the projection able to be driven into the first member to tack the joist
   hanger in place.
             Preferably the joist hanger comprises a base plate and two side plates
 5 upwardly extending from said base plate defining a receptacle for receiving the end
   of a joist, the base plate providing upward support to a so received joist and the
   side plates providing lateral support for a so received joist.
             Preferably at least one of the side plates and the base plate can be secured
   to said joist by penetrative fasteners.
10           Preferably the penetrative fasteners are nails or threaded fasteners such as
   screws that can be received in holes of said at least one of said side plates and
   base plate.
             Preferably the base plate and side plates are integrally formed.
             Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
15 formed.
             Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
   formed from a sheet metal.
             Preferable the base plate, side plates and mounting flange(s) are integrally
   formed by bending of a single piece of sheet metal.
20           Preferably the projection is integrally formed with said base plate and side
   plates and mounting flange(s).
             Preferable the base plate, side plates, mounting flange(s) and the at least
   one projection are integrally formed by bending of a single piece of sheet metal.
             Preferably the projection is provided at at least one and preferably both of
25 said mounting flanges.
             Preferably the projection is provided at a region of at least one said
   mounting flange, distal most the base plate.
             Preferably each said mounting flange provides a respective said projection.
             Preferably the projection has a sharpened tip that is presented to make
30 first contact with said first structural member, whereafter upon pushing the
   projection into the first structural member, the mounting flange at a region
   adjacent said projection can come into contact with said first structural member.
             Preferably the projection has a sharpened tip that is presented to make
   first contact with said first structural member, whereafter upon pushing the
35 projection into the second structural member, the mounting flange at a region
   adjacent said projection can advance towards said first structural member.
                                                7

             Preferably the projection is presented to make first contact with said first
   structural member without any modification by a user.
             Preferably the projection has a plurality of sharpened tips.
             Preferably the base comprises a lip portion able in use to underlap a lower
 5 face of the first structural member, so as to provide an alignment of the connector
   with the first structural member.
             Preferably the lip portion extends substantially co-planar with the base of
   the connector, such that the lower surfaces of the first and second structural
   members may be provided also substantially co-planar when the lip is underlapped
10 with the lower face of the first structural member and the second structural
   member is located in the receptacle and on the base of the connector.
             Preferably the mounting flanges each comprise a mounting face for
   mounting to the first structural member, and the lip portion of the base extends
   past the mounting faces of the mounting flanges.
15           Preferably the lip portion is frangibly or removably connected to the base of
   the connector.
             Preferably the frangible or removable connection between the lip and the
   base comprises one or more weakened or cut-out regions.
             Preferably the frangible or removable connection is such that a user may
20 remove the lip portion from the base.
             Preferably when the lip portion is removed from the base, the base does
   not extend past the mounting faces of the mounting flanges.
             In another aspect the present invention may broadly be said to be a
   method of connecting a first and second structural members (eg a joist), the
25 method comprising the steps of
             providing a structural connector or joist hanger as herein before described
             aligning the connector to a desired orientation in relation to the first
   structural member,
             pressing or hammering the at least one projection at least partially into the
30 first structural member to tack the connector in place in its desired orientation,
             securing the connector to the first structural member using one or more
   fasteners, and
             locating the second structural member within the receptacle of the
   connector.
35           Preferably the structural connector comprises a lip portion, and the step of
   aligning the connector to a desired orientation in relation to the first structural
                                                8

   member involves at least aligning the lip portion so that it underlaps a lower face of
   the first structural member.
              Preferably the step of underlapping of the lip portion is taken where the
   first and second structural members are to be aligned so that a lower surface of
 5 each structural member lies substantially co-planar.
              Preferably where the first and second structural members are to be aligned
   so that a lower surface of each is not to lie substantially co-planar, the method
   further comprises the step of first removing a frangible lip portion from the base of
   the connector.
10           The term "axis" as used in this specification means the axis of revolution
   about which a line or a plane may be revolved to form a symmetrical shape. For
   example, a line revolved around and axis of revolution will form a surface, while a
   plane revolved around and axis of revolution will form a solid.
             The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means
15 "consisting at least in part of". When interpreting each statement in this
   specification and claims that includes the term "comprising", features other than
   that or those prefaced by the term may also be present. Related terms such as
   "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same manner.
             This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements
20 and features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application,
   individually or collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said
   parts, elements or features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein
   which have known equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such
   known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
25           The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of
   which the following gives examples only.
             To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in
   construction and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will
   suggest themselves without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in
30 the appended claims. The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely
   illustrative and are not intended to be in any sense limiting.
              For the purpose of this specification, where method steps are described in
   sequence, the sequence does not necessarily mean that the steps are to be
   chronologically ordered in that sequence, unless there is no other logical manner of
35 interpreting the sequence.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                                 9

             Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described by way of
   example only and with reference to the drawings, in which:
             Figure 1 shows a connector of one embodiment of the present invention,
             Figure 2 shows the connector of Figure 1 engaged with and secured to a
 5 first structural member and ready to receive a second structural member,
             Figure 3 shows the connector of Figure 2 wherein the connector has
   received and been secured to a second structural member,
             Figure 4a shoes a side view of one embodiment of the connector,
             Figure 4b shows a front view of one embodiment of the connector,
10           Figure 5 shows a flat panel design of a sheet of material used to
   manufacture the connector in one embodiment of the present invention,
             Figure 6 shows an alternate embodiment of the connector,
             Figures 7a-c show alternate embodiments of the projection of the
   connector,
15           Figures 8a-c show alternate configurations of the projection or projections
   on the connector,
             Figures 9a-d show views of a connector according to the present invention,
             Figures 10a-c show three different configurations of the connector of
   Figures 9a-d,
20           Figures 11a-c show different configurations of the lip portion and at least
   one projection,
             Figure 12 shows a connector in an association with a structural member,
             Figures 13a-d show various steps in the use of a connector in connecting
   two structural members together.
25
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
             With reference to Figure 1 a connector 10 for connecting a first structural
   member 1 to a second structural member 2 is shown.
             The connector comprises a base plate 11 and two side plates 12, each side
30 plate upwardly extending from the base plate. The base plate 11 and side plates 12
   define a receptacle 15 to receive an end portion of the second structural member.
             The connector further comprises at least one mounting flange 13 extending
   from one of the base plate 11 or side plates 12. As seen in Figure 1, the side plates
   13 extend from each respective side plate 12. In alternative configurations, the or
35 each mounting plate 13 may extend from the base plate 11, or from both of the
   base 11 and a respective side wall or both side walls 12.
                                              10

             As seen in Figure 2, the mounting flange or at least a portion of the
   mounting flange may in use abut a face of the first structural member 1. The or
   each mounting flange 13 may then in use abut a face of the first structural member
   and be secured to the first structural member 1 by at least one penetrative
 5 fastener. Such fasteners may include nails, screws, bolts, or other commonly used
   penetrative fasteners.
             In some embodiments there may be a single mounting flange 13 provided
   with a connector 10. In the preferred embodiment there are preferably more than
   one, and specifically two mounting flanges 13.
10           The connector 10 further comprises at least one projection 14 presented to
   contact the surface of the first structural member 1. The projection 14 is associated
   with a respective mounting flange 13 such that it may contact a surface of the first
   structural member 1 when the respective mounting flange is moved towards
   abutment with a surface of the first structural member 1.
15           The projection 14 is capable of penetrating the first structural member 1.
   Such penetration may be such that it is able to be provided by hand, by pressing,
   or by hammer or other forced or sudden contact. The configuration of the
   projection 14 is preferably such that when the projection has penetrated the first
   structural member the engagement between the connector 10 and first structural
20 member 1 is such as to hold the connector substantially in place prior to the
   connector being secured more permanently to the first structural member 1 by at
   least one penetrative fastener.
             The configuration of the projection and manner of its engagement with the
   first structural member 1 are preferably such as to result in a tacked connection,
25 whereby the connector 10 is attached to the first structural member 1 so as to at
   least support its own weight, yet not so attached as to provide structural
   connections sufficient for retaining the connector 10 against the first structural
   member 1 under the load of the second structural member 2 when received within
   the receptacle 15. It is envisaged that such a tacked connection may be provided
30 by the configuration of the projection 14 and material of the first structural member
   1, such that the projection 14 may at least partially penetrate the first structural
   member 1 by hand, without the use of any additional tool. Alternatively, the tacked
   connection of the projections 14 and the first structural member 1 may require the
   application of an external tool such as a hammer to provide an additional contact
35 force to urge the projection 14 into the first structural member.
             The base plate 11 and two side walls 12 define the receptacle 15 to receive
   an end portion of the second structural member 2. The dimensions of the
                                               11

   receptacle 15 may be customised to suit the size of the desired second structural
   member. Where the second structural member is a joist, connectors 10 may be
   provided having receptacles 15 of dimensions suitable for receiving joists of an
   array of standardised sizes.
 5           The base plate 11 of a receptacle 15 is preferably configured to provide
   upward support for the received portion of a second structural member. Each side
   plate 12 is to provide lateral support to the sides of the received joist.
             In order to secure the connector 10 to each of the first structural member
   1 and second structural member 2, one or more penetrative fasteners may be
10 driven through the connector and into the respective structural member. For
   example, one or more fasteners may be driven through a mounting flange 13 and
   into the first structural member 1, and one or more fasteners may be driven
   through either or both of the side walls 12 or base plate 11 of the receptacle 15 and
   into the second structural member 2.
15           Though in some embodiments the one or more penetrative fasteners for
   securing the connector to the structural members may be driven through the
   respective portions of the connector, in a preferred form one or more apertures or
   holes 16 are provided in the respective portions of the connector to facilitate the
   securing of it to each structural member. Such holes or apertures 16 may
20 preferably be sized so as to correspond to the penetrative portion dimensions of the
   penetrative fastener, but be sufficiently small so as to prevent a head portion of the
   penetrative fastener from passing through the aperture or hole 16.
             It is contemplated that a connector of the present invention may be formed
   by the attachment of various sub-elements to provide the overall form of the
25 connector. However, in at least some preferred embodiments at least some
   portions of the connector 10 are formed integrally. For example, the base plate 11
   and side plates 12 may be integrally formed. Alternatively, the base plate 11, side
   plates 12, and mounting flange or mounting flanges 13 are all integrally formed
   with each other. Further alternatively, but preferably, each of the base plate 11,
30 side plate 12 and the at least one mounting flange 13 and its associated projection
   are all integrally formed.
             Such integral formation may be provided by forming the connector 10, or
   such various sub-component of the connector as have previously been described as
   being integral, from a single folded sheet of material. Metal, such as stainless steel
35 or galvanized steel, may be common suitable materials for forming from a sheet.
   However, depending on the application and structural requirements other materials
   such as but not limited to plastics or other composite materials may be suitable.
                                               12

             A flat panel design for such a folded sheet integral formed connector is
   shown in Figure 5. As seen in Figure 5, the first set of folds may be made along the
   lines 21 to define the base plate 11 and upwardly projecting side plates 12. A
   further fold may be made along the lines 22 to define each mounting flange 13
 5 from their respective side plate 12. A final fold may be made along the lines 23 to
   form the projections 14 from the mounting flanges 13.
             In a preferred form the projections 14 are formed by a bending of the
   sheet of material from which the connector 10 is formed, thus being integrally
   formed with the other components of the connector. In alternative forms it is also
10 possible that the projections 14 may be comprised by separate components which
   are then engaged with the connector 10 so as to project past their respective
   mounting flange and performing the function of contacting the surface of the first
   structural member and penetrating it under a contact force.
             The embodiment of the connector shown in Figure 1 is seen secured to the
15 first structural member 1 in Figure 2. As seen in figure 2 the projections 14 of each
   mounting flange 13 have been engaged with the material of the first structural
   member, then a plurality of fasteners 18 have been engaged with the connector 10
   and first structural member 1 to secure these components together. As seen in
   figure 2 the connector is ready to receive a portion of the second structural member
20 2 within the receptacle 15 of the connector.
             Figure 3 shows the configuration of Figure 2 wherein the second structural
   member has been received within the receptacle 15 and the connector secured to
   the second structural member.
             Figures 4a and 4b show a side view and front view respectively of the
25 connector 10. In the side view of Figure 4A a side wall 12 is visible along with the
   side of the mounting flange 13 and projection 14. As shown in Figure 4A each side
   wall 12 have a slanted free edge 24. Such a configuration of the shape of the side
   plates 12 may be desirable in order to provide a sufficiently wide supporting base
   plate 11, yet reduce wasted material towards the upper portion of wide walls.
30 However, in alternate embodiments it may be desirable to remove the slanted edge
   24 of one or each side plate 12 and have the side plate 12 be of a substantially
   rectangular or other shape. Such a configuration may be desirable in order to
   provide increased area of the side plate 12 for fixing penetrative fasteners to the
   second structural member 2.
35           The front view of the connector shown in Figure 4B shows the front faces of
   the two mounting flanges 13, the base 11, the leading edges of each projection 14,
   and the receptacle 15 for receiving a portion of the second structural member 2.
                                                13

             In a preferred embodiment the connector 10 as previously described is
   provided with two mounting flanges 13, one mounting flange being associated with
   each respective side plate 12. In most applications it is anticipated that these two
   mounting flanges 13 should present substantially co-planar faces, so as to facilitate
 5 the mounting of the connector 10 to the substantially planar face of a first
   structural member, such as the side face of a bearer or beam. However, for certain
   applications it is anticipated that the faces of each mounting flange 13 may be
   angled relative to each other such that they are not co-planar; this may facilitate
   attachment to various other desired forms of first structural members.
10           As seen in Figures 2 and 3, in some embodiments the configuration of the
   base plate 11 relative to the mounting flange 13 may be such as to provide a both
   laterally and vertically perpendicular relationship between the first structural
   member and second structural member when secured together by the connector
   10. However, as shown in Figure 6, the configuration of the connector 10 may be
15 such as to provide the first structural member and second structural member at a
   non-perpendicular vertical angle relative to each other. Furthermore, the
   configuration of the side walls 12 and base plate 11 relative to the mounting flange
   13 may be such as to provide the first and second structural members at a laterally
   non-perpendicular angle relative to each other. For particular applications
20 combinations of these configurations may be provided, so as to provide the first
   and second structural members secured together at any desired lateral and vertical
   angle relative to each other.
             Figure 6 shows a connector 10 secured to the first structural member 1 by
   a plurality of penetrative fasteners 18, after having its projection 14 engaged with
25 the first structural member. The second structural member 2 has then been placed
   in the receptacle 15 and is supported by the base plate 11 and side walls 12 of the
   connector. As seen in Figure 6 penetrative fasteners have not yet been engaged
   with the second structural member to secure the connector to the second structural
   member.
30           The embodiment of the connector shown in Figure 6 furthermore illustrates
   an alternative configuration wherein the angle between the base plate 11 and
   mounting flange 13 is non-perpendicular.
             In the configuration of Figure 6 the base plate is slanted downwards away
   from the mounting flanges 13, allowing the connector to accommodate and receive
35 in its receptacle 15 a second structural member 2 which is downwardly angled away
   from the first structural member 1. Such a configuration of the connector 10 may
   be desirable for example in a roof application, where the second structural member
                                               14

   is a roof joist which is angled downwards from a central beam or bearer, being the
   first structural member 1.
             As the projection 14 of the connector projects past its associated mounting
   flange 13, an immediate engagement between the projection 14 and first structural
 5 member 1 may be provided as the connector 10 is aligned to its desired position on
   the first structural connector. This engagement between the projection and the first
   structural member does preferably not require any external action to initiate other
   than a contact force on the body of the connector 10, particularly on one or each
   mounting flange 13.
10           Such a contact force is preferably a force of a magnitude capable of being
   applied by hand, such as by the pushing with fingers or thumb, or by the
   application of force with a hammer or like object. As the projection 14 projects past
   the face of the mounting flange no modification to the structure of the connector
   10, such as bending of a component, is required in order to initiate the engagement
15 of a projection 14 with the first structural member 1.
             Figure 7A to 7C show top-down views of the connector 10, showing detail
   of different embodiments of the projection 14.
             In Figure 7A a primary embodiment is shown wherein the projection 14
   comprises a substantially triangular projection from its associated mounting flange
20 13, the base of the triangle being located approximate to the mounting flange, and
   the point of the triangle projecting away from the mounting face of the mounting
   flange 13. Such a triangular projection may be of a shallow depth, wherein the base
   of the triangle is substantially wider than the height of the triangle. Alternatively,
   configurations may be provided for whereby the height of the triangle is similar to
25 the width of its base, or even greater than the width of its base.
             While shown in Figure 7A as having a base substantially equal to the width
   of the mounting flange, the projection 14 may have a base that is narrower than
   the width of the mounting flange 13.
             As a primary purpose of the projections 14 is to provide for a tacking
30 engagement of the connector 10 with the first structural member 1 before
   penetrative fasteners are required to be engaged, in most embodiments the depth
   of the projections 14, being a distance which they project away from their
   associated mounting flange 13, should be such as to at least support the weight of
   the connector 10 and preferably also small external bumping forces when engaged
35 with the first structural member without the tacked connection being dislodged.
             While a projection 14 of any projection depth may be engaged with the
   first structural member, provided there is sufficient sharpness of the projection and
                                               15

   force applied to the projection, it is furthermore desirable to provide a projection
   which may be fully or substantially fully engaged with the first structural member
   either by hand or by the application of an external force such as with a hammer.
             Accordingly, the projection may have one or more pointed regions, as
 5 shown in each of Figures 7A-7C. Furthermore, the projection may have a thin
   profile, able to prevent against buckling while being engaged with the first
   structural member, but not so thick as to unnecessarily inhibit the engagement.
   The projection may also have one or more sharpened edges, to enhance the
   projection's ability to be engaged with the first structural member.
10           Preferably the depth and other characteristics of the projections are such
   that they may be fully engaged with the first structural member either by hand or
   by the application of an external force such as by hammer, thus allowing their
   respective mounting flange 13 to lie substantially flush with at least a portion of the
   first structural member 1.
15           An alternate embodiment of the projections 14 is shown in Figure 7B
   wherein the projections 14 comprise a plurality of smaller teeth or projection 17.
   Such a serrated formation of multiple teeth or projections 17 may provide an
   increased surface area of engagement between the projections 14 and first
   structural member 1, resulting in a more secure tacked connection between the
20 respective components.
             Further alternatively in Figure 7C the projections 14 are shown each
   comprising a set of triangular projections. This set of triangular projections together
   comprise a base link equal to the width of the projections respective mounting
   flange 13.
25           While in foregoing embodiments the connector 10 has been shown to
   comprise a plurality of projections 14, one associated with each respective
   mounting flange 13, alternative embodiments are contemplated wherein a single
   projection is associated with a single mounting flange, or multiple projections are
   associated with one or each mounting flange 13.
30           Shown in Figure 8a is an embodiment of the connector 10 wherein the
   projections 14 are associated with the lower end of each mounting flange 13, being
   the end proximate to the base plate 11.
             Another alternative form is shown in Figure 8b wherein each mounting
   flange 13 has two associated projections 14, each projection 14 of each mounting
35 flange being associated with either end of the mounting flange.
             A further alternate embodiment is shown in Figure 8c, wherein the
   projections 14 of each mounting flange 13 extend from a side portion of the
                                                16

   mounting flange, being a portion most distal from the receptacle 15 of the
   connector.
             Any number of such configurations or combinations of such configurations
   may be provided for within the scope of the present invention so long as the
 5 projections 14 project from an associated mounting flange to contact the surface of
   the first structural member, and are capable of penetrating the first structural
   member.
             Having mind to the foregoing description of the connector 10 of the present
   invention, and particularly of Figures 1-8c, a method of using the connector will
10 now be described.
             In order to securely connect two structural members together, such as
   bearer and a joist, a connector 10 may be aligned with the bearer, while proximate
   yet not in contact with the bearer. The desired orientation may at least be defined
   by the position and rotation of the receptacle 15 relative to the bearer, as the
15 receptacle receives the joist end portion and is thus largely analogous with the
   future position of the joist end portion.
             Once the connector has been placed in the desired orientation, the
   mounting flange 13 of the connector may be advanced towards a surface of the
   bearer, so as to abut it. Due to the projecting nature of the projection 14
20 associated with the mounting flange 13, as the mounting flange is advance to abut
   the surface of the bearer, the projection will come in contact with the bearer.
             In order to tack the connector into the desired orientation, pressure must
   then be applied to the projections to force them into engagement, at least partially,
   with the first structural member.
25           Dependent on the configuration of the projection of the connector and the
   material of the bearer the projection may be forced in by pressure applied by the
   user by hand. Alternatively, the user may tap or knock the projections into place
   using a hammer or like implement.
             Once the connector is tacked to the bearer by the projection, the user may
30 release the connector and have the connector be maintained in its desired and
   tacked orientation. The user may then attach one or more penetrating fasteners,
   such as screws or nails or the like to secure the connector in its position against
   bearer.
             The joist end portion may then be located within the receptacle 15, and
35 likely butted against the bearer. Once in the desired position, one or more
   penetrative fasteners may be attached through the side walls or base plate of the
   connector and into the joist to secure the joist and connector together.
                                              17

             As a result of this securing using a connector of the present invention a
   structural connection between two structural members, such as a bearer and a
   joist, may be provided wherein the orientation of the structural members relative to
   each other may be fixed with a significant degree of accuracy and ease.
 5           Three potential embodiments of the connector 10 are shown in Figures 10A
   to 10C. The connectors of Figures 10A to 10C illustrate various configurations such
   that differing sizes of second structural members 2 may be accommodated.
             Also shown in the embodiments of Figures 10A to 10C is a lip portion 25 of
   the base 11 of the connector 10. The lip portion 25 preferably extends from an
10 edge of the base 11, such that it projects past the faces of the mounting flanges 13
   which, in use, contact the first structural member. Where two structural members,
   a first structural member 1 and a second structural member 2, are to be aligned so
   that their lower surfaces are substantially co-planar, the embodiment of the
   connector 10 having the lip portion 25 may enable this alignment.
15           Details of a connector 10, particularly as shown in Figures 9A to 10C, will
   now be described. The connector is for connecting first and second structural
   members together. Examples of such first and second structural members in
   common applications may be timber beams and joists respectively. The connector
   10 is for mounting to a surface 26 of the first structural connector or beam, and for
20 receiving at least a portion of second structural member or joist. Such a
   configuration of a connector 10 mounting to a face of the first structural member 1
   and receiving a portion of the second structural member 2 is seen for example in
   Figure 3.
             The connector 10 comprises a lip portion 25 and at least one projection 14.
25 The relationship between the lip portion and at least one projection are such that in
   use when the lip is placed into an underlapping association with a bottom surface of
   the first structural member 1, the at least one projection 14 may be forced into a
   tacking engagement with the first structural member. This forcing of the at least
   one projection may occur due to a pivoting of the connector 10 about the lip portion
30 25 at the underlapping association of the lip with the bottom surface of the first
   structural member. Alternatively or in addition, the forcing of the at least one
   projection may occur due to a movement of the connector 10 towards the first
   structural member 1 and parallel with its bottom surface. The bottom surface of the
   first structural member 1 is a surface both adjacent and in most applications
35 substantially perpendicular to the mounting surface 26 of the first structural
   member 1.
                                               18

             The tacking engagement of the at least one projection 14 and first
   structural member is such to cause the connector to be tacked in the position
   where it was placed relative to the first structural member. The tacking
   engagement is preferably such that the connector may be held, at least
 5 temporarily, in the position in which it was placed. A user's hands may then be free
   to fasten the connector to the first structural member, such as by the use of a
   hammer and nail or screws, or a user may perform other tasks, all the while the
   tacking engagement serving to hold the connector on the first structural member
   without actively being retained there by the user. Such a tacking engagement may
10 be advantageous as it effects the temporary fixing of the connector to the first
   structural member, but does not require any additional parts or further actions to
   be performed by the user other than simply the alignment of and placement onto
   the first structural member of the connector 10.
             Where the at least one projection 14 is to project from the mounting flange
15 or flanges 13, the at least one projection is preferably configured so that when
   tackingly engaged with the first structural member the mounting flange 13 abuts
   the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member 1. This may require the
   adaptation of the depth, width, or thickness of the projection or projections
   dependent on the material of the first structural member which it is to penetrate.
20 For example, for softer woods, a larger projection may be pressed or hammered
   with ease into the timber. Conversely, in a harder timber first structural member a
   less deep projection or projections may provide sufficient engagement so as to
   perform the desired function of holding the connector in its placed orientation
   relative to the first structural member.
25           The tacking engagement of the connector and the first structural member
   may be such that the tacking engagement is able to be effected simply by the
   pivoting or movement of the connector relative to the first structural member as
   previously described. In addition or alternatively, the tacking engagement of the
   connector with the first structural member may be assisted by pressing by hand or
30 by a hammer. For example, a user may apply pressure on the connector proximate
   to the at least one projection 14 in order to penetrate the first structural member
   and provide the tacking engagement or, having provided an initial engagement of
   the tip or tips of the at least one projection 14 with the first structural member, a
   user may apply force with a hammer to force the penetration of the first structural
35 member by the at least one projection 14. Where applicable, following the
   application of a sufficient force by hand or hammer, or other tool, the connector is
                                                19

   to be provided tackingly engaged with the first structural member, as described
   above.
             Where the connector is placed with its lip in an underlapping association
   with the bottom surface of the first structural member and then the at least one
 5 projection 14 is pivoted into engagement with the first structural member, it may
   be desirable to provide the at least one projection spaced apart from the lip. For
   example, the lip portion 25 and at least one projection 14 may be provided at or
   towards two respective ends of the connector, as seen for example in Figure 9C. By
   placing the lip portion and projection or projections at opposing ends of the
10 connector it may be easier for a user to align the lip 25 in its underlapping
   configuration with the bottom surface of the first structural member. Additionally,
   providing the lip 25 and projection or projections 14 spaced apart may enhance the
   ability for a user to pivot the projections 14 into engagement with the first
   structural member 1 about the underlapping configuration of the lip 25 and first
15 structural member 1.
             As shown in various embodiments described herein, the connector 10
   comprises a receiving channel or receptacle 15 for receiving a portion of the second
   structural member or joist. The receiving channel or receptacle 15 may define at
   least in part an alignment zone. The alignment zone is characterised by a zone of
20 increasing length from a mouth of the channel 15 towards the base 11 of the
   channel. As seen for example in Figure 2, the length of the side plates 12 increase
   from the mouth of the receiving channel or receptacle 15 towards the base 11.
             Where an end portion of the second structural member or joist 2 is to be
   placed into the receptacle 15 once the connector 10 has been securely fixed to the
25 first structural member or beam, the alignment zone may provide for the receipt
   within the receptacle 15 of an increasing portion of the second structural member
   or joist. This configuration may therefore allow for the insertion of the joist into the
   mouth of the receptacle with some angular misalignment, but as the joist
   progresses further through the alignment zone towards the base 11 of the
30 receptacle 15, to progressively align the joist towards its desired final alignment at
   which it rests when fully received within the receiving channel YY or receptacle 15.
   As seen in Figure 3, such an alignment of the joist 2 may be at 90 degrees to the
   mounting flanges 13 and beam 1, or in other configurations a connector 10 may
   accommodate any other desired angle, being the angle of the side plates 12
35 relative to the mounting flange or flanges 13.
             In some forms the tacking engagement of the projections 14 with first
   structural member may be such that the mounting face 33 is substantially flush
                                               20

   with the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member. However, it is
   appreciated that the flush mounting of the mounting face 33 of the connector with
   the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member may not be necessary.
             Ultimately, the desired tacking engagement over the connector with the
 5 first structural member is such that at a minimum the connector may support its
   own weight on the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member, such that it
   may hold itself in its placed position on the first structural member. A method of
   using a connector 10 as described herein for connecting a first and second
   structural members will now be described. This method is the preferred method of
10 performing the invention.
             Such a connector 10 comprises at least a mounting face 33 for mounting to
   a mounting surface 26 of the first structural member. It also comprises a receiving
   channel or receptacle 15 for receiving at least a portion of the second structural
   member. The connector 10 comprises a lip portion 25 and at least one projection
15 14. In the preferred form both the lip portion 25 and the at least one projection 14
   extend past the mounting face 33 of the connector 10.
             In the use of such a connector 10, the connector is first aligned at a
   desired position along an elongate direction of the first structural member. For
   example, where the first structural member is a beam within a flooring system
20 along which joists are to be spaced, the connector 10 is first aligned along the
   length of the beam so that it corresponds with the desired placement of the next
   joist on the beam 1.
             Preferably the step of aligning the connector is conducted when the
   connector 10 is spaced away from the first structural member or beam 1 such that
25 the at least one projection 14 and preferably also the lip 25 do not engage with any
   part of the first structural member or beam 1.
             Once aligned along the elongate direction of the first structural member,
   the connector 10 and particularly its lip portion 25 is to be moved towards an
   alignment surface 27 of the first structural member. Such a movement is for
30 example seen in Figure 13a, where the connector 10 is moved in the direction of
   the arrow 28.
             The alignment surface 27 is a surface which is both adjacent to and in most
   applications substantially perpendicular to the mounting surface 26 of the first
   structural member. For example, as seen in Figure 13a, the alignment surface 27 is
35 the bottom surface of the beam 1, which is adjacent and substantially perpendicular
   to the mounting surface 26.
                                               21

             The moving of the connector 10 towards the alignment surface 27 of the
   first structural member is to be movement so as to cause the lip portion 25 to be in
   an at least partially underlapping association with the alignment surface 27 of the
   first structural member. An example of a lip portion 25 in a partially underlapping
 5 association with an alignment surface 27 are shown in Figure 13b.
             Preferably the moving of the connector so that the lip is at least partially
   underlapping with the alignment surface 27 maintains an orientation of the
   connector 10 relative to the first structural member 1 and its mounting surface 26
   such that the lip 25 may be underlapping with the alignment surface 27, but the at
10 least one projection 14 does not engage with the mounting surface 26.
             Once the lip portion 25 is in an at least partially underlapping association
   with the alignment surface 27, the connector 10 is moved towards the orientation
   in which it is to be mounted to the first structural member 1. This desired mounting
   orientation will be in most applications an orientation where the mounting face 33 is
15 substantially flush with the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member 1.
             The movement of the connector 10 with its lip 25 at least partially
   underlapping the alignment surface 27 towards its desired placement orientation
   relative to the first structural member is shown in Figure 13b. In Figure 13b, the
   connector 10 is to be rotated in the direction of arrow 29 in order to engage the at
20 least one projection 14 with the first structural member 1.
             The movement of the connector towards its desired orientation preferably
   also substantially aligns the mounting face 33 of the connector with the mounting
   surface 26 of the first structural member.
             As shown in Figure 13b, the movement of the connector towards its
25 desired orientation may comprise a pivoting of the connector about the
   underlapping association of the lip 25 and alignment surface 27, in the direction of
   arrow 29.
             Alternatively, where the lip 25 projects further from the mounting face 33
   than the at least one projection 14, the connector 10 may be provided in its at least
30 partially underlapping configuration while the mounting face 33 is substantially
   parallel with the mounting surface 26 of the first structural member. In such a
   situation, the movement of the connector towards its desired orientation may be
   provided simply by a translation of the connector 10 along the at least partial
   underlapping association of the lip 25 of the alignment surface 27. This translation
35 moves mounting face 33 of the connector towards abutment with the mounting
   surface 26 of the first structural member 1 in order to tackingly engage the at least
   one projection 14 with the first structural member 1. The connector 10 tackingly
                                               22

   engaged to the first structural member is shown for example in Figure 12, where
   the lip portion 25 of the connector 10 is also underlapping the alignment surface 27
   of the first structural member 1.
             The tacking engagement may be able to be effected by the movement of
 5 the connector towards its desired orientation as has been described. Or, it may
   require some further action by a user, such as pressing by hand on the connector,
   or blows with hammer or other tool, in order to provide the tacking engagement.
             Following the tacking engagement of the connector 10 with the first
   structural member 1 by its at least one projection 14 the connector 10 may be
10 fastened to at the mounting face 33 of the connector to the mounting surface of the
   first structural member using one or more fasteners 18. The connector 10 when
   fastened to the first structural member with a plurality of fasteners 18 is shown in
   Figure 13d.
             In the configuration shown in Figure 13c, the at least one projection 14 is
15 also fully driven into the first structural member, if it was not previously fully driven
   in order to effect the tacking engagement.
             Once the connector 10 is securely fastened to the first structural member
   1, the second structural member may be located within the receiving channel or
   receptacle 15 of the connector. As seen in Figure 13d the second structural member
20 2 has been moved in the direction of the arrow 30 such that it is fully received
   within the receiving channel or receptacle 15.
             Once the second structural member 2 has been received within the
   receiving channel or receptacle 15 the connector 10 may also be fastened to the
   second structural member 2 by way of one or more fasteners 18. The fasteners
25 may be inserted through one or more holes or apertures 16 provided in the body of
   the connector, or they may simply be driven through the body of the connector and
   into the second structural member. Once fastened, the structural connection
   between the first and second structural members using the connector 10 is
   completed.
30           For added strength, further fastening of the first and second structural
   members to each other may be conducted, such as by nailing the two members
   together. However the connector 10 holds the first and second structural members
   in their connected alignment relative to each other, and such further fastening does
   not require any other holding of the structural members in order to maintain their
35 desired alignment.
             As seen in Figure 13d, the alignment surface 27 of the first structural
   member 1 is aligned with a corresponding surface 32 of the second structural
                                                23

   member, which rests on the base 11 of the connector 10. Where the beam 1 and
   joist 2 are of the same height, as is the case in the configuration of Figure 13d, this
   alignment of the alignment surface 27 of the beam 1 and corresponding surface 32
   of the joist 2 will serve to provide the opposing top surfaces of the beam and joist
 5 aligned with each other. This result is effected by the provision of the lip portion 25
   coplanar with the base 11 of the connector.
             Thus the configuration of the connector 10 and particularly of its lip 25 in
   relation to the base 11, determines the alignment between both the bottom and top
   surfaces of a first and second structural member when connected using the
10 connector 10. In other words, by the use of the connector to mount to a mounting
   surface 27 of a first structural member, as has been previously described, and the
   receiving of a second structural member 2 within the receiving channel or
   receptacle 15 of the connector, a predetermined relationship between the
   alignment surface 27 and corresponding surface 32, and resultingly also between
15 the respective top surfaces of the first and second structural members, may be
   provided.
             Simply the use of the connector as previously described will result in this
   predetermined relationship of the surfaces of the first and second structural
   members and their respective surfaces to each other, without requiring any further
20 steps or manual alignment of the first or second structural members relative to
   each other.
             The previously described configurations of the connector provide the lip
   portion 25 in the same plane as the base 11, such that the alignment surface 27 of
   a first structural member will be aligned with a corresponding surface 32 of a
25 connected second structural member, at least at the interface between the two
   surfaces.
             It may however be desirable to provide a predetermined offset between
   the level of the lip portion 25 and the base 11 of the connector 10. For example,
   such a situation may include where a joist of a particular vertical dimension is to be
30 connected with a beam of a greater vertical dimension. In such a configuration an
   offset between the lip portion 25 and base 11 which is equal to the difference in
   height between the joist and the beam will allow the beam and joist to be
   connected using the connector as has been previously described and result in the
   alignment of the top surfaces of the beam and joist, being those surfaces opposite
35 the alignment surface 27 and corresponding surface 32.
                                              24

             Where a joist to be connected to a beam of a lesser height than the joist,
   an offset in the opposite direction could be used in order to affect the alignment of
   the top surfaces of the beam and joist of such a beam and joist.
             While in most applications it may be desirable to align two surfaces of the
 5 beam and joist, or at least an edge of two surfaces of a beam and joist, the
   connector 10 of the present invention is able to be adapted by varying the offset
   between the lip portion 25 and base 11 as has been described in order to provide
   any desired offset between any two corresponding surfaces of a beam and joist.
             For different applications the respective distance past the mounting face 33
10 of the connector of the lip portion 25 and at least one projection 14 may be varied.
   For example, as seen in Figure 11a, the at least one projection 14 extends further
   away from the mounting face 33 of the connector than does the lip portion 25. As
   seen in Figure 11b, the lip portion 25 and at least one projection 14 extend a
   substantially equal distance away from the mounting face of the connector. Finally,
15 in Figure 11c the lip portion 25 extends further away from the mounting face of the
   connector than does the at least one projection 14.
             These different configurations may each be desirable in different
   applications, dependent on variables such as the type of material of the first
   structural member into which the at least one projection 14 is to penetrate for the
20 degree of tacking engagement required in that particular application. It is
   contemplated that a relatively short lip portion 25, such as shown in Figure 11a or
   11b, may facilitate the snug fitment of the corner of the first structural member 1
   against at least part of the lip portion 25 and at least a part of the mounting face of
   the connector which is adjacent to the lip portion 25. This snug fitment may
25 prevent a gap developing either between the lower part of the mounting face 33 of
   the connector and the mounting surface 26 or between the alignment surface 27
   and lip portion 25 when the at least one projection 14 is tackingly engaged with the
   first structural member. Any such gap could result in an unintended offset between
   the alignment surface 27 and corresponding surface 32 of the second structural
30 member.
             In a preferred form, as seen in Figures 11a to 11c of the at least one
   projection is spaced apart from the lip portion along the mounting face 33 of the
   connector. While shown spaced at opposed ends of the connector 10, other
   spacings, such as with the at least one projection 14 exposed part way along the
35 mounting face of the connector, may be desirable.
             In most applications the spacing between the lip portion 25 and at least
   one projection 14 along the mounting face of the connector should be such that
                                               25

   they enable the substantially separate operations of moving the connector so that
   the lip portion 25 is at least partially underlapping with the alignment surface 27,
   and the step of forcing the at least one projection 14 into tacking engagement with
   the first structural member 1.
 5           By providing a maximum of spacing between the lip portion 25 and at least
   one projection 14 along the mounting face of the connector, as is seen in Figures
   11a to 11c, a user may more readily provide the described underlapping
   relationship, and preferably also more readily provide a more complete
   underlapping association of the lip portion 25 with the alignment surface 27,
10 without causing unintended interactions of the at least one projection 14 with the
   first structural member 1. The spacing apart of the lip portion 25 and at least one
   projection 14 may be desirable to enable the separate operation of the steps of
   underlapping the lip and levering the projections at the at least one projection into
   tacking engagement with the first structural member.
15           The connector 10 of the present invention may also be described as having
   a first and second connected states relative to a first structural member 1. Both the
   first and second connected states comprise a connection between the connector 10
   and first structural member 1 such that the weight of the connector 10 may be
   supported.
20           The first connected state corresponds to the tackingly engagement of the
   at least one projection 14 with the first structural member as has been described,
   and is affected without the use of any fasteners or other components external to
   the connector. In other words, the first connected state is affected only by the
   interaction of the at least one projection with the first structural member. Thus the
25 connector 10 may be provided in its first connected state, able to support the
   weight of the connector and retain the connector 10 at its placed position on the
   first structural member, by involving only the interaction between the connector
   and first structural member of parts integral with the connector. In order to affect
   the first connected state no external fasteners or additional components, such as
30 screws or nails, are required.
   The second connected state relates to a condition where the connection between
   the connector 10 and first structural member 1 is such that a second structural
   member 2 may be received within and supported by the receiving channel or
   receptacle 15 of the connector 10.
35           It is contemplated that the lip portion 25 may enable a user to more
   accurately set the connector 10 at the desired height to cause the connected first
   and second structural members lower surfaces to be provided at the same height.
                                               26

   For example, rather than locating the connector 10 into the desired vertical position
   relative to the first structural member, holding or otherwise securing in place, then
   tacking the projections 14 into the first structural member to provide a preliminary
   hold, a user may simply slide the mounting flanges 13 of the connector upwards
 5 against the first structural member until the lip portion 25 is engaged with the
   lower surface of the first structural member. Then simply by maintaining the force
   to hold the connector against the lower surface, the connector 10 may be
   maintained at least in its vertical position relative to the first structural member but
   preferably in its rotational position on the mounting face of the first structural
10 member prior to and as the projections 14 are tacked into the first structural
   member.
             As such, it is contemplated that the provision of the lip portion 25 which
   projects past the mounting flanges 13 may expedite the process of connecting first
   and second structural members where it is desired to align the lower surfaces of
15 those structural members. Furthermore, it is contemplated that the lip portion 25
   may enable increased accuracy of the co-planar fixing of the lower surfaces of the
   structural members relative to each other due to the fact that a simple force of the
   connector upwards to retain the lip portion 25 in contact with the lower face of the
   first structural member is all that is required to retain the connector in its desired
20 vertical position prior to tacking of the projections 14 or attachment of one or more
   fasteners.
             While it may commonly be desirable to fix first and second structural
   members so that their lower surfaces are co-planar, the connector 10 may also be
   used in other configurations. For example, the connector 10 of any one of Figures
25 1 to 8C for example may be provided in any desired placement on the face of a first
   structural member, not just so that the base 11 is at the level of the lower face of
   the first structural member. This may for example be desirable where a first
   structural member of a greater height is to be connected with a second structural
   member of a lesser height, and their top surfaces are to be aligned. The placement
30 of the connector 10 away from the lower surface of the first structural member 1
   may therefore be desirable in order to locate the upper surfaces of the first and
   second structural members co-planar with each other. While such an application is
   contemplated for the connectors shown in Figures 1 to 8C, it is also contemplated
   for connectors having a lip portion 25 as previously described.
35           Views of such a connector capable of both applications is shown in Figures
   10A to 10D. As shown most clearly in Figures 10A and 10D, the base portion 11 of
   the connector 10 comprises a lip portion 25 projecting substantially co-planar with
                                               27

   the base 11 and past the assembled location of the mounting flanges 13. In
   addition to the features and functionality of the lip portion 25 as previously
   described, the lip portion 25 shown in the embodiment of Figures 10A to 10D
   preferably additionally comprises one or more perforations, weakenings, or cuts 26
 5 at the connection between the lip portion 25 and base 11, such that the lip portion
   25 is frangible from the base 11. Preferably the perforations, cuts or weakenings
   are such as to allow a user to bend, tear or sever the lip portion 25 from the base
   11, yet to still allow sufficient structural connection between the lip portion 25 and
   base 11 so as to retain their co-planar relationship to each other even during the
10 pressing of the lip portion 25 into a lower face of the first structural member.
            In a preferred form the weakening of the connection of the lip portion 25
   and base 11 is provided by one or more cutouts, such as stamped cutouts, in the
   material between the lip portion 25 and base 11. The weakening is preferably such
   as to enable or make it easier to separate the lip 25 from the base 11, so that
15 neither the lip portion 25 nor base 11 project past the mounting flanges 13 and the
   connector 10 may be mounted to other portions of the face of the first structural
   member, as previously described. Such a suitable weakening may be one that
   allows the separation of a lip from the base under a tearing of the portion relative
   to each other, or preferably by a repeated bending of the lip relative to the base, in
20 order to weaken and cause the yielding of the remaining material of the connection
   between the lip and base 11. An example of such a weakening, where a plurality of
   cuts or punctures have been made in the connection between the lip 25 and base
   11, leaving two thin portions of material remaining, is shown most clearly in Figures
   10A and 10D.
25          While a projecting lip 25 of any depth desired may be provided within the
   scope of the invention, in the preferred forms the lip 25 will project past the
   mounting flanges 13 only so far as to enable its function of contacting the lower
   surface of the first structural member and allowing the alignment of the connector
   10 therewith.
30          The weakening of the connection between the lip portion 25 and base 11 is
   preferably such that a user may readily separate the lip from the base either by
   hand or by the use of small hand tools, such as a pair of pliers or a hammer. For
   example, it may be preferable that the user can bend the lip portion 25 at its
   connection to the base 11 by hand so as to cause the weakening and yielding of the
35 material at the connection. Alternatively, this bending and weakening may be
   performed by grasping with a pair of pliers, or the bending back and forth of the lip
   25 by contact with a hammer.
                                                 28

             The connection between the lip portion 25 and base 11 is preferably such
   that upon the removal of the lip portion, no part of the base 11 projects past the
   mounting flanges 13. This allows the placement of the connector in non
   underlapping configurations with the first structural member, without interference
 5 from the lip portion 25 or base 11 at the mounting flanges 13.
             While in the preferred form the lip portion 25 is frangibly connected to the
   base 11 such that it may be removed by a user, in other forms the lip portion 25
   may simply be bent away from its initial substantially co-planar association with the
   base 11. The bending is preferably such that the lip portion no longer projects past
10 the mounting flanges 13 and the connector may be mounted in non-underlapping
   configurations as has previously been described.
             Where the lip portion 25 is to be bent away from its initial configuration to
   allow the non-underlapping use of the connector in association with a first
   structural member, the connection between the lip portion and base preferably
15 comprises one or more weakened portions, scribes or cut-outs to enable to bending
   of the lip portion at the connection.
             Additionally shown in Figures 9A to 9C and 10A to 10D are further details
   of the configuration of the projections 14. As seen in the top-down view of Figure
   10A, the projections of this embodiment comprise a projection of lesser width than
20 the width of its associated mounting flange 13. By providing a relatively narrower
   projection 14 the cross sectional area of the projection which is to be driven into
   the material of the first structural member may be reduced. This reduction in area
   may cause a decrease in the force required to tack the projections 14 into the first
   structural member 1.
25           Additionally seen in the configuration of Figures 9A to 9C and 10A to 10D
   are that the projections 14 are provided towards the outsides of the mounting
   flanges 13, being at a position away from the receptacle 15. It is contemplated
   that such a configuration, wherein the spacing between the projections 14 is
   increased, may provide increased torsional stability of the connector 10 once the
30 projections 14 have been tacked into the first structural member. This may
   particularly be desirable prior to and during the fixing of the fasteners 18 through
   the connector 10 to the first structural member 1.
             As previously described, the first and second structural members may
   respectively comprise a beam and a joist. Such beams and joists may be of any
35 material such that the at least one projection 14 is capable of penetrating their
   surface and lodging within them so as to provide the tacking engagement. The
                                               29

   most commonly used material in such beams and joists will be a timber material or
   some form of a timber or some form of timber composite.
             The dimensions of the connector 10 of the present invention, and more
   particularly the receptacle 15 of the connector 10, may be varied to suit the desired
 5 application. For example, the width of the base 11 may be varied within the scope
   of the invention in order to accommodate a second structural member 2 of a
   particular width. Similarly, the height of the side plates 12 and mounting flanges
   13 may be varied to suit the height of the first and second structural members to
   which the connector is to be attached. For various different potential applications it
10 may further be desirable to have a greater or lesser number of holes 16 of the
   connector 10 to receive corresponding fasteners 18. For example, a particular
   structural application may require the connector 10 to form a connection between
   the first and second structural members to a particular load carrying capacity,
   requiring a corresponding number of fasteners 18.
15
                                              30

          CLAIMS
           1.     A method of using a connector for connecting a first structural
   member and second structural member, the connector comprising
 5        a mounting face for mounting to a mounting surface of the first structural
   member,
          a receiving channel for receiving at least a portion of the second structural
   member,
          a lip portion and,
10        at least one projection,
          wherein both the lip portion and at least one projection extend past the
   mounting face of the connector,
          the method comprising the steps of
          (a) aligning the connector at a desired position along an elongate direction
15             of the first structural member,
          (b) moving the connector towards an alignment surface of the first
               structural member so as to cause the lip portion to be in an at least
               partially underlapping association with the alignment surface,
          (c) moving the connector towards a desired orientation relative to the first
20             structural member by either pivoting the connector about the lip at the
               underlapping association of the lip with the alignment surface and/or
               moving the connector towards the first structural member and parallel
               with its alignment surface, the pivoting and/or movement acting to
               direct the mounting face towards abutment with the mounting surface
25             of the first structural member and to tackingly engage the at least one
               projection with the first structural member such that the connector may
               be held in its desired orientation,
          (d) fastening the tackingly engaged connector at the mounting face to the
               mounting surface of the first structural member using one or more
30             fasteners,
          (e) locating a second structural member within the receiving channel of the
               connector, and
          (f) fastening the second structural member to either the connector or the
               first structural member using one or more fasteners.
35
                                              31

             2.    The method of claim 1 wherein the lip of the connector extends past
   the mounting face further than the at least one projection extends past the
   mounting face.
             3.    The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the at least one projection of the
 5 connector is spaced apart from the lip portion.
             4.    The method of any one of claims 1-3 wherein the at least one
   projection of the connector and lip are spaced apart so as to be substantially at
   opposed ends of the connector, the spacing of the projections and lip allowing for a
   levering of the projections into the first structural member about the underlapping
10 association of the lip and the alignment surface of the first structural member.
             5.    The method of any one of claims 1-4 wherein the first and second
   structural members are substantially rectangular members, and the alignment
   surface of the first structural member is adjacent to and substantially perpendicular
   to the mounting surface of the first structural member.
15           6.    The method of any one of claims 1-5 wherein at least the first
   structural member comprises a crushable material such as to be penetrated by the
   at least one projection of the connector under forcing by hand or hammer.
             7.    The method of claim 6 wherein at least the first structural member is
   a timber member.
20           8.    The method of any one of claims 1-7 wherein an end portion of the
   second structural member is received within the receiving portion of the connector.
             9.    The method of any one of claims 1-8 wherein an offset is provided
   between a base of the receiving channel and the lip, the offset being equal to a
   desired offset between the alignment surface of the first structural member and a
25 corresponding surface of the second structural member which, when placed in the
   receiving channel, rests on the base of the receiving channel.
             10.   The method of claim 9 wherein the offset is zero, such that when the
   first and second structural members are connected by the connector the at least a
   directly adjacent portion of the alignment surface of the first structural member and
30 the corresponding surface of the second structural member which rests on/is
   adjacent to the base of the receiving channel are substantially aligned.
             11.   The method of any one of claims 1-10 wherein the pivoting and/or
   movement of the connector in step c) to tackingly engage the projections with the
   first structural member further comprises the step of pressing or hammering the
35 projections into said tacking engagement with the first structural member.
                                               32

             12.   A connector for connecting a first and second timber structural
   members together, the connector being for mounting to a mounting face of the first
   structural member and for receiving at least a portion of the second structural
   member,
 5          wherein the connector comprises a lip portion and an at least one
   projection such that in use when the lip is placed into an underlapping association
   with an alignment surface of the first structural member at least one of
            a) a pivoting of the connector about the lip at the underlapping association
                 of the lip with the alignment surface and
10          b) a movement of the connector towards the first structural member and
                 parallel with its alignment surface
            forces the at least one projection into tacking engagement with the first
   structural member so as to cause the connector to be tacked in place, holding the
   connector in its placed orientation relative to the first structural member.
15           13.   The connector of claim 12 wherein the connector comprises a base
   plate and two side plates upwardly extending from the base plate to define a
   receiving channel to receive an end portion of the second structural member, and
   at least one mounting flange extending from a respective one of said base plate
   and one of said two side plates, said mounting flange to abut a surface of the first
20 structural member and be secured thereto by at least one penetrative fastener.
             14.   The connector of claim 13 wherein at least one mounting flange
   presents the at least one projection projecting from the mounting flange.
             15.   The connector of any one of claims 12-14 wherein the tacking
   engagement is associated with the penetration of the first structural member by the
25 at least one projection such that the mounting flange abuts a surface of the first
   structural member.
             16.   The connector of any one of claims 12-15 wherein the tacking
   engagement of the connector with the first structural member is assisted by
   pressing by hand or hammer.
30           17.   The connector of any one of claims 12-16 wherein the lip portion and
   at least one projection are provided at or towards two respective ends of the
   connector.
             18.   The connector of any one of claims 12-17 wherein the connector is a
   joist hangar, the first structural member is a beam and the second structural
35 member is a joist.
             19.   The connector of claim 12 wherein the receiving channel comprises at
   least an alignment zone characterized by a zone of increasing length from a mouth
                                               33

   of the channel to a base of the channel, wherein the length of the channel is
   perpendicular to the direction between the mouth and base of the channel, and in
   use during the receiving of a second structural member within the alignment zone
   of the amount of the second structural member along an elongate direction
 5 received by the channel progressively increases.
            20.  The connector of any one of claims 12-19 wherein, in use, the
   tacking engagement of the connector to the first structural member is such that the
   connector may support its own weight on the mounting face of the first structural
   member.
10
                                            34

                                       <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2721><U+270E>
                             <U+2721><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                                                  <U+2721><U+261B>
                   <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                  <U+2721><U+261E>
              <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                   <U+2721><U+270D>
              <U+2721><U+261E>
                                             <U+2721><U+2721>
                                  <U+2721><U+270D>
                        <U+2721><U+270C>
                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>

                                  <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2721>
                                             <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                       <U+2721><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+261B>
                   <U+2701>
                   <U+2721>
                                     <U+2721>   <U+2701>
                       <U+2721><U+270C>                         <U+2721><U+261B>
                             <U+2721><U+270F>
                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>

                     <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                   <U+2721><U+2701>
                                     <U+2721><U+261B>
                           <U+2721><U+270D>
                                <U+2721><U+270C>        <U+2721>
              <U+270D>
                  <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>

                                              <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                         <U+270D><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>             <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                              <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                              <U+2721><U+261E>
                                              <U+2721><U+261B>
                               <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                    <U+2721><U+270F>             <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                                        <U+2721><U+261B>
                          <U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2704>
                                                                        <U+2721><U+261E>
                                                    <U+2721><U+2721>

                                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                 <U+271F><U+2720>
                                                                      <U+2721><U+261B>
                                            <U+271F><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                 <U+2721><U+2721>
                             <U+271F><U+2721>
                                                                      <U+271F><U+261B>
                   <U+271F><U+271F>
                                                            <U+2721><U+271F>
                                                                      <U+271F><U+261B>
                        <U+271F><U+2721>
                                                                      <U+271F><U+261E>
                                       <U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2702><U+2704>                                                 <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+271E>                                  <U+271F><U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                 <U+271F><U+2720>

                                 <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                   <U+2721>
                       <U+2721><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+2721><U+261E>    <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
              <U+2721><U+2701>
                            <U+2721><U+2701>
                                        <U+2721><U+261B>
                       <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>

                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>                         <U+2721><U+270E>                    <U+2721><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>
                          <U+2721><U+270C>
                                               <U+2721><U+2721>
                                    <U+2721><U+2704>               <U+2721><U+2704>
                               <U+2721><U+270E>                              <U+2721><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2704>
                          <U+2721><U+270C>
                                               <U+2721><U+2721>
                                         <U+2721><U+270E>         <U+2721><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>
                               <U+2721><U+270C>
                                               <U+2721><U+2721>

                                           <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                       <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                             <U+2721><U+270D>
                     <U+2721><U+270D>                               <U+2721><U+270E>
                                      <U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                                 <U+2721><U+261B>
                                     <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                 <U+2721><U+261B>                         <U+2721><U+270E>
                      <U+2721><U+270E>
                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>     <U+2702>                          <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>     <U+2704>
                                      <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                  <U+2721><U+270E>
                           <U+2721><U+270E>                                <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                  <U+2721><U+2721>
                                    <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
                    <U+2721><U+270C>
<removed-date>
                                                                            <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                                                               <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2721><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2721><U+270E>      <U+270D><U+270F>                               <U+261B><U+261B>
                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>   <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2721><U+261B>
                                   <U+2721><U+270F>                                  <U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+2721><U+261B>                                        <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>
               <U+2721><U+270C>                            <U+2721><U+2721>
                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701>  <U+2704>
               <U+2721><U+270E>                                            <U+2721><U+270C>                          <U+2721><U+261E>
                                             <U+270D><U+270F>                                                     <U+2721><U+270E>
                         <U+2721><U+261E>
                                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2721><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+270C>                    <U+2721><U+270D>
                              <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2721><U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2721><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
               <U+270D><U+270F>                                                                <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2721><U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2701>
                                   <U+2721><U+2721>
                                                        <U+2721><U+270E>
                         <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                       <U+2721><U+270F>
                    <U+2721><U+261E>                                                                 <U+2721><U+270E>
               <U+270D><U+270F>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2701>
                                                             <U+2721><U+270E>
                              <U+2721><U+2721>
                   <U+2721><U+270C>                         <U+2721><U+270D>
                                                                            <U+2721><U+270F>
                                    <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                                                       <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                                                 <U+2721><U+261E>
                   <U+270D><U+270F>
                                                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702>
                         <U+2721><U+2721>                        <U+2721><U+270D>

                                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+270E>                         <U+2721><U+270E>                         <U+2721><U+270E>
                                    <U+2721><U+270C>                         <U+2721><U+270C>                 <U+2721><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+261B>                         <U+261B><U+261B>                         <U+261B><U+261B>
<removed-apn>         <U+270D><U+270F>                         <U+270D><U+270F>                    <U+270D><U+270F>
                                <U+2702>
                        <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2720>                  <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2720>   <U+2704>         <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2702>
                                                                            <U+2721>
              <U+270D><U+2704>
                         <U+270D><U+270F>
                                                       <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>

                                                             <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>        <U+2721>
              <U+2721>
<removed-date>                         <U+270D><U+261E>                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2721><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+270D><U+2701>
                  <U+270D><U+2704>                                                <U+270D><U+2704>       <U+270D><U+270F>
                                                        <U+2721><U+270C>                                  <U+2721><U+270C>
                          <U+270D><U+270F>
                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>      <U+2701><U+2702>                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>      <U+2701><U+2704>
                                                              <U+2721>
                  <U+2721>                                                                    <U+261B><U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                         <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                   <U+2721><U+270C>
                                                                                                 <U+2721><U+270C>
                  <U+270D><U+2704>           <U+270D><U+270F>                             <U+270D><U+2704>                       <U+2721><U+2701>   <U+261B><U+270D>
                       <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>      <U+2701><U+2702>                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720>     <U+2701><U+2702>

