                                 ABSTRACT
        A sensing system to process at least one valuable document, the system
comprising:
        a light source to generate a light beam;
        at least one light pipe coupled to the light source, wherein the light pipe has one
or more diverting surfaces to direct the light beam at a predetermined angle of incidence
onto the valuable document;
        at least one reflective surface to receive a first portion of the light beam
transmitted through the valuable document and to reflect the first portion of the light
beam towards the valuable document;
        a light detector to receive at least a second portion of the light beam re
transmitted through the valuable document; and
        one or more diverting surfaces to direct at least the second portion of the light
beam to the light detector.

                         1/7
          0.
                C.0
                     N..
                                   CON
               IN  N1                 oo
o
       h   00
                                         C4
       CO
         C          N
                            NNL
                         N%
                                N%
                                N.
             0
                  loe
               S0
     Co6
  C0

                   SYSTEM TO PROCESS A VALUABLE DOCUMENT
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]         This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/768,739 filed February 25, 2013, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]         The present subject matter relates, in general, to a valuable document and, in
particular, to a method and a system to process the valuable document, such as a banknote,
valuable paper, security document, coupon, etc., within an electronic transaction system, such
as a currency validator, automatic teller machine, gaming machine, and vending machine.
                                             BACKGROUND
[0003]         Traditionally, valuable documents such as banknotes are printed on cotton-fiber
paper substrates, which are inherently opaque. In order to combat counterfeiting and provide
better durability, banknotes are now being developed with substrates that allow incorporation
of complex security features. Banknote security has seen a paradigm shift with the advent of
polymer substrates, which are optically transparent. When banknotes are printed on polymer
substrates, an area of substrate is left free or transparent of any background and graphics so
that an opaque material cannot be used for counterfeiting banknotes. The transparent area is
hereinafter referred to as a "transparent window". The transparent window may sometimes
extend from one edge of the note to the other.
[0004]         Typically, electronic transaction systems, such as vending machines, include
currency handling units having one or more sensors to determine both authenticity and
progress of the banknote along a transport path. The traditional sensors include a source of
light that is generally placed along the transport path such that the angle of incidence of light
                                                -I-

is normal to the surface of the banknote. The ratio of the reflected light from the banknote to
transmitted light through the banknote helps determine whether a banknote is present or not.
However, banknotes with transparent windows may not be detected by the traditional sensors
as light transmits almost completely through the banknote. As a result, a light detector
detecting transmitted light energy sees it as an absence of bank note or a trailing edge/end of a
banknote. This problem is particularly pronounced in cases where the transparent window
extends across the width of the banknote. Inaccurate detection of transparent windows leads
to miscalculation of length of the banknote, which then causes a valid banknote to be rejected
as being too short. The miscalculation of length also causes the electronic transaction system
to see two or more banknotes instead of one and the banknotes may be double counted
causing problems in, for example, recycling type applications.
[0004A]         It is desired to provide a method and a sensing system to process at least one
valuable document that alleviate one or more difficulties of the prior art, or that at least
provide a useful alternative.
                                            SUMMARY
[0004B]         In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention, there is
provided a sensing system to process at least one valuable document, the system comprising:
                a light source to generate a light beam;
                at least one light pipe coupled to the light source, wherein the light pipe has
        one or more diverting surfaces to direct the light beam at a predetermined angle of
        incidence onto the valuable document;
                at least one reflective surface to receive a first portion of the light beam
        transmitted through the valuable document and to reflect the first portion of the light
        beam towards the valuable document;
                a light detector to receive at least a second portion of the light beam re
        transmitted through the valuable document; and
                one or more diverting surfaces to direct at least the second portion of the light
        beam to the light detector.
                                                 -2-

[0004C]           In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention, there is
provided a method comprising:
                  varying an angle of incidence of a light beam onto a valuable document such
         that reflected energy off the valuable document is optimized; and
                  allowing the light beam to undergo more than two passes through the valuable
         document, wherein reflective and geometric effects due to refraction multiply with
         each pass.
[0005]         This summary is provided to introduce concepts related to a system and method
to process valuable documents, such as banknotes and checks. The concepts are further
described below in the detailed description, drawings and claims. This summary is not
intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use
in determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.
[0006]         Computer program products are also described that comprise non-transitory
computer readable media storing instructions, which when executed by at least one data
processors of one or more computing systems, causes at least one data processor to perform
operations herein. Similarly, computer systems are also described that may include one or
more data processors and a memory coupled to the one or more data processors. The memory
may temporarily or permanently store instructions that cause at least one processor to perform
one or more of the operations described herein. In addition, methods can be implemented by
one or more data processors either within a single computing system or distributed among two
or more computing systems.
[0007]         A sensing system to process at least one valuable document is described herein.
In one implementation, the system includes a light source to generate a light beam. The
system also includes at least one light pipe having one or more diverting surfaces to direct the
light beam at a predetermined angle of incidence onto the valuable document. At least one
reflective surface, to receive a first portion of the light beam transmitted through the valuable
document and to reflect the first portion of the light beam towards the valuable document, is
also included. A light detector is configured to receive at least a second portion of the light
beam transmitted through the valuable document. Intensity of the second portion of the light
                                                 -3-

beam is based at least on the angle of incidence. The angle of incidence, number of passes,
refractive effects, etc., influence extinction ratios. Further, the reflective surface is angled
such that the first portion of the light beam reflecting from the reflective surface reflects off
substantially in a direction towards the valuable document.
[0008]        A light detector is configured to receive at least the portion of the light beam
transmitted through the valuable document. At least one of the diverting surfaces is angled
between 0 and about 90 degrees.
[0009]        The sensing system can further include at least one controller configured to vary
the angle of incidence by varying an angle of the diverting surface. The sensing system can be
implemented in one of a vending machine, an automatic teller machine, a gaming machine, a
currency validator, and a bill validator, or any other device configured to accept valuable
documents in exchange for product or service. Examples of the valuable document include,
but are not limited to, a coupon, a check, a security document, a banknote, and a voucher,
where the valuable document may have one or more transparent windows. The valuable
document can be a polymer banknote.
[00010]         The light detector is coupled to a controller, where the controller is configured
to store data of the second portion of the light beam, and compare the data of the second
portion of the light beam with a predetermined value. The controller determines presence of
the valuable document based at least on the comparison.
[00011]       In another implementation, a method to process a valuable document is
described herein. The method includes emitting a light beam from a light source onto a
valuable document, optimizing reflected energy off the valuable document by varying an
angle of incidence of the light beam, orienting a reflective surface such that a first portion of
the light beam through the valuable document is reflected towards the valuable document, and
obtaining a second portion of the light beam re-transmitted through the valuable document.
                                                -4-

The second portion of the light beam is a part of the first portion of the light beam. The
method can further include storing the intensity data of the transmitted light beam, and
comparing the aforementioned intensity data with a predetermined value. A differentiation
between a presence of the valuable document and an absence of the valuable document can
also be made based at least on the comparison. Additionally or optionally, differentiation
between the valuable document and other types of documents can also be made based at least
on the comparison. The method can be implemented in one of a vending machine, an
automatic teller machine, a gaming machine, a currency validator, a pay phone, a computer,
and a hand-held device, or any other device configured to accept valuable documents in
exchange for goods or services.
[00012]        In one implementation, the transmitted light beam is made to undergo one or
more passes (i.e. transmissions) through the valuable document before being read by a light
detector.
[00013]        In another implementation, a method to detect transparent windows in valuable
documents includes varying an angle of incidence of a light beam onto a valuable document such
that reflected energy off the valuable banknote is optimized. The method further includes allowing
the light beam to undergo one or more passes through the valuable document, where reflective
and geometric effects due to refraction multiply with each pass. The presence of the valuable
document is determined based on transmitted energy received after the one or more passes
through the light beam. Further, a system implementing the method above is also described.
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00014]        Some embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most
digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first
appears. The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features and
components. For simplicity and clarity of illustration, elements in the figures are not
necessarily to scale.
                                                 -5-

[00015]       Fig. I illustrates an exemplary         sensing system for processing valuable
documents, in accordance with the present subject matter.
[00016]       Fig. 2 illustrates an exemplary sensing system having a 45 degree angle of
incidence and supporting two passes, in accordance with the present subject matter.
[00017]       Fig. 3 illustrates an exemplary sensing system having a 45 degree angle of
incidence and supporting four passes, in accordance with the present subject matter.
[00018]       Fig. 4 illustrates a relationship between angle of incidence of light and reflection
coefficient.
[00019]       Fig. 5(a) illustrates that at normal incidence, a substantial amount of light
transmits through the valuable document.
[00020]        Fig. 5(b) illustrates that at about 45 degree angle of incidence, the amount of
light reflected off the valuable document increases as compared to normal incidence,
according to the present subject matter.
[00021]       Fig. 5(c) illustrates that at about 80 degree angle of incidence; a minimal amount
of light transmits through the valuable document and misses a light detector due to geometric
shift, according to the present subject matter.
[00022]       Fig. 6 an exemplary method for processing the valuable documents, in
accordance with the present subject matter.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00023]       A sensing system configured to process one or more valuable documents is
disclosed herein. The sensing system can be implemented within any electronic transaction
system, such as a vending machine, a gaming machine, an automatic teller machine, a pay
phone, etc., and in general any equipment used in retail, gaming, or banking industry.
[00024]       Examples of valuable documents include, but are not limited to, banknotes,
security papers, checks, and coupons printed on a synthetic polymer substrate, which is
optically transparent. In an example, when a banknote is printed on the polymer substrate, a
part of the substrate is printed with an opaque background. As an additional security feature,
part of the banknote is left free of any background and graphics so that an opaque material
                                                  -6-

cannot be used for producing counterfeit banknotes. The transparent area is hereinafter
referred to as "transparent window". The transparent window may extend across a part or
entire width or length of the banknote. It is within the scope of the present disclosure that
traditional type valuable documents (e.g., paper substrate documents) may be constructed to
include a transparent window as described herein.
[00025]       A valuable document, such as a banknote with transparent windows, is generally
transported within an electronic transaction system along a transport path. For example, the
banknote may be transported from a banknote receiver to recycler or bundler along the
transport path. Typically, the banknote is transported past a plurality of sensors, including
light sources for illuminating the banknote and light detectors for detection of light reflected
off or transmitted through the banknote. As a result, one or more sensor signals are generated
corresponding to measurements taken from different areas of the banknote. The sensor signals
are then processed to validate and/or track the progress of the banknote. However,
conventional sensor systems typically project light at a normal angle of incidence to the
surface of the banknote, and in the case of banknotes with transparent windows, a substantial
amount of light passes through the banknote. The sensor perceives this as an absence of a
banknote. In other words, the ratio between the light reflected off a polymer banknote surface
to the light transmitted through the polymer banknote surface is not as high as compared to
the similar ratio computed for conventional paper banknotes. This ratio is hereinafter referred
to as the extinction ratio. Such low extinction ratios lead to incorrect determination of
progress of the banknotes or any such valuable documents with transparent windows.
[00026]       To this end, the embodiments provided herein describe a system and method to
correctly differentiate valuable documents, such as banknotes with transparent windows, from
an absence of the valuable document. The embodiments are hereinafter described with
reference to banknotes with transparent windows, however other implementations are possible
as would be understood by a person skilled in the art.
[00027]        In one embodiment, a sensing system having one or more light sources and one
or more light detectors are placed along the transport path to track the progress of the
banknote. The light source is configured to emit light at predefined intervals. The at least one
light source may be used to emit light at a number of wavelengths in a short period of time to
                                              -7-

ensure high security against fraud.        At least one light detector (e.g. phototransistor or
photodiode) detects light reflected off or transmitted through the banknote. The sensing
system also includes one or more reflecting surfaces located on an opposite side of the
transport path relative to light emitted from the light source.
[00028]       In said embodiment, light from the light source passes through one or more light
pipes onto surface of the banknote. Further, the light pipes can include one or more diverting
surfaces oriented to optimize the reflection coefficient, and thereby increase the reflected
energy off the banknote. Light impinging onto the surface of the banknote is then in part
reflected off and in part transmitted through the valuable document. This is defined as one
pass through the document. After passing through the banknote, such as the transparent
windows of the banknote, the light reflects off the reflective surfaces to pass back through the
banknote again. In this manner, the light may be made to pass through the banknote a desired
number of times. At each pass, the light undergoes degradation due to reflection losses and
transmission losses until the energy of the transmitted light is read by the light detector.
Additionally, due to the geometric shift at each interface, say that of the banknote or reflective
surface, the light beam may even miss the light detector giving an impression that a banknote
is present. Thus, in this fashion, the extinction ratios of banknotes with transparent windows
are considerably increased.
[00029]       The conventional sensors would treat a banknote with transparent windows as an
absence of note but in the present subject matter, the angle of incidence of light is controlled
to optimize the reflection coefficient. At normal incidence, or in other words at zero degree
angle of incidence, the reflection coefficient for most polymer or plastic materials is about
4%. As the angle of incidence increases, the reflection coefficient increases. Thus, by varying
the angle of incidence of the incident light, the sensing system can detect the presence of a
transparent window, such as by measuring the difference in incident energy and the
reflected/transmitted energy or even extinction ratios. The pattern of the reflected or
transmitted energy can also be compared to an expected pattern for an acceptable banknote to
determine the presence of the banknote with transparent windows, and in some cases, even
the validity of the banknote with transparent windows. Further, the angle of incidence is
controlled such that no total internal reflection occurs within the valuable document. The
                                                -8-

transmitted energy through the banknote decreases as the angle of incidence increases. The
transmitted energy also undergoes geometric shift due to refraction. The geometric shift in
transmitted energy, too, increases as the angle of incidence increases.
[00030]        In another implementation, the sensing system includes a controller configured
to orient at least one of the light source and diverting surfaces within the light pipes, based at
least on a desired value of extinction ratios. By varying the orientation of the light source and
light pipes, the angle of incidence of light from the light source onto the surface of the
banknote varies between 0 degree to about 90 degrees. This, in turn, helps to optimize the
reflected energy off the banknote. In an example, the selection of the angle of incidence is
based at least on software and hardware limitations and the reflection coefficient of the
banknote.
[00031]        It will be appreciated that the embodiments described herein can be used in a
standalone unit, or for incorporation into a conventional electronic transaction system, such as
an ATM, which requires a sensor for valuable documents. Additional sensing units may be
implemented to determine authenticity of the banknote as will be understood by a person
skilled in the art.
[00032]        While aspects of the described processing of valuable documents can be
implemented in any number of different systems, environments, and/or configurations, the
embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system(s). The
descriptions and details of well-known components are omitted for simplicity of the
description. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the words during, while, and
when as used herein are not exact terms that mean an action takes place instantly upon an
initiating action but that there may be some small but reasonable delay, such as a propagation
delay, between the initial action, and the reaction that is initiated by the initial action.
[00033]        Fig. 1 illustrates a sensing system 100 having a plurality of light pipes 102,
according to an implementation of the present subject matter. The sensing system 100 can be
implemented within an automatic transaction machine (ATM), a gaming machine, a kiosk, a
bill acceptor, or a vending machine. In one implementation, sensing system 100 can be any
hardware or software or any combination thereof, which may be configured to process one or
more valuable documents 104, such as coupons, checks, security documents, banknotes,
                                                -9-

vouchers, and the like having one or more transparent windows 105. The processing of
valuable document 104 includes, but is not limited to, determination of whether the valuable
document 104 is present and in some implementations, a further determination of whether the
valuable document 104 includes at least one transparent window 105 on an otherwise opaque
material. The transparent window 105 may extend from one end of the banknote 104 to other.
For clarity and better understanding, the subject matter is described with reference to
banknotes 104 with transparent windows 105, such as polymer banknotes from Canada,
Mexico, Australia, etc.; however, the description can be extended to different kinds of
valuable documents 104 as will be understood by a person skilled in the art. The banknotes
104 with transparent windows 105 are hereinafter interchangeably referred to as banknotes
104, transparent banknotes 104 or polymer banknotes 104.
[00034]        In one embodiment, the sensing system 100 includes a plurality of light pipes
102-1, 102-2,...,102-N, collectively referred to as light pipe(s) 102., and at least one light
source 106, such as a light emitting diode (LED). Each of the light pipes 102 is a waveguide
having a first end and a second end. In one embodiment, the first and/or second ends include
one or more diverting surfaces 108-1, 108-2, etc., (collectively referred to as diverting
surfaces 108) to orient the incoming light at a desired angle of incidence. In an example, the
angle of incidence is about 45 degrees. For the sake of clarity, the first end of the waveguide
is defined as the end which receives the light (alternatively referred to as light beam) whereas
the second end is the end from where the light exits or is transmitted. For example, the first
end of the first light pipe 102-1 receives light from the light source 106 and the second end of
first light pipe 102-1 includes diverting surfaces 108-1 and 108-2 to orient the exiting light at
an angle of about 45 degrees. Further, the first end of the second light pipe 102-2 includes
diverting surface 108-3 to orient the incoming light beam at an angle of about 45 degrees
(also seen in Figs. 2 and 3). Additionally, the second end of the light pipe 102-2 includes the
diverting surface 108-4 to orient the outgoing light beam at the diverting angle. The first end
of the third light pipe 102-3 includes the diverting surface 108-5 (also shown in Fig. 3) and
108-6 to orient the incoming light at the diverting angle and the second end of the third light
pipe 102-3 then transmits the light to a light detector 110, such as a phototransistor, a
photodiode, or any other light sensing device known in the art. It will be understood that the
                                                -10-

quantity of light pipes 102, light sources 106, and light detectors 110 may vary based on the
requirement.
[00035]       In one example implementation, sensing system 100 also includes one or more
reflecting surfaces 112, such as reflecting surfaces 112-1 and 112-2. Examples of reflective
surfaces 112 and light pipes 102 include mirrors, prismatic structures, light guides with
deflecting surfaces, etc.
[00036]       In one implementation, light source 106 and light detector 110 are on opposite
sides of the banknote thus forming a cross channel sensor. Further, the banknote 104 may be
stationary, and the light source 106 and the light detector 110 may move. In another
implementation, light source 106 and light detectors 110 are on the same side of the banknote
 104 while the reflective surfaces 112 are on the opposite side of the banknote 104. The
reflecting surfaces 112 reflect the light transmitted though the banknote 104 towards the light
pipes 102. It will be understood that other implementations are also possible. Further, it will
be understood that the light beam from the light source 106 undergoes other losses, such as
absorption losses at the banknote 104 surface, however such losses are negligible in light of
losses due to reflection, transmission, etc. The operational details of the sensing system 100
are explained in the following paragraphs.
[00037]       In one implementation, the banknote 104 is accepted and transported along the
transport path 114. The sensing system 100 is provided along the transport path 114 to track
the progress of the banknote 104 from the entry point to the various units, such as recyclers,
storage, dispenser, etc. In one implementation, when it is determined that a banknote 104 is
accepted, light source 106 emits a light beam A to illuminate the banknote 104 with at least
one particular wavelength. Light source 106 emits light beam A at predefined time intervals to
detect the progress of banknote 104. Light beam A first passes through light pipe 102-1. Light
beam A gets reflected at a diverting angle defined by the diverting surface 108-1. Light beam
A then strikes banknote 104 at the angle of incidence defined by the diverting surface 108-2 of
the light pipe 102-1. A part of light beam A gets reflected off the surface of banknote 104 as
light beam B, while a first portion of light beam A, i.e. as A,, gets transmitted through
banknote 104 and is focused onto a reflective surface 112-1. It should be noted that the first
portion of the beam, i.e., light beam A,, which gets transmitted through banknote 104 suffers
                                               -11-

geometrical phase shift due to refraction. Also, the intensity of light beam A that gets
transmitted, i.e. light beam A1 , depends in part on the angle of incidence of the irradiated light
beam.
[00038]       Transmitted light beam A, reflects off the reflective surface 112-1 towards
banknote 104. Again, a part of transmitted light beam A, gets reflected off surface of banknote
104 as B1 , while a part of light beam A, (in other words, a second portion of the light beam A)
passes through banknote 104 into light pipe 102-2 as A 2 in a second pass. At this stage, a light
detector similar to light detector 110 can be placed to read light beam A 2. In other words, if a
dual pass reading is desired, light detector 110 can be placed at the second end of the light
pipe 102-2. However, if a four pass reading is desired, light beam A2 is made to further pass
through the banknote 104 a couple more times as described below.
[00039]       In a quad pass sensing system 100, light beam A2 passes through light pipe 102-2
and gets re-oriented due to diverting surfaces 108-3 and 108-4. Accordingly, light beam A2
gets re-directed onto the surface of the banknote 104. Again a portion of light beam A 2 gets
reflected off banknote 104 as light beam B2 and a third portion of light beam A gets
transmitted through banknote 104 as light beam A3 . Light beam A3 too experiences geometric
shift due to refraction. Transmitted light beam A 3 bounces off reflecting surface 112-2 onto
banknote 104. The part of light beam A3 that gets transmitted is hereinafter referred to as A 4
and the reflected portion is referred to as light beam B4 . Light beam A 4 also suffers geometric
shift due to refraction as it passes through banknote 104 towards the first end of light pipe
102-3. Diverting surfaces 108-5 and 108-6 in light pipe 102-3 orient the light towards the
second end of the light pipe 102-3 where the light detector 110 is placed.
[00040]       In one implementation, light detector 110 detects the remaining light beam A 4 . A
controller 116 coupled to the light detector 110 then calculates the intensity of light of light
beam A 4 . Due to multiple passes through light pipes 102 and losses due to reflection, light
beam A 4 received by light detector 110 undergoes degradation to a level where it can be
differentiated from light detector 110 output when banknote 104 is absent. Also, due to
geometric shifts as a result of refraction, light beam A 4 may even miss light detector 110 at
high angles of incidence, giving the impression that banknote 104 is present.
                                                -12-

[00041]        Also, controller 116 pre-computes the intensity of light without banknote 104
present and stores it as an absence threshold. Controller 116 compares absence threshold with
the intensity of light of light beam A 4 to determine whether banknote 104, such as a polymer
banknote, is present or not. Conventionally, for polymer notes, the intensity of the light beam
through transparent windows 105 would be approximately equal to the absence threshold
indicating absence of note. Such an incorrect determination is more prominent with polymer
notes. However, by varying angle of incidence, reflection is optimized and extinction ratios
are controlled so that a polymer banknote can be differentiated from an "absence of note"
scenario.
[00042]        In an implementation, the intensity of light beam obtained through the banknote,
such as a paper banknote, is also pre-computed and stored as presence threshold. If the light
intensity is less than the absence threshold, it is ascertained that banknote 104 is present. Due
to multiple passes through light pipes 102, losses due to reflection, and geometric shifts due to
refraction, the light beam transmitted through the transparent banknotes 104 undergoes
degradation to a point where the light intensity is in between the absence threshold and
presence threshold. Through additional statistical analysis of intensity data, specific attributes
of banknote 104 can be further calculated. For example, it can be determined whether
banknote 104 is taped, has windows, or holes, etc.
[00043]        In another example embodiment, the movement of light source 106 and light
pipes 102 can be controlled via the controller 116. Controller 116 adjusts the orientation of
light pipes 102, which in turn controls the angle of incidence of light onto reflective surfaces
 112 and banknote 104.
[00044]        The reflected energy may be made to go through multiple passes via one or more
light pipes 102 or wave guides. Each pass includes orienting the angle of incidence of light at
an angle to optimize the reflected energy off banknote 104. It will be noted that the refractive
and reflective effects tend to multiple, as number of passes increases. Fig. 2 shows one such
arrangement with two light pipes, dual pass, and about 45 degree angle of incidence. Fig. 3
shows sensing system 100 with three light pipes, four passes, and about 45 degree angle of
incidence, according to an embodiment of the present subject matter.
                                                -13-

[00045]         As an example, a lambertian source is simulated to imitate a light emitting
diode 106 in TRACEPRO@. The lambertian source is simulated to provide 1 Watt total
output, 940nm, 200000 rays. The following data is obtained by the light detector 110
Optical Configuration                        Air              Transparent      Extinction Ratio
                                                              Banknote
                                                 0.01731         0.01606              1.08
Single pass, 0 degree angle of incidence
                                                 0.00036         0.00035              1.02
Dual pass, 0 degree angle of incidence
                                                 0.00847         0.00728              1.16
Dual pass, 45 degree angle of incidence
                                                 0.00239         0.00148              1.61
Quad pass, 45 degree angle of incidence
                                                 0.00076         0.00038              1.98
Quad pass, 60 degree angle of incidence
As seen in table above, about 45 degree angle of incidence is a good compromise between
overall signals levels and extinction ratio.
[00046]       Fig. 4 illustrates a graph 400 illustrating the variation between the angle of
incidence of light, for example from light source 106, and the reflection coefficient for
polypropylene, a material commonly used for making polymer notes. Polypropylene has a
reflective index of 1.49. The curve 402 is for s-polarized light, curve 404 is for p-polarized
light, and curve 406 is for un-polarized light. As shown in Fig. 4, the reflection coefficient
increases as the angle of incidence increases. Thus, to maximize the reflected energy off
banknote 104, the angle of incidence is increased. The present subject matter is explained
with angle of incidence to be about 45 degrees, however, higher angles of incidence are also
possible as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art.
[00047]         Figs. 5(a), 5(b), and 5(c) are exemplary illustrations of the change in reflected
energy and transmitted energy with a change in the angle of incidence.
                                                -14-

[00048]          Fig. 5(a) shows that at zero degree angle of incidence, there is a small
reflection 502 (about 8%) every time light passes through an interface, while the rest gets
transmitted 504.
[00049]          Fig. 5(b) shows that at 45 degree of angle of incidence, the reflections off the
first and the second interfaces becomes more apparent as the angle of incidence increases.
This is shown by light path 506 as 10% of the light gets reflected. Additionally, there is a
small shift in the transmitted light 508 due to refraction. This is further illustrated in the table
below.
[00050]         Fig. 5(c) shows that at about an 85 degree angle of incidence, the reflection
coefficient of banknote 104 determines, in part, the amount of light that is transmitted. In a
ideal theoretical case, about 0% of the original incident beam reaches light detector 110, when
a transparent banknote 104 is present due to large refraction coefficient and refraction shift,
and thus in effect transmitted light 508 misses light detector 110 giving the impression that
banknote 104 is present. This works particularly well for banknotes 104 having transparent
windows 105 which would otherwise be treated as absence of note by a conventional sensor.
[00051]         Fig. 6 illustrates an exemplary method 600 for processing valuable documents,
such as banknotes 104 with transparent windows 105, in accordance with an example
embodiment of the present subject matter. Method 600 is described in the context of
banknotes 104; however, method 600 may be extended to cover other kinds of items of value.
Herein, some embodiments are also intended to cover program storage devices, for example,
digital data storage media, which are machine or computer readable and encode machine
executable or computer-executable programs of instructions, wherein said instructions
perform some or all of the steps of the described method. The program storage devices may
be, for example, digital memories, magnetic storage media such as a magnetic disks and
magnetic tapes, hard drives, or optically readable digital data storage media.
[00052]          The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a
limitation, and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to
implement the method, or an alternative method. Additionally, individual blocks may be
deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter
                                               -15-

described herein. Furthermore, the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware,
software, firmware, or combination thereof.
[00053]         At block 602, a light beam is emitted from a light source onto a valuable
document. In an example, light source 106 generates a light beam onto a valuable document,
such as banknote 104 with one or more transparent windows 105. In one implementation, the
light beam passes through one or more light pipes 102. Light pipes 102 have one or more
diverting surfaces 108 to direct the light in the desired direction and angle of incidence.
[00054]         At block 604, angle of incidence of the light beam is varied such that the
reflected energy off the valuable document is optimized. In one implementation, the angle of
incidence of light can be varied between 0 and approximately 90 degrees to optimize the
reflected energy off the banknote 104. Such considerations can be made at the design stage by
determining the desired amount of reflected energy and accordingly, selecting type and
placement of diverting surfaces 108. Alternatively, the real-time adjustments can be made via
a controller 116.
[00055]         At block 606, a reflecting surface is oriented such that the transmitted light
beam through the valuable document is reflected by the reflecting surface and towards the
document. Position of reflective surfaces 112 can be either selected during the design or
during operation via a controller 116.
[00056]         At block 608, the transmitted light beam through the valuable document is
received. In one implementation, one or more light detectors 110 are placed either on the
same side of banknote 104 as light source 106 or on the opposite side. Light detectors 110 are
positioned to receive light transmitted through banknote 104. In one example, light detector
 110 may be coupled to another light pipe, such as light pipe 102-3. Controller 116 coupled to
the light detector 110 measures the transmitted light beam and stores the light intensity and
other related parameters.
[00057]         At block 610, the transmitted          light beam energy is compared        with
predetermined value. In one example implementation, controller 116 compares the light beam
received by light detector 110 with predetermined values or patterns. The values correspond
to an absence of banknote, and presence of banknotes, such as paper banknotes.
                                                -16-

[00058]       At block 612, presence of the valuable document 104 is ascertained based at
least on the comparison at block 610. If the light intensity is less than the absence value, it is
ascertained that banknote 104 is present. Due to multiple passes through light pipes 102,
losses due to reflection, and geometric shifts due to refraction, the light beam through
banknotes 104 undergoes degradation to a point where the light intensity is in between the
absence and presence value. Through additional statistical analysis of intensity data, specific
attributes of banknote 104 can be further calculated. For example, it can be determined
whether banknote 104 is taped, has windows, or holes, etc.
[00059]         Various implementations of the subject matter described herein may be
realized in digital electronic circuitry, integrated circuitry, specially designed ASICs
(application specific integrated circuits), computer hardware, firmware, software, and/or
combinations thereof. These various implementations may include implementation in one or
more computer programs that are executable and/or interpretable on a programmable system
including at least one programmable processor, which may be special or general purpose,
coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions to, a
storage system, at least one input device, and at least one output device.
[00060]         These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software
applications or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor, and may be
implemented in a high-level procedural and/or object-oriented programming language, and/or
in assembly/machine language. As used herein, the term "machine-readable medium" refers
to any computer program product, apparatus and/or device (e.g., magnetic discs, optical disks,
memory, Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs)) used to provide machine instructions and/or
data to a programmable processor, including a machine-readable medium that receives
machine instructions as a machine-readable signal. The term "machine-readable signal" refers
to any signal used to provide machine instructions and/or data to a programmable processor.
[00061]         Although embodiments for a system to process valuable documents have been
described in language specific to structural features and/or methods, it is to be understood that
the invention is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather,
the specific features and methods are disclosed as exemplary embodiments for the system to
process valuable documents.
                                               -17-

[00062]         Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[00063]         The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                -18-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A sensing system to process at least one valuable document, the system comprising:
             a light source to generate a light beam;
             at least one light pipe coupled to the light source, wherein the light pipe has
     one or more diverting surfaces to direct the light beam at a predetermined angle of
     incidence onto the valuable document;
             at least one reflective surface to receive a first portion of the light beam
     transmitted through the valuable document and to reflect the first portion of the light
     beam towards the valuable document;
             a light detector to receive at least a second portion of the light beam re
     transmitted through the valuable document; and
             one or more diverting surfaces to direct at least the second portion of the light
     beam to the light detector.
  2. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the diverting
     surfaces are angled between 0 and about 90 degrees.
  3. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein intensity of the second portion of
     the light beam is based at least on the angle of incidence.
  4. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the reflective surface is angled
     such that the first portion of light beam reflecting from the reflective surface reflects
     off substantially in a direction towards the valuable document.
  5. The sensing system as claimed in claim I further comprising at least one controller
     configured to vary the angle of incidence by varying an angle of the diverting surface.
  6. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the angle of
     incidence, number of passes, and an amount of refraction determines an extinction
     ratio.
                                             -19-

7. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the valuable document is at least
    one of a coupon, a check, a security document, a banknote, and a voucher, and
    wherein the valuable document has one or more transparent windows.
8. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the valuable document is a polymer
    banknote.
9. The sensing system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the light detector is coupled to the
    controller, and wherein the controller is configured to:
             store data of the second portion of the light beam received by the light
    detector; and
             compare the data of the second portion of the light beam with a predetermined
    value.
10. The sensing system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the controller determines presence
    of the valuable document based at least on the comparison.
11. The sensing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sensing system is implemented
    in one of a vending machine, an automatic teller machine, a gaming machine, a
    currency validator, and a bill validator.
12. A method comprising:
             varying an angle of incidence of a light beam onto a valuable document such
    that reflected energy off the valuable document is optimized; and
             allowing the light beam to undergo more than two passes through the valuable
    document, wherein reflective and geometric effects due to refraction multiply with
    each pass.
13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein presence of the valuable document is
    determined based on transmitted energy received after the more than two passes
    through the valuable document.
14. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein allowing the light beam to undergo more
    than two passes through the valuable document includes:
                                            -20-

        allowing a first portion of the light beam to undergo a second pass through the
valuable document by reflecting off a reflective surface; and
        allowing a second portion of the light beam to undergo a third pass through the
valuable document by reflecting off of one or more diverting surfaces,
        wherein the second portion of the light beam is a part of the first portion of the
light beam.
                                        -21-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
