                                          ABSTRACT
                                   Well Bore Control System
 5 The invention relates to a well bore control apparatus, system and method for sealing a
   well bore. The invention relates to a well bore control apparatus comprising a housing
   having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a throughbore for
   receiving a tubular, a first tapered gate and a tapered second gate located within the
   housing, the first and second gates being adapted to engage with the guide element. In
10 use the first and second gates are moveable along the path defined by the guide
   element in a direction substantially transverse to the throughbore between an open
   position of the througbore and a closed position of the throughbore. The well bore
   control apparatus comprises a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in
   the closed position to seal the throughbore. The well bore control apparatus may
15 include a second seal seat. The second seal seat may be adapted for forming a
   second seal with the second gate in the closed position to seal the throughbore.

                                                  1
                                   Well Bore Control System
   The present invention relates to a well bore control system for sealing a well bore and
   particularly, but not exclusively, for sealing a well bore through which a tubular such as
 5 a workover or drilling conduit or intervention tool passes.
   The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   2014279794 which is a national phase application from International Application No.
   PCT/GB2014/051842, having an application date of 16 June 2014, and claiming priority
10 from Great Britain Patent Application No. 1310613.3.          The full disclosure of these
   applications is incorporated herein by reference.
   In the oil and gas industry, production or exploration wells are provided with one or
   more well bore control devices, such as a blow out preventer or riser control device for
15 sealing the well bore in the event of an emergency in order to protect personnel and
   the environment.
   Most well bore control devices are known as blow out preventers (BOPs) and include
   various sets of rams. There are three basic types; pipe rams for closing around a pipe
20 or tubular passing through the well bore control device, blind rams for sealing the well
   bore in the absence of a tubular passing through the device and shear rams for cutting
   through any tubular present in the well bore. All sets of rams are mounted
   perpendicular to the well bore, which is vertically orientated. In the event of a blow out
   from an over pressure situation in the well, the shear rams can be activated to sever a
25 tubular disposed in the well bore and passing through the well bore control device and
   so seal the well bore and prevent escape of well fluids. Shear rams are actuated to
   move in a horizontal plane and are driven by in line pistons. Most existing BOPs and
   well bore control devices have a number of drawbacks, for example, sealing is
   generally achieved using elastomeric seals and these seals can be limited with more
30 aggressive wells with high temperature and high pressure fluid requiring containment.
   In addition, the existing structure of inline pistons creates a very large and heavy
   structure which can be difficult to manoeuvre and expensive to manufacture.
   Improved sealing of a well bore can be achieved by using valves to seal the
35 throughbore, but most available valves, such as ball valves with a hardened cutting

                                                    2
   edge, can only cut through a very limited range of tubulars or conduits and generally
   most of these are a relatively small diameter 2 to 3 inches, such as coil tubing.
   UK patent GB2454850B discloses an improved well bore control valve which is more
 5 compact than traditional BOPs in which cutting gates and actuators are arranged in
   parallel to reduce the overall length of the device. Operation of the actuators pulls
   cutting blades and gates across the throughbore in opposite directions to provide a
   shear force to cut tubulars in the well bore and subsequently the gates seal the well
   and engage two separate seals to provide independent metal to metal seals.
10
   It is desirable to provide further modifications to the aforementioned well bore control
   device to provide further enhancements in sealing, seal maintenance and replacement
   and general device maintenance.
15 According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a well bore control
   apparatus comprising:
            a housing having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a
   throughbore for receiving a tubular;
            a first tapered gate and a tapered second gate located within the housing, the
20 first and second gates being adapted to engage with the guide element, wherein in use
   the first and second gates are moveable along the path defined by the guide element in
   a direction substantially transverse to the throughbore between an open position of the
   througbore and a closed position of the throughbore; and
            a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in the closed position to
25 seal the throughbore.
   The well bore control apparatus may include a second seal seat. The second seal seat
   may be adapted for forming a second seal with the second gate in the closed position
   to seal the throughbore.
30
   The first and/or second seal may minimise or prevent flow of fluids, such as well bore
   fluids, through the throughbore.
   The guide element may be arranged, in use, to actuate the first and/or second gate into
35 sealing engagement with the first respective first and/or second seal seat in the closed

                                                 3
   position. For example, in the closed position the first and/or second gate may abut the
   respective first and/or second seal seats to form the first and/or second seals. By
   arranging the guide element so as to actuate the first and/or second gate into sealing
   engagement with the respective first and/or second seal seat, the throughbore may be
 5 sealed when either the first or the second gate is in the closed position. Alternatively or
   additionally, the throughbore may be sealed when both the first and second gates are
   in the closed position.
10 The guide element may cause displacement of the first and/or second gate, in a
   direction perpendicular to the substantially transverse movement of the first and/or
   second gate, when the first and/or second gate are moved from the open position to
   the closed position. The displacement of the first and/or second gate caused by the
   guide element may be in a direction parallel to the throughbore. The displacement of
15 the first and/or second gate may create a deflection of material within the respective
   first and/or second seal seat, which may energise the first and/or second seal.
   The guide element may actuate the first and second gates so that the first and second
   gates provide the first and second seal independently from each other in the closed
20 position. By arranging the first and second gates to independently seal the throughbore
   in the closed position, a failsafe well bore control apparatus may be provided.
   A taper of the first and second gates may allow for the first and second gates to co-act
   with each other, for example, when the first and second gates are in the closed
25 position.
   The guide element may be arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse
   direction to the throughbore. The guide element may be inclined or declined with
   respect to a longitudinal axis of the housing. The guide element may be arranged
30 within the housing to define an acute angle to the longitudinal axis of the housing.
   In some embodiment, the guide element may have a protrusion, recess and/or groove,
   e.g. an elongated protrusion, recess and/or groove. The protrusion, recess and/or
   groove may be arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse direction to the
35 throughbore. In other examples, the guide element may have a plurality of protrusions,

                                               4
   recesses and/or grooves, e.g. elongated protrusions, recesses and/or grooves. The
   plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves may be arranged in the housing in a
   substantially transverse direction to the throughbore. Each protrusion, recess and/or
   groove of the plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves may be arranged
 5 parallel to one another.
   The housing may include one or more guide elements. In some embodiment, the
   housing may comprise a first and a second guide element. The first and second guide
   elements may be provided in the housing so as to oppose one another. For example,
10 the first and second guide element may be provided on two opposing surfaces within
   the housing.
   The first and/or second gate may be adapted to engage with the guide element. The
   first and/or second gate may include an engagement element. The engagement
15 element may be provided on the first and/or second gate. The engagement element
   may be arranged for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the guide element of
   the housing. In some embodiments, the engagement element may have a further
   protrusion, recess and/or groove, e.g. for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting the
   respective protrusion,     recess and/or groove     of the guide element.      In  other
20 embodiments, the engagement element may have a plurality of further protrusions,
   recesses and/or grooves, e.g. for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the
   respective plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves of the guide element. In
   some embodiments, the engagement element is in line or aligned with the taper of the
   first and/or second gate.
25
   The first and/or second gate may include one or more of engagement elements. The
   plurality of engagement elements may be arranged for mating, interoperating and/or
   co-acting with one or more guide elements of the housing. In some embodiments, the
   first and/or second gate may have a first and a second engagement element. The first
30 and second engagement elements may be provided on opposing sides or surfaces of
   the first and/or second gate. The first and second engagement elements may be
   provided on the first and/or second gate to mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with
   the respective first and second guide elements of the housing.

                                                5
   The engagement element may be arranged on the first and/or second gate along
   length or in a longitudinal direction of the first and/or second gate. The engagement
   element may be inclined or declined with respect to a longitudinal axis of the first
   and/or second gate. The engagement element may be arranged on the first and/or
 5 second gate to define an acute angle to the longitudinal axis of the first and/or second
   gate.
   In some embodiments, the acute angle defines by the engagement element may be the
   same as the acute angle defined by the guide element. In other embodiments, the
10 acute angle defines by the engagement element may differ from the acute angle
   defined by the guide element.
   The first and/or second gate may include first and/or second metal gate. The first
   and/or second seal seat may include first and/or second metal seal seat. In the closed
15 position, the first and/or second gate engage or abut the respective first and/or second
   seal seat to form a respective first and/or second metal to metal seal.
   In the closed position, the first and/or second gate and/or the first and/or second
   engagement element may engage or abut the guide element and/or the housing to
20 form a further first and/or second seal, e.g. a further first and/or second metal to metal
   seal, between the first and/or second gate and the guide element and/or housing.
   The first and/or second gate may include a respective first shearing elements and/or a
   respective second shearing element. The first and/or second shearing element may be
25 provided on an end of the respective first and/or second gate. The first and/or second
   shearing elements may be adapted for severing a tubular contained in the throughbore.
   For example, when the first and/or second gates move from the open position to the
   closed position, the first and/or second shearing element may server the tubular
   contained in the throughbore.
30
   The well bore control apparatus may include a first gate actuator and/or a second gate
   actuator. The first and/or second gate actuator may be included in the housing. The
   first and/or second gate actuators may be coupled to the respective first and/or second
   gates for moving the first and/or second gate between the open and the closed
35 position.

                                                    6
   According to a second aspect there is provided a wellbore control apparatus
   comprising:
            a housing defining a throughbore for receiving a tubular;
 5          a first gate and a second gate being movable in a direction transverse to the
   throughbore between an open position of the throughbore and a closed position of the
   throughbore, in use;
            a first actuator portion, the first actuator portion comprising a first gate actuator
   coupled to the first gate for moving the first gate between the open and the closed
10 position;
            a second actuator portion, the second actuator portion having a second gate
   actuator coupled to the second gate for moving the second gate between the open and
   the closed position; and
            a coupling arrangement for securing and/or fastening the first and second
15 actuator portions to one another.
   The first and/or second actuator portion may be part of the housing. The first and
   second actuator portions, otherwise defined as pistons, may be coaxially arranged
   within the housing. The first and second actuator portions may be provided external of
20 the throughbore.
   The coupling arrangement may be arranged to bias and/or pull the first and second
   portions to one another. The coupling arrangement may be arranged to bias and/or pull
   the first and second actuator portions to one another in a longitudinal direction of the
25 housing. The coupling arrangement may bias and/or pull the first and second actuator
   portions inwards and/or towards the throughbore. The coupling arrangement may exert
   or apply an inwardly directed force and/or load, e.g. a force and/or load towards the
   throughbore, on the first and second actuator portions.
30 In use, the first and second actuators may be at least partially actuated outwards, when
   the first and second gates move from the open to the closed position of the
   throughbore. The first and second actuators may exert or apply an outwards directed
   force and/or load, e.g. a force and/or load directed away from the troughbore, on the
   first and second actuator portions, in use. For example, when the first and second
35 actuator i.e. pistons move the respective first and second gates into the closed

                                               7
   position, an outwardly directed force and/or load may act on the first and second
   actuator portions.
   In use, a force and/or load exerted by the coupling arrangement on the first and second
 5 actuator portions may be in an opposite or reversed direction to a force and/or load
   exerted on the first and second actuator portions by the first and second actuators, e.g.
   when the first and second gates are moved to the closed position.
   In use, the coupling arrangement may provide a load path for the forces and/or loads
   acting on the first and second actuator portions and/or the housing. In use, the coupling
10 arrangement may minimise or prevent movement, such as outwards movement, of the
   first and second actuator portions, when the first and second gates are moved or
   actuated from the open position to the closed position of the throughbore by the
   respective first and second pistons, moving away from the throughbore.
15 The coupling arrangement may be provided external of the throughbore. The coupling
   arrangement may extend in a longitudinal direction of the housing, first and/or second
   actuator portions. The coupling arrangement may comprise one or more elongate
   member. Each of the one or more elongate members may comprise a first portion and
   a second portion. Each first portion of the one or more elongate member may be
20 provided on or extend from the first actuator portion. Each second portion of the one or
   more elongate member may be provided on or extend from the second actuator
   portion. Each of the first and second portions of the one or more elongate members
   may be arranged to oppose one another. In some examples, each first and second
   portion of the one or more elongate members may comprise a thread, such as a screw
25 thread or the like.
   The coupling arrangement may comprise one or more connection members. The one
   or more connection members may be adapted for connecting together the respective
   first and second portions of the one or more elongate members. The one or more
30 connection members may each have a further first and second thread, such as a screw
   thread or the like. The first and second thread of each of the one or more connection
   member may engage and/or co-act with the thread of each of the first and second
   portion of the one or more elongate members.

                                                    8
   The one or more connection members may be adapted to adjust and/or vary tension
   acting between first and/or second actuator portions. For example, the one or more
   connection members may be adapted to adjust and/or vary tension acting between
   respective first and second portions of the one or more elongate members and/or
 5 between the first and second actuator portions. For example, tension between the first
   and second portions of the one or more elongate members and/or first and second
   actuator portions may be varied, for example by moving or rotating the one or more
   connection members to move or pull the first and second actuator portions together or
   by moving or rotating the one or more connection members to release tension between
10 the first and second actuator portions.
   Features defined above in relation to the first aspect may be applied to the second
   aspect.
15 According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a well bore control
   apparatus comprising:
            a housing having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a
   throughbore for receiving a tubular;
            a first gate and a second gate located within the housing, the first and second
20 gates being adapted to engage with the guide element, wherein in use the first and
   second gates are moveable along the path defined by the guide element in a direction
   substantially transverse to the throughbore between an open                     position of the
   throughbore and a closed position of the throughbore; and
            a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in the closed position to
25 seal the throughbore.
   The well bore control apparatus may include a second seal seat. The second seal seat
   may be adapted for forming a second seal with the second gate in the closed position
   to seal the throughbore.
30
   The first and/or second seal may minimise or prevent flow of fluids, such as well bore
   fluids, through the throughbore.
   The guide element may be arranged, in use, to actuate the first and/or second gate into
35 sealing engagement with the first respective first and/or second seal seat in the closed

                                                 9
   position. For example, in the closed position the first and/or second gate may abut the
   respective first and/or second seal seats to form the first and/or second seals. By
   arranging the guide element so as to actuate the first and/or second gate into sealing
   engagement with the respective first and/or second seal seat, the throughbore may be
 5 sealed when either the first or the second gate is in the closed position. Alternatively or
   additionally, the throughbore may be sealed when both the first and second gates are
   in the closed position.
   The guide element may cause displacement of the first and/or second gate, in a
10 direction perpendicular to the substantially transverse movement of the first and/or
   second gate, when the first and/or second gate are moved from the open position to
   the closed position. The displacement of the first and/or second gate caused by the
   guide element may be in a direction parallel to the throughbore. The displacement of
   the first and/or second gate may create a deflection of material within the respective
15 first and/or second seal seat, which may energise the first and/or second seal.
   The guide element may actuate the first and second gates so that the first and second
   gates provide the first and second seal independently from each other in the closed
   position. By arranging the first and second gates to independently seal the throughbore
20 in the closed position, a failsafe well bore control apparatus may be provided.
   The guide element may be arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse
   direction to the throughbore. The guide element may be inclined or declined with
   respect to a longitudinal axis of the housing. The guide element may be arranged
25 within the housing to define an acute angle to the longitudinal axis of the housing.
   In some embodiment, the guide element may have a protrusion, recess and/or groove,
   e.g. an elongated protrusion, recess and/or groove. The protrusion, recess and/or
   groove may be arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse direction to the
30 throughbore. In other embodiments, the guide element may have a plurality of
   protrusions, recesses and/or grooves, e.g. elongated protrusions, recesses and/or
   grooves. The plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves may be arranged in the
   housing in a substantially transverse direction to the throughbore. Each protrusion,
   recess and/or groove of the plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves may be
35 arranged parallel to one another.

                                               10
   The housing may include one or more guide elements. In some embodiment, the
   housing may comprise a first and a second guide element. The first and second guide
   elements may be provided in the housing so as to oppose one another. For example,
 5 the first and second guide element may be provided on two opposing surfaces within
   the housing.
   The first and/or second gate may be adapted to engage with the guide element. The
   first and/or second gate may include an engagement element. The engagement
10 element may be provided on the first and/or second gate. The engagement element
   may be arranged for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the guide element of
   the housing. In some embodiments, the engagement element may have a further
   protrusion, recess and/or groove, e.g. for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting the
   respective    protrusion,  recess and/or groove      of the guide element.      In  other
15 embodiments, the engagement element may have a plurality of further protrusions,
   recesses and/or grooves, e.g. for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the
   respective plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves of the guide element. In
   some embodiments, the engagement element is in line or aligned with the taper of the
   first and/or second gate.
20
   The first and/or second gate may include one or more of engagement elements. The
   plurality of engagement elements may be arranged for mating, interoperating and/or
   co-acting with one or more guide elements of the housing. In some embodiments, the
   first and/or second gate may have a first and a second engagement element. The first
25 and second engagement elements may be provided on opposing sides or surfaces of
   the first and/or second gate. The first and second engagement elements may be
   provided on the first and/or second gate to mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with
   the respective first and second guide elements of the housing.
30 The engagement element may be arranged on the first and/or second gate along
   length or in a longitudinal direction of the first and/or second gate. The engagement
   element may be inclined or declined with respect to a longitudinal axis of the first
   and/or second gate. The engagement element may be arranged on the first and/or
   second gate to define an acute angle to the longitudinal axis of the first and/or second
35 gate.

                                                11
   In some embodiments, the acute angle defines by the engagement element may be the
   same as the acute angle defined by the guide element. In other embodiments, the
   acute angle defined by the engagement element may differ from the acute angle
 5 defined by the guide element.
   The first and/or second gate may be tapered or include a taper. The taper may allow
   for the first and second gates to co-act with each other, for example, when the first and
   second gates are in the closed position. In some embodiments, the engagement
10 element is in line or aligned with the taper of the first and/or second gate.
   The first and/or second gate may include first and/or second metal seals. The first
   and/or second seal seat may include a first and/or second metal seal seat. In the
   closed position, the first and/or second gate may engage or abut the respective first
15 and/or second seal seat to form a respective first and/or second metal to metal seal.
   In the closed position, the first and/or second gate and/or the first and/or second
   engagement element may engage or abut the guide element and/or the housing to
   form a further first and/or second seal, e.g. a further first and/or second metal to metal
20 seal, between the first and/or second gate and the guide element and/or housing.
   The first and/or second gate may include a respective first shearing elements and/or a
   respective second shearing element. The first and/or second shearing element may be
   provided on an end of the respective first and/or second gate. The first and/or second
25 shearing elements may be adapted for severing a tubular contained in the throughbore.
   For example, when the first and/or second gates move from the open position to the
   closed position, the first and/or second shearing element may server the tubular
   contained in the throughbore.
30 The well bore control apparatus may include a first gate actuator and/or a second gate
   actuator. The first and/or second gate actuator may be included in the housing. The
   first and/or second gate actuators may be coupled to the respective first and/or second
   gates for moving the first and/or second gate between the open and the closed
   position.
35

                                                  12
   Features defined above in relation to the first and/or second aspect may be applied to
   the third aspect.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for
 5 sealing a well bore, the method comprising:
            providing a well bore control apparatus according to the first aspect of the
   present invention;
            actuating or moving a first and/or second gate in a direction transverse to a
   throughbore from an open position of the throughbore to a closed position of the
10 throughbore;
            engaging the first gate with a first seal seat; and
            forming a first seal between the first gate and the first seal seat to seal or close
   the throughbore.
15 The first seal may prevent or minimise flow of fluid, such as wellbore fluids, through the
   throughbore.
   The method may include actuating or moving the first gate along a path defined by a
   guide element. The guide element may be located in a housing of the well bore control
20 apparatus. The guide element may actuate the first gate into sealing engagement with
   the first seal seat.
   The method may include engaging the second gate with a second seal seat.
25 The method may include forming a second seal between the second gate and the
   second seal seat to seal or close the throughbore.
   The method may comprise actuating or moving the second gate along the path defined
   by the guide element. The guide element may guide the second gate into sealing
30 engagement with the second seal seat.
   Features defined above in relation to the first, second and/or third aspect may be
   applied to the fourth aspect.

                                               13
   According to a fifth aspect there is provided a method for connecting, securing and/or
   fastening together first and second actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus,
   the method comprising:
            providing a well bore control apparatus according to the third aspect of the
 5 present invention; and
            connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second actuator
   portions using a coupling arrangement.
   The step of connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second actuator
10 portions may include connecting together first and second portions of one or more
   elongate members provided on or extending from the respective first and second
   actuating portions, for example by one or more connection members. In some
   embodiments, each first and second portion of the one or more may have a thread,
   such as a screw thread or the like. The one or more connection members may each
15 have a first and second thread. The first and second thread of each of the one or more
   connection member may engage and/or co-act with the thread of each of the first and
   second elongate members.
   The method may include minimising and/or restricting movement, such as outwards
20 movement, of the first and second actuator portions, e.g. when the first and second
   gates are moved or actuated from the open position to the closed position of the
   throughbore by the respective first and second actuators. A force and/or load exerted
   by the coupling arrangement on the first and second actuator portions may be in an
   opposite or reversed direction to a force and/or load exerted on the first and second
25 actuator portions by the first and second actuators, when the first and second gates are
   moved or actuated from the open position to the closed position of the throughbore.
   The method may include adjusting and/or varying tension acting between respective
   first and second portions of the one or more elongate members and/or between the first
30 and second actuator portions. For example, tension between the first and second
   portions of the one or more elongate members and/or first and second actuator
   portions may be varied, for example by moving or rotating the one or more connection
   members to move or pull the first and second together or by moving or rotating the one
   or more connection members to release tension between the first and second actuator
35 portions.

                                                14
   Features defined above in relation to the first, second, third and/or fourth aspect may
   be applied to the fifth aspect.
 5 According to a sixth aspect of the present invention there is provided a coupling
   arrangement for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to the second aspect of
   this invention.
10 The coupling arrangement may comprise any of the features of the second and/or fifth
   aspect.
   In accordance with a seventh aspect of the present invention there is provided a well
   bore control apparatus comprising: a housing defining a throughbore, the throughbore
15 adapted to receive a tubular, first and second gates each having a shearing element
   located within the housing, the gates being moveable in use, in different directions
   transverse to the throughbore between a though bore open position and a throughbore
   closed position to shear a tubular located within the throughbore; and a first seal seat
   for forming a seal with a first gate in the throughbore closed position to seal the
20 throughbore; the housing having first and second gate actuators coupled to the
   respective first and second gates for moving said first and second gates between the
   open and the closed position, the gate actuators each having a removable element for
   providing access to the interior of the well bore control apparatus.
25 Preferably, there is a second seal seat for forming a seal with the other of said gates.
   Conveniently, each actuator is substantially hollow and has an end plate coupled
   thereto, the end plate being independently removable.
30 Preferably said first and second gates are tapered so that, in use, when said gates
   move to a closed position the tapered gates slide over each other to cause
   displacement parallel to the throughbore and cause the surfaces of the gates adjacent
   the seals to abut the seals and energise the sealing.

                                               15
   Conveniently, said seal seats are metal and said gates are metal so that abutment of
   the gates with the seal seats provides a metal to metal seal when the apparatus is
   actuated and the gates are closed. Also, abutment of the seal seat against the housing
   provides metal to metal seals.
 5
   Preferably also, said first and second gate actuators are lockable in an open position or
   in a closed position. Conveniently, this is achieved by providing a plurality of spring
   loaded dogs which are biased to engage receiving positions in said actuator, said dogs
   being movable hydraulically to a release position when it is desired to move said gates
10 between said open and said closed position.
   Features defined above in relation to the first, second and/or third aspect may be
   applied to the seventh aspect.
15 According to eighth aspect of the invention there is provided a well bore control
   apparatus comprising a housing defining a throughbore, the throughbore adapted to
   receive a tubular; first and second cutting gates located within the housing, the gates
   being moveable in use, in different directions transverse to the throughbore between a
   throughbore open position and a throughbore closed position to shear a tubular located
20 within the throughbore and a first seal seat for forming a seal with one of the gates in
   the throughbore closed position to seal the throughbore; the housing having first and
   second gate actuators coupled to respective first and second gates for moving the first
   and second gates between a well bore open and a well bore closed position the gate
   actuators each having a removable element for providing access to the interior of the
25 well bore control apparatus, said removable element being coupled to a shear ram
   assembly.
   Conveniently, said shear ram assembly comprises a drive portion, a travelling block
   portion, a cutting blade and a sealing gate. Preferably also, each of said sealing gates
30 is tapered.
   Preferably also, said seals are metal seals and said gates are metal, thus providing
   metal to metal seals when said well bore control apparatus is in the closed position.

                                               16
   Conveniently, said removable element is coupled to a respective actuator and to the
   ram shear assembly, said element being free to move relative to the housing defining
   the free bore. Conveniently, said removable element is secured to a hollow piston
   actuator.
 5
   Preferably also, said removable element is coupled to said hollow piston actuated by
   means of a plurality of C-rings which are disposed in grooves between said removable
   element and said actuator. Conveniently, there are spaced grooves in each of said
   actuator and said removable element and a C-ring is disposed in each respective pair
10 of grooves to ensure that said removable element is securely fastened to said actuator.
   Conveniently, said actuator or said removable element have a plurality of slots based
   around the periphery for receiving elements for displacing the C-rings to free the
   removable element from the actuator and thus allow the removable element with
   associated shear ram assembly to be removed from the well bore control apparatus.
15
   Conveniently, slots are placed around the periphery for receiving wedges for displacing
   the C-rings.
   Alternatively, a rotatable cam means may be provided with cam surfaces for engaging
20 with the C-rings so that rotation of the cam carrying element will cause the cam
   surfaces to abut the C-rings and in response to the displacement of the cam surfaces
   the C-rings will be displaced into the grooves to allow the removable end element and
   associated shear ram assembly to be removed from the well bore control apparatus.
25 Features defined above in relation to the first, second, third and/or seventh aspect may
   be applied to the eighth aspect.
   According to a ninth aspect of the invention there is provided a mechanism for locking
   the position of a reciprocating piston with a hydraulic cylinder, said mechanism
30 comprising a housing defining a volume for receiving a piston, said piston being
   movable within the volume between first and second positions, such that in a first
   position it defines a first volume for extending the piston and in the second position it
   defines a second volume for retracting the piston, said piston and said housing having
   a sealing arrangement separating said first and second volumes to create a third
35 volume, said third volume being disposed between said piston seals and said third

                                               17
   volume travelling with movement of said piston, each of said first, second and third
   volumes being coupled to hydraulic ports for receiving hydraulic fluid under pressure,
   said piston having spaced recesses for receiving at least one locking dog to lock said
   piston in said closed position or in an open position, said at least one locking dog being
 5 normally biased to engage with the recess in said piston to lock said piston in a first or
   second position and said locking dog being displaceable by actuation of hydraulic
   pressure to said third volume to bias said locking dog against a spring load and permit
   pressure to be applied to said first volume or to said second volume for displacing said
   piston within said housing.
10
   Said housing is cylindrical and there are a plurality of spring biased locking dogs
   disposed equally around the periphery of the housing for engagement with respective
   recesses in said cylindrical piston.
15 According to a tenth aspect of the invention there is provided a further coupling
   arrangement for coupling a first body and a second body together, both bodies being
   circular and one body being denoted as the female body and the other body being
   denoted as the male body, the female body having an interior circular surface having a
   plurality of space grooves therein and the male body also having a circular surface of
20 substantially the same diameter of the interior surface of said female body and having
   an equal number of similarly sized grooves therein, said grooves in said male and
   female bodies being equally spaced and being adapted to receive a C-ring, which are
   installed in the grooved of either said male or female body, a plurality of slots located in
   either of said male body or said female body which intersect with the circumferential
25 grooves, the slots being adapted to receive a plurality of elements for engaging with the
   C-rings in said circumferential grooves and displacing said C-rings to permit the male
   and female bodies to be disengaged.
   Alternatively, the axial slots are replaced by shafts carrying cam surfaces for
30 engagement with the grooves such that rotation of the shafts causes the cam surfaces
   to displace the C-rings and allow the male and female elements to be disengaged.
   According to a eleventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of servicing
   the interior of a well bore control apparatus according to the first aspect of the
35 invention, said method comprising the steps of removing an end cover of a well bore

                                                18
   control apparatus, said end cover being coupled to a shear ram assembly, removing
   said end cover and said shear ram assembly to permit replacement of a cutting blade,
   a sealing gate or a valve seal.
 5 Preferably, the method includes decoupling the end cover from a hollow cylindrical
   actuator using wedges to displace C-rings. Alternatively, the method              includes
   decoupling the end cover from a hollow cylindrical actuator using cam surfaces to
   displace locking C-rings.
10 Preferably, also included is a method of improving a metal to metal sealing
   arrangement using a well bore control apparatus comprising providing metal sealing
   gates with tapered surfaces, in response to closing said well bore control apparatus
   energising metal to metal sealing between a top metal seal and a first gate surface and
   between a bottom metal seal and a gate surface such that the seals are in a state of
15 high compressive preload.
   Preferably, also said first and said second seal seats engage the housing to form
   further metal to metal seals.
20 It should be understood that the features defined above in accordance with any aspect
   of the present invention or below in relation to any specific embodiment of the invention
   may be utilised, either alone or in combination with any other defined feature, in any
   other aspect or embodiment of the invention.
25 These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following
   description when taken in combination with the accompanying drawings in which:
   Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a well control system with a well bore control apparatus
   located above a set of pipe rams;
30
   Fig. 2 is an enlarged view of the well bore control apparatus shown in Fig. 1 with the
   device in the open position;
   Fig. 3a is a vertical section view taken through the apparatus of Fig. 2 on lines 3-3 of
35 Fig. 2 with shear rams and sealing gates removed;

                                                 19
   Fig. 3b is an enlarged view of part of Fig. 3a;
   Fig. 3c is a vertical section view taken through the apparatus of Fig. 2 on the lines 4-4;
 5
   Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view taken through the apparatus shown in Fig. 2 on the
   lines 4-4;
   Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view through the device of Fig. 2 taken on the lines 3-3;
10
   Fig. 6 is a vertical section view taken through the device of Fig. 2 on the lines 5-5;
   Fig. 7a is a vertical section view similar to Fig. 3a, illustrating a the lower shear ram and
   gate, having a cutting blade, of the apparatus of Fig. 1 in the open position;
15
   Fig. 7b is enlarged isometric view of the lower gate of Fig. 7a;
   Figs. 8a and 8b are vertical section views similar to Fig. 7a, showing the lower gate
   being actuated by a guide element to seal a well bore in the closed position of the
20 apparatus of Fig. 1;
   Fig. 9a is a vertical section view similar to Fig. 8a, showing the upper and lower gates
   being actuated by the guide element to seal the well bore in the closed position of the
   apparatus of Fig. 1;
25
   Fig. 9b is a cross sectional view similar to Fig. 5 in the closed position of the apparatus
   of Fig. 1;
   Fig. 10 depicts the well bore control apparatus of Fig. 2 but with the actuators moved
30 so that the device is in the closed position to seal the well bore;
   Fig. 11 is a cross sectional view similar to Fig. 9b but with no guide element present
   according to an embodiment of the present invention; ;

                                                 20
   Fig. 12 is a similar vertical sectional view of Fig. 9a but with no guide element present
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 13 is a view similar to Fig. 6 but with no guide element present and with an end
 5 butt plate and attached gate rod and sealing gate shown removed;
   Figs. 14a and 14b are vertical sectional views through the well bore control apparatus
   with the gates actuated in the open position as shown in Fig. 14a and in the closed
   position as shown in Fig. 14b;
10
   Fig. 15a is a vertical sectional and diagrammatic view similar to Figs. 14a and 14b and
   showing diagrammatically tapered gates;
   Fig. 15b is an enlarged detail of part of Fig. 15a shown in broken outline.
15
   Fig. 16 shows a graph of the relationship of pressure applied to the actuators during
   movement of the gates for a well bore apparatus having parallel and tapered gates
   according to embodiments of the invention and for a wellbore apparatus with rams that
   are pushed together;
20
   Figs. 17a and 17b are views similar to Fig. 2, depicting coupling arrangement of the
   well bore apparatus, with the well bore apparatus being in the open position as shown
   in Fig. 17a and in the closed position as shown in Fig. 17b.
25 Figs. 18a and 18b depict similar views to Figs. 15a and 15b but with gate rod and
   sealing gate removed to illustrate accessibility to the interior;
   Figs. 19a, 19b, 19c, 19d and 19e depict a mechanism for locking the position of a
   reciprocating piston within a hydraulic cylinder to illustrate a method which is used in
30 locking the position of the actuators and thus the sealing gates in the apparatus of Figs.
   1 to 18;
   Fig. 20a is an enlarged detail of part of the apparatus shown in Fig. 6 in broken outline
   with, in a perspective view taken in the direction of arrow 13 and depicting the
35 engagement of the end plate with the actuator housing;

                                               21
   Fig. 20b depicts an illustrative view of how inserts can be used to remove an end butt
   plate; and
 5 Figs. 21a, 21b, 21c and 21d depict the end plate with C-rings in place and illustrating in
   sequence how wedges can be inserted into slots for engagement with C-rings and
   removal of the end plate to provide access to the interior.
   Reference is first made to Fig. 1 of the drawings which depicts a blow out preventer
10 (BOP) stack generally indicated by reference numeral 20, which consists of a well bore
   control system provided by a well bore control apparatus 22 in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention, which has a pair of shear rams, as will later be
   described in detail, for closing a well bore 23 in the event of an emergency, and two
   sets of pipe rams 24, 26 disposed orthogonally to each other and disposed on the BOP
15 stack 20 beneath the well bore control apparatus 22.
   Reference is now made to Fig. 2 of the drawings which depict an enlarged view of the
   apparatus 22 shown in Fig. 1. The well bore control apparatus consists of a housing
   27, including a main steel body 28 and two cylindrical actuator housings generally
20 indicated by reference numerals 30 and 32 which are fastened together by a coupling
   arrangement 34, which will be described in more detail below.
   As will be later explained in detail, the ends 30 and 32 contain actuators for actuating
   shear rams carrying cutting blades and sealing gates to move between an open
25 position and a closed position. The actuators and rams are arranged so that for the
   position shown in Figure 2 the gates are in the open position and the bore 23 is open,
   as shown in broken outline 23a.
   Referring to Figures 3a and 3b, which are vertical sections taken on lines 3-3 of Fig. 2
   with shear rams and sealing gates removed. In this embodiment, the housing 27
30 includes a guide element 36, which consist of a plurality of parallel and elongated ribs
   37. The guide element 36 is adapted to interact with the lower and/or upper gate
   64a,64b and defines a path for the upper and/or lower gate to be moved on. It will be
   appreciated that in further embodiments, only one rib 37 may be provided in the
   housing 27. It will be further appreciated that the in further embodiment, the guide
35 element 36 may include one or more recesses and/or grooves.

                                                  22
   As can be seen in Figures 3a and 3b, the ribs 37 are arranged in the housing 27 in a
   substantially transverse direction to the throughbore 23. Here, the ribs 37 are inclined
   with respect to a longitudinal axis A of the housing 27. The ribs 37 are arranged within
 5 the housing 27 to define an acute angle a to the longitudinal axis A of the housing 27.
   The angle a of the ribs 37 shown in Figure 3a is not to scale and exaggerated for
   illustrative purposes. Here, the ribs 37 are part of the main body 28, extending
   substantially transverse to the through bore. For friction lock coefficient of friction (p) >
   sin (a). For no friction lock p < sin (a).
10
   Referring to Figure 3c, this figure shows a vertical section taken on the line 4-4 of
   Figure 2. The housing 27 has first and second guide elements 36a and 36b. Both the
   first and second guide elements 36a and 36b have a plurality of ribs 37. It will be
   appreciated that in further embodiments, the housing may include more or less than
15 two guide elements 37. Here, the first and second guide elements 36a and 36a are
   provided in the housing 27 so as to oppose one another, e.g. the first and second guide
   elements 36a and 36b are provided on two opposing surfaces of the bore 23 within the
   main body 28.
20 Reference is now made to Fig. 4 of the drawings which is a vertical section taken on
   the lines 4-4 of Fig. 2. It will be seen that the main body 28 defines the bore 23 and the
   main body has an internal bore profile 40 into which are disposed upper metal valve
   seal 42 and lower metal valve seal 44. Between the seals 42, 44 are shown parts of
   shear rams, the parts being upper and lower travelling block portions 46a and 46b
25 respectively, which are coupled to ram drive rods and sealing gates, as will be later
   described in detail. The upper travelling block is shown coupled to cutting blade 54a.
   When the apparatus is actuated the shear rams move horizontally and traverse the well
   bore 23 and in combination with a similar blade (not shown) coupled to lower travelling
   block 46b shear any tubular passing through the well bore, as will be later described in
30 detail.
   Reference is now made to Fig. 5 of the drawings, which is a horizontal sectional view
   through the apparatus shown in Fig. 2. It will be seen that the main body 28 has, at
   each respective cylindrical end 30 and 32, respective end caps 30a, 32a butt plates
35 30b, 32b. The end caps 30a, 32a are fastened to cylindrical ends 30, 32. The flanges

                                               23
   34a, 34b are fastened to the main body 28 by super nuts and studs 36 and the butt
   plates 30b, 32b are fastened to inner hollow pistons 66a, 68a as will be later described.
   The main body structure and end plate structure define approximately the external
   length of the apparatus shown in the closed position.
 5
   The flanges 34a, 34b and main body 28 define an interior chamber generally indicated
   by reference numeral 52 into which are disposed the shear rams generally indicated by
   reference numerals 60a and 60b. The combination of butt plates and flanges are end
   covers.
10
   Each shear ram 60a, 60b has a rod portion 62a, 62b, a travelling block portions 46a,
   46b and gates 64a and 64b for sealing the well bore 23 when the apparatus is
   actuated, as will be later described in detail. Also shown in Fig. 5 is top cutting blade
   54a which is generally V shaped in plan view and which has a hardened cutting edge
15 made of Inconel or similar very hard material suitable for cutting through steel tubulars,
   cables, wires and the like.
   Each cylindrical end 30, 32 also houses a hollow moveable inner pistons generally
   indicated by reference numeral 66a, 68a which are coupled to the respective movable
20 outer pistons 66b and 68b. It will also be seen from Fig. 5 that butt plates 30b and 32b
   are coupled to respective inner pistons 66a, 68a and butt plates and are also coupled
   to shear ram rods 62a and 62b so that, as will later be described in detail, when the
   inner and outer pistons are actuated to move between an open and closed position, the
   piston rods and travelling blocks and cutting gates are moved between the open and
25 the closed position.
   Fig. 6 depicts a vertical sectional view through the apparatus of Fig. 2 and in this
   diagram upper and lower cutting blades 54a and 54b are shown coupled to the
   respective rams 60a and 60b.
30
   Referring to Figures 7a and 7b, there is shown a further vertical view through the
   apparatus 22 of Figure 2 and in these figures the lower shear ram 60b and lower gate
   64b with lower cutting blade 54b are in the open position.

                                               24
   As can be seen in Figure 7b, the lower gate 64b has first and second engagement
   elements 65a and 65 b, which are arranged on outer opposing surfaces 67a and 67b of
   the lower gates 64b for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the ribs 37 of the
   first and second guide elements 36a and 36b of the housing 27. In Figure 7b, the lower
 5 gate 64b has two recesses 69 provided on outer surfaces 67a and 67b, which can
   engage with ribs 37 of the housing 27. It will be appreciated that in further
   embodiments the lower gate 64b may comprise a single ribs, recess and/or groove or a
   plurality of ribs, recesses and/or grooves for engagement with a respective single rib,
   recess and/or groove or a respective plurality of ribs, recesses and/or grooves of the
10 guide element 37.
   Referring to Figure 7b, the recesses 69a, 69b are arranged on the lower gate 64b
   along a length or in a longitudinal direction of the lower gate 64b. The recesses
   69a,69b are inclined with respect to a longitudinal axis B of the lower gate 64b and
15 arranged on the lower gate 64b to define an acute angle       p to the longitudinal axis B of
   the lower gate 64b, as illustrated in Figure 7b. The angle   p shown in Figure 7b is not to
   scale and exaggerated for illustrative purposes. In some embodiments, the acute angle
   p defined   by the recesses 69a,69b is the same as the acute angle a defined by the ribs
   37.
20
   It will be appreciated that further embodiments, the acute angle P may differ from the
   acute angle a but it will be understood that the recesses 69a, 69b define a groove 69c
   which has a sufficient spacing to accept a rib 37.
25 As can be seen in Figure 7b, the lower gate 64b has a taper along a length of the lower
   gate 64b. As will be further described below, the taper allows for the upper and lower
   gates 64a, 64b to co-act with each other when the upper and lower gates 64a,64b
   gates are open, closing or in the closed position. It will be appreciated that the features
   of the lower gate 64b, described above with reference to Figure 7b, are equally
30 applicable to the upper gate 64a.
   Figures 8a and 8b show the lower gate 64 b of Figure 7b in the closed position of the
   bore 23. Figures 8a and 8b show the apparatus 22 actuated such that the hollow inner
   pistons 66a, 68a are moved outwardly and pull butt plates 30b and 32b and shear rams
35 60a (not shown) and 60b coupled thereto so that the cutting blades 54a (not shown),

                                                 25
   54b cut the tubular (not shown). At the extent of travel shown in Figures 8a and 8b the
   lower gate 64b is shown sealing the bore 23. It will be seen that the lower surface 80 of
   gate 64b is shown abutting the upper surface 82 of valve seal 44 thus providing metal
   to metal sealing between the lower gate 64b and the valve seal 44 to provide an
 5 effective metal to metal seal.
   As illustrated in Figure 8b the ribs 37 of the guide element 36 are arranged to guide the
   lower gate 64b into sealing engagement with the lower valve seal 44. When the lower
   gate 64b moves from the open position to the closed position the ribs 37 vertically
10 displace the lower gate 64b. The ribs 37 create or provide a displacement component
   of the movement of the gate lower 64b, which is perpendicular to the direction of
   actuation and parallel to the bore 23, as indicated by the arrows in Figure 8b. The
   vertical displacement of the lower gate 64b, creates a deflection of material within the
   adjacent valve seal 44, thereby energising the metal to metal valve seal against
15 surface 80 of the lower gate 64b. By vertically displacing the lower gate 64b into
   sealing engagement with the lower valve seal 44, a substantially fluid tight seal is
   formed between the lower gate 64b and the valve seal 44, which is substantially
   independent of any wellbore fluids and/or pressure. This arrangement provides a fluid
   tight metal to metal seal, which results in a more robust and enhanced seal integrity in
20 well bores. If the angle a is sufficiently acute, friction between the seat and gate and
   gate and rib will be limiting and the       gate will experience zero backlash. The gate
   can/will be effectively locked by friction alone.
   In the closed position, the engagement elements 65a, 65b of the lower gate 64b
25 engage or abut the ribs 37 of guide element 36 and the main body 28 to form a further
   seal, which is a metal to metal seal, between the lower gate 64b and the guide element
   36 and the main body 28.
   As can be seen in Figures 8a and 8b, by arranging the guide element 36 to actuate the
30 lower and/or upper gate 64a, 64b into sealing engagement with the respective upper
   and/or lower valve seal 42,44, the bore 23 is sealed when either the upper or the lower
   gate 64a,64b is in the closed position. The guide element 36 can actuate the lower and
   upper gates 64a,64b so that the upper and lower gates 64a, 64b provide the upper and
   lower seals independently from each other in the closed position. This arrangement
35 provides a failsafe well bore control apparatus 22. It will be appreciated that the

                                                 26
   features of the lower gate 64b, described above with reference to Figures 8a and 8b,
   equally applicable to the upper gate 64a.
   Referring to Figure 9a, there is shown the upper and lower gates 64a, 64b in the closed
 5 position, thereby sealing the bore 23. Figure 9b of the drawings, which is a horizontal
   sectional view through the apparatus shown in Fig. 2 with the lower gate 64b in the
   closed position. Although the above formation of the lower seal and further seal has
   been described with respect to the lower gate 64b in Figures 8a and 8b, it will be
   appreciated that the upper gate 64a may form an upper seal with the upper valve seal
10 42 in the same manner as described above in relation to the lower gate 64b. Similarly,
   it will appreciated that both the lower and upper gate 64a, 64b can sealingly engage
   the upper and lower seal seats 42,44 as shown in Figure 9a. At the extent of travel
   shown in Fig. 9a the gates 64a, 64b are shown sealing the bore 23. It will be seen that
   an upper surface 76 of gate 64a abuts a lower surface 78 of valve seal 42 and similarly
15 the lower surface 80 of gate 64b is shown abutting an upper surface 82 of valve seal
   44 thus providing metal to metal sealing between the gate and the seals to provide an
   effective metal to metal seal in two positions within the apparatus.
   Reference is now made to Figs. 9a and 9b, 10, 11 and 12 of the drawings which depict
20 the well bore control apparatus in the closed position. Referring first to Fig. 10 it will be
   seen that the pistons have been hydraulically actuated to move the gates 64a, 64b to a
   closed position such that the inner pistons 66a, 68a are shown displaced to a position
   where they extend from the bore 23 beyond their respective housing cylinders 30 and
   32. Internally this is best illustrated by reference to Figs. 9, 11 and 12 which are
25 respective horizontal and vertical sectional views similar to Figs. 5 and 6 respectively.
   Referring first to Fig. 11, it will be seen that the outer pistons have been actuated and
   moved within the respective cylindrical housings to the positions shown and, as such,
   as they are coupled to inner pistons 66a, 68a, these pistons are moved away from the
   well bore. However, the butt plates 30b, 32b are coupled to the shear ram actuation
30 rods 62a, 62b and these are pulled in the same direction as the pistons 66a, 68a such
   that the shear rams 60a, 60b are displaced or pulled outwardly in the opposite direction
   to the position shown in Fig. 11. In this case, the gates 64a, 64b are displaced over the
   well bore 23. It will be understood that, should a tubular have been present within the
   well bore, the tubular would have been first sheared by the blades 54a, 54b to allow the
35 gates 64a, 64b to cover and seal the well bore as shown in Figs 11 and 12. Within

                                                27
   each cylindrical housing 30 and 32 respective stop rings 70a, 70b are located which
   limit the extent of travel of the outer and inner pistons thereby adjusting the exact
   positioning of the gates to seal the well bore.
 5 As will be later described in detail, when the piston is either in the closed or the open
   position, it can be retained therein by using a plurality of locking dogs 72 which are
   shown disposed around the periphery of the cylinder. The locking dogs are spring
   loaded to be retained in recesses 74 in the outer surface of pistons 66b, 68b.
10 Reference is now made to Fig. 13 which depicts a vertical sectional view through the
   well bore control apparatus in a view similar to Fig. 6, but with the lower shear ram
   assemblies 60b shown removed. The lower shear ram assembly shown here consists
   of the butt plate 32b, the flange 34a and the shear ram consisting of the rod 62b, the
   travelling block 46b, the blade 54b and the gate 64b. Thus, it will be appreciated that by
15 removing a shear ram in this way the internal structure of the apparatus can be
   serviced, maintained and for example the blades 54a, 54b can be replaced and the
   gates 64a, 64b can also be replaced and/or machined. Similarly, this allows access into
   the metal to metal seals 42, 44 which can also be removed and replaced by similar
   types of seals or seals of a different material thus facilitating servicing of the apparatus.
20 Figures 11 to 13 shows an alternative embodiment of the well bore apparatus of
   Figures 1 to 10, with no guide element 36 present in the main body 28. It will be
   appreciated that in further embodiments, the well bore apparatus of Figures 11 to 13
   may be provided with one or more guide elements, as described above.
25 Reference is now made to Figs. 14a, 14b and 15a and 15b of the drawings which
   better illustrate the operation of the apparatus in accordance with the invention. The
   apparatus in Fig. 14a is shown closed with the rams in a position such that the well
   bore 23 is open with a tubular 75 passing therethrough and shown in broken outline.
   Fig. 14b shows the apparatus actuated such that the hollow inner pistons 66a, 68a are
30 moved outwardly and pull butt plates 30b and 32b and shear rams 60a and 60b
   coupled thereto so that the cutting blades 54a, 54b cut the tubular which is shown
   separated in broken outline 75. At the extent of travel shown in Fig. 14b the gates 64a,
   64b are shown sealing the bore 23. It will be seen that the upper surface 76 of gate 64a
   abuts the lower surface 78 of seal 42 and similarly the lower surface 80 of gate 64b is
35 shown abutting the upper surface 82 of seal 44 thus providing metal to metal sealing

                                                 28
   between the gate and the seals to provide an effective metal to metal seal in two
   positions within    the   apparatus   similar to    the arrangement       disclosed  in the
   aforementioned UK patent GB2454850B. It will also be understood that metal seals 42,
   44 energises against housing 28 providing further metal to metal seals and avoiding
 5 the requirement for elastomeric seals.
   Reference is made to Figs. 9, 15a and 15b where it will be seen that the gate blocks
   64a, 64b are tapered along the direction of travel shown as exaggerated taper surfaces
   67a, 67b such that as the gate blocks move the tapers pass over each other to create a
10 displacement component of motion which is perpendicular to the direction of actuation
   and parallel to the housing throughbore. This perpendicular component, shown in blue
   arrows in Figs. 15a and 15b is axial and is sufficient to create a deflection of material
   within the adjacent valve seats 42, 44 thus energising the metal to metal valve seat
   seal against the surfaces 76, 80 of the respective gates 64a and 64b and it also
15 energises the seals 42, 44 against housing 28 providing further metal to metal seals.
   The angle of taper illustrated in Figs 15a and 15b is shown not to scale. It is preferable
   that a shallow angle is used in order to generate the required preload to energise the
   metal to metal seals and to minimise the depth of the galley.
20 The minimum angle of the taper that can be utilised is limited by the preload capacity of
   the seal arrangement and/or the stroke length of the actuator.
   The maximum angle of the taper that can be utilised is limited by the preload
   requirements of the seal and/or the capacity of the actuator and/or the capacity of the
25 actuator locks.
   A shallow angle is preferred in order maximise the transfer of work done by the
   actuator to seal preload, but the angle must sufficient to be compliant with the system
   in terms of its manufacturing and assembly tolerances.
30
    The angle of taper may be so shallow such that it is difficult to perceive by eye, but the
   gates will have sufficient tapers to generate an intended component of displacement
   perpendicular to the direction of travel of the gates sufficient to energies a seal.

                                                29
   This has a significant advantage that once the valve is closed, the seal is already fully
   energised independent of any well bore pressure or fluid excitement, providing an
   extremely robust seal for both low pressure fluids and low density fluids. This
   arrangement places all seal locations of the bore in a state of high compressive pre
 5 load irrespective of the state of bore conditions or conditions of any fluid within the
   bore. This provides a true self energising bi-directional metal to metal seal and the seal
   state of high compressive pre load allows for the use of full metal to metal seal thus
   providing a more robust and enduring seal integrity.
10 Figure 16 shows a graph of the relationship of pressure or hydraulic pressure applied
   to the actuators, for example the inner and outer pistons 66a,66b,68a68b, during the
   movement of the upper and lower gates 64a, 64b from the open to the closed position
   of the bore 23 for different configurations of the upper and lower gates in a wellbore
   control apparatus. The solid line in Figure 16 relates to a well bore control apparatus 22
15 with parallel gates, i.e. gates without a taper. The dashed line in Figure 16 illustrates a
   well bore control apparatus 22 with tapered gates. The dotted line refers to a wellbore
   control apparatus with rams, which are pushed to one another to close the
   throughbore.
20 Referring to Figure 16, it can be seen that at about 10 per cent (A) of the movement,
   pressure is increased to the actuators to move the gates into the bore from the closed
   position. For ram preventors, this initial pressure is higher as a pressure of the bore
   pressure has to be overcome to push the gates into the bore.
25 Between 20 and 30 per cent of the movement (B) the actuator pressure increases
   while the tubular contained in the bore 23 is cut by cutting blades 64a, 64b. For the well
   bore control apparatus with rams, the movement terminates at about 50 per cent (C) as
   the rams only travel to a midpoint of the bore 23. For the embodiment of a well bore
   control apparatus with tapered gates and parallel gates (solid and dashed lines,
30 respectively), the gate movement continues. At above 90 per cent (D), the actuating
   pressure increases for the embodiment of a well bore apparatus with tapered gates.
   This increase is due to the interaction of the upper and lower gates, e.g. when the
   upper and lower gates 64a,64b slide over each other. Alternatively or additionally, this
   increase in actuating pressure can be due to the interaction of the guide element 37
35 with the engagement elements 65a,65b of the upper and/or lower gate 64a,64b.

                                               30
   In the embodiment of a well bore control apparatus with parallel gates, the seal
   provided by the upper and lower gates of the bore depends on wellbore pressure or
   fluid excitement. By providing a wellbore control apparatus with tapered gates, the seal
 5 of the bore is energised by the interaction and friction between the upper and lower
   seals 64a, 64b, as described above. The use of tapered gates may minimise the
   occurrence of leaks of wellbore fluids in the wellbore control apparatus and thus, lead
   to enhanced safety. Alternatively or additionally, by providing a well bore apparatus
   with a guide element, the seal of the bore is energised actuating the gates, e.g. tapered
10 or parallel gates, into sealing engagement with the upper and/or lower valve seat
   42,44, as described above.
   Referring to Figures 17 a and 17 b, there is shown enlarged views of the apparatus of
   Figure 1 in the open position (Figure 17a) and in the closed position of the bore 23
15 (Figure 17b). As described with reference to Figure 2, first and second actuator
   housings 30 and 32 are fastened together by the coupling arrangement 34.             Each
   cylindrical actuator housing 30,32 includes the first and second actuators, which in this
   example include the inner pistons 66a,68a and outer pistons 66b,68b as described
   above. As can be seen in Figures 17a and 17b, the actuator housings 30,32 are
20 coaxially arranged external of the bore 23.
   The coupling arrangement 34 is arranged to pull the first and second actuator 30,32
   housings to one another in a longitudinal direction of the housing 27. Here, the coupling
   arrangement 34 biases or pulls the first and second actuator housings 30,32 inwards
25 and towards the bore 23 by applying an inwardly directed force and/or load, e.g. a force
   and/or load towards the bore 23, on the first and second actuator housings 30,32.
   In Figure 17b, the inner and outer pistons 66a,68a,66b,68b have been hydraulically
   actuated to move the gates 64a,64b into the closed positions, as described above. As
30 can be seen in Figure 17b in the closed position the inner pistons 66a,68a have been
   actuated outwards, so as to extend from their respective actuator housings 30,32. The
   inner pistons 66a,68a can exert an outwards directed force and/or load, e.g. a force
   and/or load directed away from the bore 23, on the first and second actuator housings
   30,32 in use. In use, a force and/or load exerted by the coupling arrangement 34 on the
35 first and second actuator housing 30,32 is in an opposite or reversed direction to a

                                              31
   force and/or load exerted on the first and second actuator housings 30,32 by the
   actuation of the inner pistons 66a,68a. when the gates are moved to the closed
   position.
 5 Here, the coupling arrangement 34 minimises and/or prevents movement, such as
   outwards movement, of the first and second actuator housings 30,32 when the gates
   64,64b are moved and/or actuated from the open position to the closed position of the
   bore 23 by the respective inner and outer pistons 66a,68a,66b,68b.
   As can be seen in Figure 17a and 17b, the coupling arrangement 34 is provided
10 external of the bore 23, extending along a longitudinal direction of the housing 27. The
   coupling arrangement provides an efficient load path between the first and second
   actuator housings 30,32. The coupling arrangement avoids the use of flanges or the
   like for coupling the actuator housings 30,32 to the bore 23, which leads to a reduction
   in weight of the wellbore control apparatus.
15
   In this embodiment, the coupling arrangement includes six elongate members or tie
   arrangements, three of which are shown in Figures 17a and 17b, indicated by
   reference numeral 35. It will be appreciated that in further embodiments, such as those
   shown in Figures 2 and 10, there may be provided more or less than six elongate
20 members 35. The elongate members 35 are arranged parallel to one another in this
   example. Each of the tie arrangement 35 includes a first tie portion or rod 36a and a
   second tie portion or rod 36b. As can be seen in Figures 17 a and 17b the first and
   second tie portions 36a,36b extend from the respective first and second actuator
   housings 30,32.
25
   The coupling arrangement 34 includes six connection members or turn buckles 38,
   three of which are shown in Figures 17a and 17b, for connecting together the
   respective first and second tie portions 36a,36b of elongate members 35. It will be
   appreciated that in further examples, such as those shown in Figure 2 and 10, there
30 may be provided more or less than six connection member 38. Each turn buckle 38
   and each of the first and second tie portions 36a,36b have screw threads, such as left
   hand and right hand screw threads as in this example, so that rotation of the turn
   buckles 38 can pull the first and second actuator housings 30, 32 together.

                                                 32
   Rotating the turn buckles permits tension between first and second actuator housings
   30,32 to be adjusted or varied. For example, tension between the first and second
   actuator housings 30,32 may be varied by rotating the turn buckles 38 to pull the first
   and second actuator housings 30,32 together or rotating the turn buckles 38 to release
 5 tension between the first and second actuator housings 30,32.
   Reference is now made to Figs. 18a and 18b of the drawings where, in a manner
   similar to that shown and described with reference to Fig. 13, an end plate and
   associated shear ram assembly is shown removed to allow access to the interior of the
10 apparatus. This is enabled by providing the actuators 66a, 68a as hollow pistons
   around the closing body, which are the gates, so that the pistons and gates are
   effectively in parallel rather than in series. This structure has the advantage of
   shortening the overall length of the arrangement compared to an arrangement where
   the piston and gate are in series and furthermore, because the ram is mounted on the
15 butt plate, removal of the butt plate and ram is not hindered or disrupted by the location
   of the actuator, which means that, as shown in Figs. 15a and 15b, the assembly and
   gates can be removed with the actuator remaining in situ. Similarly, it will also be
   appreciated that it is possible to disconnect the piston actuator from the gate and rod
   thereby allowing the actuator to be function tested in isolation without operating the
20 gate. Furthermore, the shear ram rod which provides transmission for the stroke of the
   valve gate can remain in situ while the actuator is removed providing the significant
   advantage of eliminating any requirement to disturb the pressure integrity of the valve
   when servicing or removing the actuator.
25 Operation of the outer piston arrangement show in Figs. 1 to 18 will now be described
   in detail with reference to Figs 19a to 19e. It will be appreciated that as pistons are
   controlled by hydraulic fluid it is important to provide a control system that ensures that
   the inner and outer pistons afore described are maintained in position and do not
   reciprocate in the event of a hydraulic failure. This is provided using a control
30 mechanism locking the position of the reciprocating piston within a hydraulic cylinder.
   With reference to Figs. 19a to 19e which show the outer piston 66b at various stages of
   actuation, it will be seen that the hydraulic cylinder has two actuating volumes 82, 84
   which are isolated by the outer piston 66b, 68b, one volume 82 for extending the piston
35 and the other volume 84 for retracting the piston. The piston has a sealing arrangement

                                                33
   provided by the seals 86, 88 which separate the actuating volumes 82, 84 and also
   isolates and defines a third volume 90 which exists between the piston seals 86, 88.
   This third volume 90 travels with the piston as it moves within the housing on main
   volume defined between the outer cylinders 30, 32 and the main body of the apparatus
 5 28 as can be best seen in Figs. 14a and 14b.
   The volume 90 is controlled independently as the two actuating volumes 84, 86 and is
   pressurised hydraulic fluid via a port 92. Pressuring this volume controls a series of
   circumferentially disposed locking dogs 72. As shown in all of the diagrams
10 aforementioned, it will be understood that each locking dog is sprung loaded with a
   spring washer (not shown in the interests of clarity) which means that each locking dog
   is biased into engagement with one of the piston bearing grooves 94, thus locking the
   piston in one of two positions i.e. either in the closed position or in the open position.
   Applying hydraulic pressure to the volume 90 will force the locking dogs against the
15 spring washers moving them out of engagement with the bearing groove 94 and
   allowing actuation of the outer inner piston and the rams to move between the open
   and closed positions as afore described.
   In Fig. 19a it will be seen that the piston is locked in a retracted position such that the
20 dogs are biased into groove 94. Hydraulic pressure is applied via line 92 to force the
   locking dogs to retract as shown in Fig. 19b. This allows hydraulic pressure to be
   applied to volume 86 to extend the piston as shown in Fig. 19c. When hydraulic
   pressure is released from volume 1 and volume 3 the locking dogs are spring biased in
   position such that the dogs engage with groove 94. This prevents the piston from
25 recoiling in the event of hydraulic failure.
   Reference is now made to Figs. 20a, 20b and Figs. 21a, 21b which explain how the
   butt plates are retained within the inner piston actuator and how the butt plates are then
   removed so that the ram assembly can provide access to the interior of the apparatus
30 as described with reference to Figs 12a, 12b.
   Referring first to Fig 20a, it will be seen that the end plate and the actuator has three
   spaced square section grooves 100a, b, c, 102a, b, c and there is a C-ring 104a, b, c
   disposed in each pair of grooves shown. It will be appreciated that the grooves are
35 large enough to accommodate the C-rings shown but are also large enough to allow

                                                34
   displacement of the C-rings either to the butt plate 32b or to the actuator as will be
   described. This is achieved by providing slots 104 in the butt plate which are disposed
   around the periphery of the butt plate. The slots extend through the butt plate and allow
   wedges to be inserted so that once the wedges 106 (Fig 20b) are inserted the C-rings
 5 are displaced into the grooves in the inner actuator piston and this allows the stud and
   nuts to be turned and release the butt plate 32b which carries the shear ram assembly
   60a. The wedges 104 when inserted allow removal of the butt plate 32b in the direction
   of the arrow shown in Fig. 20b.
10 It will be appreciated that various modifications may be made to the embodiment of the
   apparatus and parts thereof herein before described without departing from the scope
   of the invention.
   For example, it will be appreciated that the gate blocks 64a, 64b need not be tapered,
15 although the provision of tapered gate blocks provides the aforementioned advantage
   of energising the seals, so that once the valve is closed an extremely robust seal is
   provided for low pressure fluids and low density fluids, thus providing better seal
   integrity.
   The material of the blades may be Inconel or any equivalent hard material sufficient to
20 cut through tubulars and the like. The axial slots 104 which intersect the circumferential
   groves as shown in Figs. 20 to 21 could also be placed in the actuator as well as or
   instead of the end plate 32b. It will also be understood that the C-rings 102 may be
   displaced by other methods such as providing a cam shaft with surfaces which abut
   each of the C-rings and location of the cam shaft could displace the C-rings into the
25 groves either on the actuator or on the end plate to allow the end plate to be removed.
   It will thus be appreciated that the aforementioned apparatus provides significant
   advantages over the art in terms of providing energised seal integrity and ease of
   access to allow maintenance of the interior of the apparatus. The arrangement is such
30 that either the actuator can be removed to leave the gate in place, thus ensuring seal
   integrity or the shear ram can be removed allowing replacement of blades and seals
   facilitating rapid maintenance and significantly reduced time and therefore expense
   than with existing arrangement. The structure herein before described is applicable to
   various sizes of apparatus from the 5" to 7" inch product all the way to an 18% inch
35 product, all of which operate on a similar principle as the aforementioned embodiment.

                                          35
  For example, ribs 37 may be declined with respect to a longitudinal axis A of the
  housing 27.
  For example, the recesses 69a,69b may be decline with respect to a longitudinal axis B
5 of the upper and/or lower gate 64a,64b.

                                                   36
   CLAIMS:
   1.       A well bore control apparatus comprising:
            a housing having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a
 5 throughbore for receiving a tubular;
            a first tapered gate and a tapered second gate located within the housing, the
   first and second gates being adapted to engage with the guide element, wherein in use
   the first and second gates are moveable by an actuation force along the path defined
   by the guide element in a direction substantially transverse to the throughbore between
10 an open position of the througbore and a closed position of the throughbore; and
            a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in the closed position to
   seal the throughbore.
   2.       A well bore control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the well bore
15 control apparatus includes a second seal seat adapted for forming a second seal with
   the second gate in the closed position to seal the throughbore.
   3.       A well bore control apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the first and/or
   second seal minimises or prevents flow of fluids, such as well bore fluids, through the
20 throughbore.
   4.       A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   guide element is arranged, in use, to actuate the first and/or second gate into sealing
   engagement with the first respective first and/or second seal seat in the closed
25 position.
   5.       A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein in the
   closed position the first and/or second gate abuts the respective first and/or second
   seal seats to form the first and/or second seals.
30
   6.       A well bore control apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the
   throughbore is sealed when either the first or the second gate is in the closed position.
   7.       A well bore control apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the
35 throughbore is sealed when both the first and second gates are in the closed position.

                                               37
   8.       A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein yhe
   guide element causes displacement of the first and/or second gate, in a direction
   perpendicular to the substantially transverse movement of the first and/or second gate,
   when the first and/or second gate are moved from the open position to the closed
 5 position.
   9.       A well bore control apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the displacement of
   the first and/or second gate caused by the guide element is in a direction parallel to the
   throughbore.
10
   10.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the
   displacement of the first and/or second gate creates a deflection of material within the
   respective first and/or second seal seat, which energises the first and/or second seal.
15 11.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   guide element actuates the first and second gates so that the first and second gates
   provide the first and second seal independently from each other in the closed position.
   12.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein a taper
20 of the first and second gates allows for the first and second gates to co-act with each
   other, when the first and second gates are in the closed position.
   13.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   guide element is arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse direction to the
25 throughbore.
   14.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   guide element is inclined or declined with respect to a longitudinal axis of the housing.
30 15.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   guide element is arranged within the housing to define an acute angle to a longitudinal
   axis of the housing.
   16.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
35 guide element has a protrusion, recess and/or groove, such as an elongated

                                                38
   protrusion, recess and/or groove, arranged in the housing in a substantially transverse
   direction to the throughbore.
   17.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
 5 guide element has a plurality of protrusions, recesses and/or grooves, such as
   elongated protrusions, recesses and/or grooves, arranged in the housing in a
   substantially transverse direction to the throughbore.
   18.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
10 housing comprises a first and a second guide element, provided in the housing so as to
   oppose one another.
   19.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   first and/or second gate are adapted to engage with the guide element.
15
   20.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   first and/or second gate include an engagement element, arranged for mating,
   interoperating and/or co-acting with the guide element of the housing.
20 21.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the engagement
   element is arranged for mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the guide element
   of the housing.
   22.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the
25 engagement element has a further protrusion, recess and/or groove for mating,
   interoperating and/or co-acting the respective protrusion, recess and/or groove of the
   guide element.
   23.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 20 to 22, wherein the
30 engagement element has a plurality of further protrusions, recesses and/or grooves for
   mating, interoperating and/or co-acting with the respective plurality of protrusions,
   recesses and/or grooves of the guide element.
   24.      A well bore control apparatus according to any of claims 18 to 23, wherein the
35 first and/or second gate has a first and a second engagement element provided on

                                                   39
   opposing sides or surfaces of the first and/or second gate for mating, interoperating
   and/or co-acting with the respective first and second guide elements of the housing.
   25.      A well bore control apparatus according to any of claims 20 to 24, wherein the
 5 engagement element is inclined or declined with respect to a longitudinal axis of the
   first and/or second gate.
   26.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   first and/or second gate include a first and/or second metal gate.
10
   27.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   first and/or second seal seat include a first and/or second metal seal seat.
   28.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein in the
15 closed position, the first and/or second gate engage or abut the respective first and/or
   second seal seat to form a respective first and/or second metal to metal seal.
   29.      A well bore control apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein in the
   closed position, the first and/or second gate and/or the first and/or second engagement
20 element engage or abut the guide element and/or the housing to form a further first
   and/or second seal, such as a further first and/or second metal to metal seal, between
   the first and/or second gate and the guide element and/or the housing.
   30.      A wellbore control apparatus comprising:
25          a housing defining a throughbore for receiving a tubular;
            a first gate and a second gate being movable in a direction transverse to the
   throughbore between an open position of the througbore and a closed position of the
   throughbore, in use;
            a first actuator portion, the first actuator portion comprising a first gate actuator
30 coupled to the first gate for moving the first gate between the open and the closed
   position;
            a second actuator portion, the second actuator portion having a second gate
   actuator coupled to the second gate for moving the second gate between the open and
   the closed position; and

                                               40
            a coupling arrangement for securing and/or fastening the first and second
   actuator portions to one another.
   31.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 30, wherein the coupling
 5 arrangement is arranged to bias and/or pull the first and second portions to one
   another, such as in a longitudinal direction of the housing.
   32.      A well bore control apparatus according to claim 30 or 31, wherein the coupling
   arrangement biases and/or pulls the first and second actuator portions inwards and/or
10 towards the throughbore.
   33.      A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein
   in use, the first and second actuators are at least partially actuated outwards, when the
   first and second gates move from the open to the closed position of the throughbore.
15
   34.      A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein
   the first and second actuators exert or apply an outwards directed force and/or load,
   such as a force and/or load directed away from the troughbore, on the first and second
   actuator portions, in use.
20
   35.      A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 34, wherein
   in use, a force and/or load exerted by the coupling arrangement on the first and second
   actuator portions is in an opposite or reversed direction to a force and/or load exerted
   on the first and second actuator portions by the first and second actuators, when the
25 first and second gates are moved to the closed position.
   36.      A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 35, wherein
   in use, the coupling arrangement provides a load path for the forces and/or loads
   acting on the first and second actuator portions and/or the housing.
30
   37.      A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 36, wherein
   in use, the coupling arrangement minimises or prevents movement, such as outwards
   movement, of the first and second actuator portions, when the first and second gates
   are moved or actuated from the open position to the closed position of the throughbore
35 by the respective first and second actuators.

                                                  41
   38.     A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 37, wherein
   the coupling arrangement is provided external of the throughbore, extending in a
   longitudinal direction of the housing, first and/or second actuator portions.
 5
   39.     A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 38, wherein
   the coupling arrangement comprises one or more elongate member.
   40.     A well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 30 to 39, wherein
10 each of the one or more elongate members comprises a first portion and a second
   portion, extending from the respective first and/or second actuator portions.
   41.     A well bore control apparatus according to claim 40, wherein the coupling
   arrangement comprises one or more connection members adapted for connecting
15 together the respective first and second portions of the one or more elongate members.
   42.     A well bore control apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the one or more
   connection members are adapted to adjust and/or vary tension acting between
   respective first and second portions of the one or more elongate members and/or first
20 and second actuator portions.
   43.     A well bore control apparatus comprising:
           a housing having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a
   throughbore for receiving a tubular;
25         a first gate and a second gate located within the housing, the first and second
   gates being adapted to engage with the guide element, wherein in use the first and
   second gates are moveable along the path defined by the guide element in a direction
   substantially transverse to the throughbore between an open position of the througbore
   and a closed position of the throughbore; and
30         a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in the closed position to
   seal the throughbore.
   44.     A method for sealing a well bore, the method comprising:
           providing a well bore control apparatus according to claims 1 to 29 or claim 43;

                                                 42
           actuating or moving a first and/or second gate in a direction transverse to a
   throughbore from an open position of the throughbore to a closed position of the
   throughbore;
           engaging the first gate with a first seal seat; and
 5         forming a first seal between the first gate and the first seal seat to seal or close
   the throughbore.
   45.     A method for sealing a well bore according to claim 44, wherein the method
   includes actuating or moving the first gate along a path defined by a guide element
10 located in a housing of the well bore control apparatus.
   46.     A method for sealing a well bore according to claim 44 or 45, wherein the guide
   element actuates the first gate into sealing engagement with the first seal seat.
15 47.     A method for sealing a well bore according to any one of claims 44 to 46,
   wherein the method includes engaging the second gate with a second seal seat.
   48.     A method for sealing a well bore according to claim 47, wherein the method
   includes forming a second seal between the second gate and the second seal seat to
20 seal or close the throughbore.
   49.     A method for sealing a well bore according to any one of claims 45 to 48,
   wherein the method includes actuating or moving the second gate along the path
   defined by the guide element.
25
   50.     A method for sealing a well bore according to any one of claims 47 to 49 when
   dependent on claim 45, wherein the guide element actuates the second gate into
   sealing engagement with the second seal seat.
30 51.     A method for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus, the method comprising:
           providing a well bore control apparatus according to claims 30 to 42; and
           connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second actuator
   portions using a coupling arrangement.
35

                                               43
   52.     A method for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to claim 51, wherein the
   step of connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second actuator
   portions includes connecting together first and second portions of one or more elongate
 5 members provided on or extending from the respective first and second actuating
   portions, by one or more connection members.
   53.     A method for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to claim 51 or 52, wherein
10 the method includes minimising and/or restricting movement, such as outwards
   movement, of the first and second actuator portions, when the first and second gates
   are moved or actuated from the open position to the closed position of the throughbore
   by the respective first and second actuators.
15 54.     A method for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 51 to
   53, wherein a force and/or load exerted by the coupling arrangement on the first and
   second actuator portions is in an opposite or reversed direction to a force and/or load
   exerted on the first and second actuator portions by the first and second actuators,
20 when the first and second gates are moved or actuated from the open position to the
   closed position of the throughbore.
   55.     A method for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first and second
   actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to any one of claims 51 to
25 54, wherein the method includes adjusting and/or varying tension acting between
   respective first and second portions of the one or more elongate members and/or first
   and second actuator portions.
   56.     A coupling arrangement for connecting, securing and/or fastening together first
30 and second actuator portions of a well bore control apparatus according to claims 30 to
   42.
   57.     A well bore control apparatus comprising:
            a housing defining a throughbore, the throughbore adapted to receive a tubular,
35 first and second gates each having a shearing element, located within the housing, the

                                                44
   gates being moveable in use, in opposite directions transverse to the throughbore
   between a though bore open position and a throughbore closed position to shear a
   tubular located within the throughbore; and
           a first seal seat for forming a seal with a first gate in the throughbore closed
 5 position to seal the throughbore; the housing having first and second gate actuators
   coupled to the respective first and second gates for moving said first and second gates
   between the open and the closed position, the gate actuators each having a removable
   element for providing access to the interior of the well bore control apparatus.
10 58.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 57 wherein each actuator is substantially hollow
   and has an end plate coupled thereto, the end plate being independently removable.
   59.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 57 wherein a second seal seat is provided for
   forming a seal with said second gate.
15
   60.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 57 to 59 wherein said first and
   second gates are tapered so that, in use, when said gates move to a closed position
   the tapered gates slide over each other to cause displacement parallel to the
   throughbore and cause the surfaces of the gates adjacent the seals to abut the seals
20 and energise the sealing.
   61.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 57 to 60 wherein, said seals are
   metal seals and said gates are metal so that abutment of the gates with the seals
   provides a metal to metal seal when the apparatus is actuated and the gates are
25 closed.
   62.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 57 to 61 wherein said first and
   second gate actuators are lockable in an open position or in a closed position.
30 63.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 61 wherein said first and second gate actuators
   are lockable by providing a plurality of spring loaded dogs which are biased to engage
   receiving positions in said actuator, said dogs being movable hydraulically to a release
   position when it is desired to move said gates between said open and said closed
   position.
35

                                                 45
   64.     A well bore control apparatus comprising a housing defining a throughbore, the
   throughbore adapted to receive a tubular; first and second cutting gates located within
   the housing, the gates being moveable in use, in different directions transverse to the
   throughbore between a throughbore open position and a throughbore closed position to
 5 shear a tubular located within the throughbore and a first seal seat for forming a seal
   with one of the gates in the throughbore closed position to seal the throughbore; the
   housing having first and second gate actuators coupled to respective first and second
   gates for moving the first and second gates between a well bore open and a well bore
   closed position the gate actuators each having a removable element for providing
10 access to the interior of the well bore control apparatus, said removable element being
   coupled to a shear ram assembly.
   65.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 64 wherein said shear ram assembly comprises
   a drive portion, a travelling block portion, a cutting blade and a sealing gate.
15
   66.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 64 or 65 wherein each of said sealing gates is
   tapered.
   67.     Apparatus as claimed in any of claim 64 to 66 wherein said seals are metal
20 seals and said gates are metal, thus providing metal to metal seals when said well bore
   control apparatus is in the closed position.
   68.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 64 to 67 wherein said removable
   element is coupled to a respective actuator and to the ram shear assembly, said
25 element being free to move relative to the housing defining the free bore, said
   removable element being secured to a hollow piston actuator.
   69.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 64 to 67 wherein said removable
   element is coupled to said hollow piston actuated by means of a plurality of C-rings
30 which are disposed in spaced grooves between said removable element and said
   actuator.
   70.     Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 64 to 69 wherein said actuator or
   said removable element have a plurality of slots based around the periphery for
35 receiving elements for displacing the C-rings to free the removable element from the

                                                 46
   actuator and thus allow the removable element with associated shear ram assembly to
   be removed from the well bore control apparatus.
   71.      Apparatus as claimed in claim 70 wherein said slots are placed around the
 5 periphery for receiving said elements for displacing the C-rings.
   72.      Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 69 to 71 wherein a rotatable cam
   means may be provided with cam surfaces for engaging with the C-rings so that
   rotation of the cam carrying element causes the cam surfaces to abut the C-rings and
10 in response to the displacement of the cam surfaces the C-rings will be displaced into
   the grooves to allow the removable end element and associated shear ram assembly
   to be removed from the well bore control apparatus.
   73.      A mechanism for locking the position of a reciprocating piston with a hydraulic
15 cylinder, said mechanism comprising a housing defining a volume for receiving a
   piston, said piston being movable within the volume between first and second
   positions, such that in a first position it defines a first volume for extending the piston
   and in the second position it defines a second volume for retracting the piston, said
   piston and said housing having a sealing arrangement separating said first and second
20 volumes to create a third volume, said third volume being disposed between said
   piston seals and said third volume travelling with movement of said piston, each of said
   first, second and third volumes being coupled to hydraulic ports for receiving hydraulic
   fluid under pressure, said piston having spaced recesses for receiving at least one
   locking dog to lock said piston in said closed position or in an open position, said at
25 least one locking dog being normally biased to engage with the recess in said piston to
   lock said piston in a first or second position and said locking dog being displaceable by
   actuation of hydraulic pressure to said third volume to bias said locking dog against a
   spring load and permit pressure to be applied to said first volume or to said second
   volume for displacing said piston within said housing.
30
   74.      A mechanism as claimed in claim 73 wherein said housing is cylindrical and
   there are a plurality of spring biased locking dogs disposed equally around the
   periphery of the housing for engagement with respective recesses in said cylindrical
   piston.
35

                                               47
   75.     A further coupling arrangement for coupling a first body and a second body
   together, both bodies being circular and one body being denoted as the female body
   and the other body being denoted as the male body, the female body having an interior
   circular surface having a plurality of space grooves therein and the male body also
 5 having a circular surface of substantially the same diameter of the interior surface of
   said female body and having an equal number of similarly sized grooves therein, said
   grooves in said male and female bodies being equally spaced and being adapted to
   receive a C-ring, which are installed in the grooved of either said male or female body,
   a plurality of slots located in either of said male body or said female body which
10 intersect with the circumferential grooves, the slots being adapted to receive a plurality
   of elements for engaging with the C-rings in said circumferential grooves and
   displacing said C-rings to permit the male and female bodies to be disengaged.
   76.     A coupling arrangement as claimed in claim 75 wherein the axial slots are
15 replaced by shafts carrying cam surfaces for engagement with the grooves such that
   rotation of the shafts will cause the cam surfaces to displace the C-rings and allow the
   male and female elements to be disengaged.
   77.     A method of servicing the interior of a well bore control apparatus as claimed in
20 any one of claims 1 to 43 or claims 57 to 72, said method comprising the steps of
   removing an end cover of a well bore control apparatus, said end cover being coupled
   to a shear ram assembly, removing said end cover and said shear ram assembly to
   permit replacement of a cutting blade, a sealing gate or a valve seal.
25 78.     A method as claimed in claim 77 including decoupling the end cover from a
   hollow cylindrical actuator using wedges to displace C-rings.
   79.     A method as claimed in claim 77 or 78 the method including decoupling the end
   cover from a hollow cylindrical actuator using cam surfaces to displace locking C-rings.
30
   80.     A method of improving a metal to metal sealing arrangement using a well bore
   control apparatus comprising providing metal sealing gates with tapered surfaces, in
   response to closing said well bore control apparatus energising metal to metal sealing
   between a top metal seal and a first gate surface and between a bottom metal seal and
35 a gate surface such that the seals are in a state of high compressive preload.

                                                   48
   81.      A method as claimed in claim 80 including forming metal to metal seals by the
   seal seats and the housings.
 5 82.      A well bore control apparatus comprising:
            a housing having a guide element defining a path, the housing defining a
   throughbore for receiving a tubular;
            a first tapered gate and a tapered second gate located within the housing, the
   first and second gates being adapted to engage with the guide element, wherein in use
10 the first and second gates are moveable by an actuation force along the path defined
   by the guide element in a direction substantially transverse to the throughbore between
   an open position of the througbore and a closed position of the throughbore; and
            a first seal seat for forming a first seal with the first gate in the closed position to
   seal the throughbore, and when said first gate engages said seal seat sin a < p and
15 friction is limiting at the contact between said first gate and said seat and is limiting
   between said first gate and said guide element whereby in the absence of said
   actuation force said gate is held in place by friction.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
