ABSTRACT
The present application describes pharmaceutical formulations of bromocriptine mesylate and
methods of manufacturing and using such formulations.        The formulations are useful for
improving glycemic control in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

                       BROMOCRIPTINE FORMULATIONS
           The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
   number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2013256558, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
 5 reference.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
           This invention relates to pharmaceutical formulations and methods of their
   manufacture and use, and more particularly to formulations of bromocriptine mesylate that are
   useful for treating type 2 diabetes.
10                                         BACKGROUND
           Bromocriptine ((5'a)-2-bromo-12'-hydroxy-2'-(1-methylethyl)-5'-(2-methylpropyl)
   ergotaman-3',6',18-trione, CAS Registry No. 25614-03-3) is an ergot alkaloid which is a
   potent dopamine D2 receptor agonist. The compound has the following formula:
                                                       0
                                                 N CH,
                                         I
                                            Br
15         Solid oral dosage forms of bromocriptine are available as bromocriptine mesylate
   ((5'a)-2-bromo-12'-hydroxy-2'-(1-methylethyl)-5'-(2-methylpropyl)-ergotaman-3',6',     18-trione
   monomethanesulfonate salt, CAS Registry No. 22260-51-1) in a tablet containing up to 2.5 mg
   bromocriptine or in capsule form containing 5 mg bromocriptine. Bromocriptine is useful in
   the treatment of certain hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunctions and acromegaly, in the
20 prevention of physiological lactation, and in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and
   prevention of tolerance to Levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. In clinical trials, adverse
   effects included nausea, headache, dizziness, fatigue, lightheadedness, vomiting, abdominal
   cramps, nasal congestion, constipation, diarrheaand drowsiness. When bromocriptine is used
   as described above, prolactin is reduced to low levels throughout a 24 hour period.
25 U.S. Patents Nos. 5,344,832, 5,554,623 and 5,716,957 discuss a method for modifying and
   regulating lipid and glucose metabolism by administering a dopamine agonist,
                                                   I

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   e.g., bromocriptine, and/or a prolactin stimulator to reset hormonal timing in the neural
   centers of the brain to control insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia.
            U.S. Patents Nos. 5,468,755, 5,756,513 and 5,866,584 discuss a method to modify
   and regulate lipid and carbohydrate metabolism-generally to reduce obesity, insulin
 5 resistance, hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia, by administration of a dopamine agonist
   such as bromocriptine to inhibit prolactin over a limited period at a time of day to reset
   normal hormonal timing and control insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia.
            U.S. Patent No. 5,679,685 discusses accelerated release bromocriptine mesylate
   formulations for regulating prolactin levels that are abnormal during particular times during
10 the day.
            WO/2009/091576 discusses compositions for parenteral administration using
   dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine, that are described as being useful for treating
   metabolic-related conditions such as type 2 diabetes.
            CYCLOSET*, a tablet form of bromocriptine mesylate providing a 0.8 mg dose of
15 bromocriptine, is FDA approved for once-daily administration to improve glycemic control in
   adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus, at a dose of 2-6 tablets (1.6 to 4.8 mg total dose).
                                               SUMMARY
            In one aspect, the present application provides an oral dosage form, for example a
   tablet, which includes micronized bromocriptine mesylate and one or more excipients. The
20 micronized bromocriptine mesylate is present in an amount that provides a dose of at least
   about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per dosage form and has Dv90 of less than about 10 Pm. The
   dosage form provides a dissolution profile, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle
   Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about
   90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 30 minutes.
25          In a further aspect, the present application provides a further method for the
   manufacture of a bromocriptine mesylate tablet. The method includes processing
   bromocriptine mesylate to reduce the average particle size of the bromocriptine mesylate to
   provide bromocriptine mesylate that has a Dv90 of less than about 20 Pm and blending the
   processed bromocriptine mesylate with excipients to form a mixture wherein the
30 bromocriptine mesylate is substantially evenly distributed in the mixture. The mixture is
   compressed to form a tablet. The tablet includes bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
   provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and provides a dissolution profile,
                                                     2

   WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
   has been released at about 30 minutes.
            In another aspect, the present application provides a method for the manufacture of a
 5 bromocriptine mesylate tablet. The method includes determining that bromocriptine
   mesylate has a particle size distribution equivalent to a volume-based particle size
   distribution with a Dv90 of less than about 20 pm, blending the bromocriptine mesylate of
   determined particle size distribution with excipients to form a mixture wherein the
   bromocriptine mesylate is substantially evenly distributed in the mixture. The mixture is
10 compressed to form a tablet. The tablet includes bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
   provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and provides a dissolution profile,
   when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
   has been released at about 30 minutes.
15          In another aspect, the present application provides a method of treatment for
   improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient. The method includes administering
   a bromocriptine mesylate oral dosage form, for example a tablet, which includes micronized
   bromocriptine mesylate and one or more excipients. The micronized bromocriptine mesylate
   is present in an amount that provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per
20 dosage form and has Dv90 of less than about 10 pm. The dosage form provides a dissolution
   profile, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
   has been released at about 30 minutes.
            In another aspect, the present application provides a further method of treatment for
25 improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient. The method includes processing
   bromocriptine mesylate to reduce the average particle size of the bromocriptine mesylate to
   provide bromocriptine mesylate that has a Dv90 of less than about 20 Pm and blending the
   processed bromocriptine mesylate with excipients to form a mixture wherein the
   bromocriptine mesylate is substantially evenly distributed in the mixture. The mixture is
30 compressed to form a tablet. The tablet includes bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
   provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and provides a dissolution profile,
   when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
                                                     3

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   has been released at about 30 minutes. The tablet is provided for administration to the
   patient.
            In another aspect, the present application provides a further method of treatment for
   improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient. The method includes determining
 5 that bromocriptine mesylate has a particle size distribution equivalent to a volume-based
   particle size distribution with a Dv90 of less than about 20 pm, blending the bromocriptine
   mesylate of determined particle size distribution with excipients to form a mixture wherein
   the bromocriptine mesylate is substantially evenly distributed in the mixture. The mixture is
   compressed to form a tablet. The tablet includes bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
10 provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and provides a dissolution profile,
   when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
   has been released at about 30 minutes. The tablet is provided for administration to the
   patient.
15          The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages
   will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
                                   DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 is a plot showing the correlation between release of bromocriptine mesylate
20 at about 30 minutes for various batches of bromocriptine mesylate tablets and the Dv90 of the
   bromocriptine mesylate particles from which the batches were prepared.
            Figure 2 is a plot showing the correlation between release at about 30 minutes for
   various batches of bromocriptine mesylate tablets and the span of the particle size distribution
   of the bromocriptine mesylate particles from which the batches were prepared.
25          Figure 3A shows the volume-based particle size distribution measured for a batch of
   bromocriptine mesylate particles before micronization.
            Figure 3B shows the volume-based particle size distribution measured for a batch of
   bromocriptine mesylate particles after micronization.
            Figure 4 shows the cumulative volume-based particle size distribution for a batch of
30 micronized bromocriptine mesylate particles compared with batches of bromocriptine
   mesylate used in tablets which released about 96% of the bromocriptine at about 30 minutes
   (as compared to batches that released about 78% of the bromocriptine at about 30 minutes.
                                                     4

    WO 2013/165902                                                                 PCT/US2013/038655
            Figure 5 shows the volume-based particle size distribution measured for a batch of
   micronized bromocriptine mesylate particles used to manufacture bromocriptine mesylate
   tablets.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5          "About," as used herein, means approximately, e.g., plus or minus approximately ten
   percent of the indicated value.
            "Particle," as used herein, refers to an aggregated physical unit of a compound (e.g.,
   bromocriptine mesylate), i.e., a piece or a grain.
            "Particle size" as used herein, refers to the average linear dimension of a particle of a
10 compound, for example the diameter of a spherical particle of a compound.
            "Micronization," as used herein, refers to a process of reducing the average particle
   size of a solid material, typically to provide particles with a particle size of a few
   micrometers.
            "Micronized," as used herein, refers to a material that has been subjected to
15 micronization.
            The term "oral dosage form" refers to a drug dosage form that provides for absorption
   of a substantial amount of the drug through the gastric and/or intestinal mucosa of the
   gastrointestinal tract.
            The term "tablet" refers to an oral dosage form that comprises a mixture of active
20 substances and excipients, usually in powder form, pressed or compacted from a powder into
   a solid dose.
            "Particle size distribution" as used herein refers to the relative proportions of particles
   of a compound, such as bromocriptine mesylate, having a given particle size. While the
   particle size of a spherical object can be unambiguously and quantitatively defined by its
25 diameter, particles comprising an active pharmaceutical ingredient, such as bromocriptine
   mesylate for example, may be non-spherical and irregular in shape. There are several
   methods by which those of ordinary skill in the art measure and express the size of non
   spherical and irregular particles, such as measuring the size of such particles using laser
   diffractometry and expressing the size of such particles based on replacing a given particle
30 with an imaginary sphere that has one of a number of properties of the particle. Such
   properties can be selected from, for example, but are not limited to, the diameter of an
   imaginary sphere having the same volume of the particle being measured (volume-based
                                                      5

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   particle size), the diameter of an imaginary sphere having the same weight as the particle
   being measured (weight-based particle size), and the diameter of an imaginary sphere having
   the same surface area as the particle being measured (area-based particle size). Those having
   ordinary skill in the art are familiar with such methods, and the manner in which the results of
 5 such methods are expressed, and such methods can be applied to the embodiments disclosed
   herein without undue experimentation. The particle size distribution may be represented, for
   example, graphically as a plot. A common type of plot is a cumulative undersize plot which
   represents the fraction (e.g. by number, volume or mass) of particles that are smaller than the
   stated particle size.
10          The parameters Dv1O, Dv50, Dv90 and Dv99 represent the particle size at the 10%,
   50%, 90% and 99% points of the cumulative volume undersize particle size distribution.
   Thus, a "Dv1O" for a material represents a particle size wherein 10% of the volume of the
   material consists of particles having a particle size equal to the Dv1O value or smaller. A
   "Dv50" for a material represents a particle size wherein 50% of the volume of the material
15 consists of particles having a particle size equal to the Dv50 value or smaller. A "Dv90" for a
   material represents a particle size wherein 90% of the volume of the material consists of
   particles having a particle size equal to the Dv90 value or smaller. A "Dv99" for a material
   represents a particle size wherein 99% of the volume of the material consists of particles
   having a particle size equal to the Dv99 value or smaller.
20          The term "span" as used herein means a measure of the width of the distribution of
   given particle sizes of a given compound comprising an embodiment disclosed herein. In
   particular, the span of a given embodiment can be provided by measuring the size of the
   particles of a given compound using a volume-based particle size distribution method and
   applying the formula below, wherein Dv90, Dv10 and Dv50 are as hereinbefore defined:
                                                    Dv90 - Dv1O
                                 Span          =         Dv50
25          The term "treating" or "treatment" as used herein means the treating or treatment of a
   disease or medical condition (such as type 2 diabetes) in a patient, such as a mammal
   (particularly a human) that comprises ameliorating the disease or medical condition, i.e.,
   eliminating or causing regression of the disease or medical condition in a patient, suppressing
   the disease or medical condition, i.e., slowing or arresting the development of the disease or
30 medical condition in a patient; or alleviating the symptoms of the disease or medical
   condition in a patient.
                                                    6

    WO 2013/165902                                                                PCT/US2013/038655
            The present application describes improved bromocriptine mesylate formulations for
   improving glycemic control and treating type 2 diabetes, manufacturing methods for
   preparing such formulations, as well as methods of using such formulations. The
   formulations may contain bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that provides a dose of at
 5 least about 0.8 mg, for example about 0.8 mg, of bromocriptine. The bromocriptine mesylate
   may be present in the formulations as the sole pharmaceutically active ingredient. The
   bromocriptine mesylate formulations may be oral dosage form, e.g., tablets. The
   bromocriptine mesylate may substantially evenly distributed in the tablets.
            In one aspect, the present application describes that in the preparation of
10 bromocriptine mesylate formulations for improving glycemic control and treating type 2
   diabetes, it has been discovered that controlling the size of the bromocriptine mesylate
   particles in the formulations may affect the potency and safety profile of the bromocriptine
   mesylate. The present application therefore provides methods for manufacturing
   bromocriptine tablets comprising bromocriptine mesylate particles having a controlled
15 particle size, which provides a more consistent release of bromocriptine mesylate from the
   formulation, which release allows the formulation to be therapeutically effective for treating
   type 2 diabetes.
            In some aspects, the present application provides methods for providing
   bromocriptine mesylate tablets with uniform content, such that the bromocriptine mesylate is
20 uniformly distributed within an ingredient blend that is compressed to form tablets, and each
   tablet contains substantially the same amount of bromocriptine mesylate and, as a result,
   provides substantially the same dose of bromocriptine mesylate to the patient. This property
   is desirable so that bromocriptine tablets provide consistent efficacy, by ensuring that each
   tablet provides an efficacious amount of the drug, but also does not provide too high a dose of
25 the drug which may lead to side effects.
            The mode of action involved in using bromocriptine to improve glycemic control and
   treating type 2 diabetes presents challenges in developing and manufacturing formulations
   that are suitable for this purpose. Many drugs work best when the pharmacological action of
   the drug (e.g., blocking a receptor or inhibiting an enzyme) is maintained throughout the
30 period of treatment. While not being limited by theory, results from preclinical studies
   suggest that appropriately timed daily administration of bromocriptine in the morning
   normalizes aberrant hypothalamic neurotransmitter activities that induce, potentiate, and
   maintain the insulin-resistant, glucose-intolerant state.
                                                    7

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
             Thus, it is believed that a formulation of bromocriptine mesylate manufactured to
   improve glycemic control and treat type 2 diabetes should provide a consistent, rapid and
   substantially complete release of the drug from the formulation to provide the optimum
   pharmacokinetic profile for treating diabetes. For example, while not being limited by
 5 theory, formulation of bromocriptine mesylate for improving glycemic control should be
   formulated in a tablet that provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine and
   which releases at least about 80%, or preferably at least about 90%, or at least about 95%, of
   the drug within about 30 minutes. Drug release can be measured, for example, using the
   methods and apparatus described in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia (USP), General Chapter 711,
10 Dissolution,   3 4 th Edition, 2011. A suitable method for measuring release of bromocriptine
   mesylate from the tablets described in the present application can use USP Apparatus Type 2
   Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid. The dissolution experiment
   is typically carried out at about 37 'C. Unless a product can be manufactured that
   consistently provides the specified dose and release profile, the resulting product may be less
15 effective for improving glycemic control and treating type 2 diabetes and also may result in
   increased incidence of side-effects.
             An accelerated release formulation of bromocriptine mesylate was described in U.S.
   Patent No. 5,679,685, which discusses that accelerated release from bromocriptine mesylate
   formulations could be achieved by formulating bromocriptine, an antioxidant, a filler, a
20 disintegrating agent, a water scavenging agent and a lubricant. In the preferred formulation,
   the bromocriptine formulation included bromocriptine mesylate together with citric acid, corn
   starch, lactose filler and silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate. Use of anhydrous lactose
   filler is preferred to minimize moisture content. Citric acid is an antioxidant. Corn starch is a
   disintegrating agent. Colloidal silicone dioxide acts as a water-scavenger. Magnesium
25 stearate acts as a lubricant. While the '685 patent describes the preparation of rapid release
   bromocriptine mesylate on a laboratory scale, difficulties have been encountered, however, in
   manufacturing such a formulation on a large scale suitable for commercial use because a high
   degree of variation in the dissolution and rate of release of bromocriptine mesylate from the
   finished drug product, and problems in achieving acceptable product uniformity were found.
30           One formulation and process for the large scale preparation of bromocriptine mesylate
   tablets is described in Example 1. The process for preparing the tablets on an 80 kg batch
   scale involved geometrical mixing of the ingredients in several sub-batches followed by final
                                                      8

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   mixing in a 5 ft V-blender followed by discharge into a stainless steel container which was
   used to feed a 38-station tablet press.
            For manufacturing process validation purposes, three 80 kg batches of tablets were
   prepared using the method described in Example 1. As described in Example 2, both the
 5 dissolution (drug release) properties and the tablet content uniformity were measured for
   samples of tablets from each of the batches. All of the batches showed acceptable drug
   release, where at least about 97% of the drug had been released at about 30 minutes as
   measured using the USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at 37 'C. However, the batches did not show acceptable content uniformity
10 as two of the three batches exhibited a relative standard deviation (RSD) bromocriptine
   content greater than the pass criteria. In addition, a trend was observed for all three batches
   in which the highest active ingredient content was found in tablets prepared towards the end
   of the compression run, which suggested that the non-uniformity might be accounted for by
   settling of the ingredients in the mixture after blending but before tablet compression was
15 carried out.
           A modified process was therefore developed and was carried out as described in
   Example 3. The tablets contain bromocriptine mesylate (0.945 mg/tablet) together with corn
   starch (9.00 mg/tablet) as a disintegrant, granular anhydrous citric acid (1.35 mg/tablet),
   anhydrous lactose (77.58 mg/tablet), colloidal silicon dioxide (0.45 mg/tablet) and
20 magnesium stearate (0.675 mg/tablet). The tablets were prepared as described for the tablets
   of Example 1, except that the method for the final blending and tableting was modified.
   Based on the reasoning that the problem in achieving content uniformity when preparing a
   formulation as described in Example 1 was likely due to settling of ingredients after
   performing the final blending but before tableting, for example as a result of the transfer of
25 blend from the blender to immediate storage containers prior to compression of the blended
   mixture, the method of Example 3 was modified to allow transfer of the blended mixture
   directly from the blending vessel to the tablet press for compression of the blended mixture.
   This was achieved by modifying the manufacturing process so that the final stage of blending
   was carried out in an in-bin hopper where the lubrication and final blending is performed.
30 Following blending, the lubricated blend is transferred directly from the in-bin hopper to the
   tablet press using a valved transfer chute to avoid settling of the material prior to tablet
   compression.
                                                    9

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
           Validation of the manufacturing method described in Example 3 for bromocriptine
   mesylate tablet manufacture was performed as described in Example 4. Three 80 kg batches
   of tablets were prepared using this method. Both the dissolution (drug release) properties and
   the tablet content uniformity were measured for samples of tablets from each of the batches.
 5 All of the batches showed acceptable drug release, with an average of at least about 95% of
   the drug released at about 30 minutes as measured using the USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle
   Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 'C. In addition, all of the
   batches showed acceptable tablet content uniformity, with RSD values that were significantly
   lower than the RSD values quoted in Example 2 being observed. Therefore, a substantial
10 improvement in tablet content uniformity was achieved by the modification to the process
   involving carrying out the blending in an in-bin hopper and transferring the blended material
   directly for tableting via a valved transfer chute.
            Based on the results of Example 4, a manufacturing process carried out as described
   in Example 3 is preferred for manufacturing bromocriptine mesylate tablets suitable for
15 treating type 2 diabetes to provide tablets with good content uniformity. Following blending
   of the formulation ingredients, compression of the mixture is carried out directly
           Although the method of Example 3 gave bromocriptine mesylate tablets with good
   content uniformity, it was unexpectedly found that tablets made using the method exhibited
   poor reproducibility of drug release.
20          The problem of achieving consistent, rapid drug release from a bromocriptine
   mesylate formulation prepared for improving glycemic control in the treatment of type 2
   diabetes is illustrated by the data described in Example 5. Although the validation batches
   described in Example 4 all had shown an acceptable drug release profile (i.e., wherein an
   average of about 95% or greater of the drug release has been released at about 30 minutes),
25 dissolution results obtained with further batches of bromocriptine mesylate tablets
   manufactured using the formulation and manufacturing process of Example 3 showed
   substantial variability in the percentage of drug released at 30 minutes (as determined using
   USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at
   37 C). Although certain batches had an acceptable release profile (i.e., about 90% or greater
3o had been released at about 30 minutes), several batches had a significantly lower and
   unacceptable degree of release. See Table 7.
           As described in Example 6, an extensive investigation was conducted to determine the
   cause of the observed variability. This investigation included an evaluation of the analytical
                                                    10

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   method used to determine the amount of bromocriptine dissolved, a review of the raw
   materials, equipment, operators, batch records, and batch data, and the effect of variations in
   the blend time, tablet hardness, feeder speed, lactose particle size, reduced magnesium
   stearate concentration, removal of silicon dioxide, and reduced or increased corn starch
 5 concentration. In addition, batches of bromocriptine mesylate used in tablet batches having
   different release profiles were compared using differential scanning calorimetry to investigate
   whether a change in form of the bromocriptine might be responsible for the variable drug
   release. None of these investigations succeeded in identifying a reason for the variable drug
   release properties that were observed.
10         Ultimately, the possible role of the particle size of bromocriptine mesylate used in the
   manufacturing process was investigated. The bromocriptine mesylate used for the
   preparation of the tablets was prepared by a process in which the bromocriptine mesylate
   crystals were generated by addition of methanesulfonic acid at a late stage of the production
   process. Although this process produces high quality bromocriptine mesylate, it does not
15 control the particle size distribution. From measurements of the particle size distributions of
   the bromocriptine mesylate batches used to prepare the various batches of tablets, it was
   found that the bromocriptine mesylate batches used to prepare the tablets had a variety of
   particle size distributions.
            It was also found that there was a correlation between the particle size distribution and
20 whether or not the tablets manufactured using various bromocriptine mesylate batches
   provided release of drug in the manner required for effectively improving glycemic control in
   the treatment of type 2 diabetes, as summarized in Table 9. In particular, it was found that
   preparing bromocriptine mesylate tablets from bromocriptine mesylate having a Dv90 of less
   than about 20 pm consistently provided a drug release profile in which about 90% or more of
25 the bromocriptine mesylate had been released at about 30 minutes. In contrast, bromocriptine
   mesylate tablets prepared from bromocriptine mesylate having a Dv90 of more than about
   20 pm failed to consistently provide a drug release profile in which at least 90 % of the
   bromocriptine mesylate had been released at about 30 minutes. The correlation between
   bromocriptine mesylate particle size and dissolution is shown in graphical form in Figure 1.
30          It was also found that there was a correlation between the span of the volume-based
   particle size distribution and drug release. Preparing bromocriptine mesylate tablets from
   bromocriptine mesylate with a particle-size distribution having a span of less than about 2.0
   consistently provided a drug release profile in which 90% or more of the drug had been
                                                    11

    WO 2013/165902                                                             PCT/US2013/038655
   released at about 30 minutes, whereas bromocriptine mesylate tablets prepared from
   bromocriptine mesylate having a volume-based particle distribution having a span of greater
   than about 2 did not consistently provide a drug release profile wherein at least about 90 % of
   the drug had been release at about 30 minutes. The correlation between bromocriptine
 5 mesylate particle-size distribution span and dissolution is shown in graphical form in Figure
   2.
           Based on the foregoing results, it has therefore been discovered that the manufacture
   of bromocriptine mesylate tables for improving glycemic control in patients with type 2
   diabetes can be improved significantly by carefully controlling the size of the bromocriptine
10 mesylate particles used in manufacturing the tablets. By controlling the particle size, tablets
   can be manufactured which consistently provide a release profile wherein about 90% or
   greater of the drug has been released at about 30 minutes thereby ensuring that the product is
   produced with a consistently acceptable potency and safety profile for improving glycemic
   control and treating type 2 diabetes. This is particularly useful when a manufacturing method
15 is employed that achieves improved content uniformity by employing direct transfer of the
   bromocriptine formulation mixture for tableting after blending without allowing time for the
   ingredients to settle in the blended mixture Advantages include the ability to reproducibly
   produce drug product with a defined drug content and drug release profile to meet quality
   standards mandated by drug regulatory authorities such as the Food and Drug Administration.
20         Based on the foregoing studies, the inventors have found methods that, by using
   bromocriptine mesylate with controlled particle size as well as other methods described
   herein, bromocriptine mesylate tablets that are suitable for improving type 2 diabetes can be
   prepared with consistently good drug release properties as well as with good content
   uniformity.
25         One method that has been found useful is to control the particle size by use of
   micronized bromocriptine mesylate. In one aspect, it has been discovered that a superior
   bromocriptine mesylate formulation for improving glycemic control and treating type 2
   diabetes can be prepared by using micronized bromocriptine mesylate for manufacturing
   bromocriptine mesylate tablets. The micronized bromocriptine mesylate may have a Dv90 of
30 less than about 10 pm. In some embodiments, the micronized bromocriptine has a Dv90 of
   less than about 5 pm.
                                                   12

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
             In some embodiments, the micronized bromocriptine mesylate has a Dv99 of less than
   about 15 pm. In some embodiments, the micronized bromocriptine mesylate has a Dv99 of
   less than about 10 pm.
             In some embodiments, the micronized bromocriptine mesylate has a volume-based
 5 particle size distribution wherein not more than about 20% of the bromocriptine mesylate has
   a particle size of less than about 1 pm.
             In some embodiments, the micronized bromocriptine mesylate has a volume-based
   particle size with a Dv99 of less than about 15 pm; a Dv90 of less than about 10 pm; and
   wherein not more than about 20% of the bromocriptine mesylate has a particle size of less
10 than about 1 pm.
             The bromocriptine mesylate tablet prepared using micronized bromocriptine is
   formulated to provide a dissolution profile such that, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2
   paddle method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 0 C, the tablet has
   released at least about 80%, preferably at leastabout 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate at
15 about 30 minutes. Preferably, the bromocriptine mesylate tablet provides a dissolution
   profile such that the tablet has released at least about 95 % of the bromocriptine mesylate at
   about 30 minutes. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate tablet provides a
   dissolution profile such that the tablet has released at least about 80%, and preferably at least
   about 9 0%, of the bromocriptine mesylate at about 20 minutes.
20          Although the bromocriptine mesylate tablet is formulated to provide a dissolution
   profile such that, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 paddle method at 50 rpm in 500 mL
   of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 0C, the tablet has released at least about 80%,
   preferably about 90%, or most preferably about 95%, of the bromocriptine mesylate at about
   30 minutes, extremely rapid release of bromocriptine mesylate from the formulation may not
25 be desired, since a formulation that releases bromocriptine extremely rapidly may result in an
   undesired spike in in vivo drug levels and may not be suitable for treating type 2 diabetes, or
   give rise to side-effects. Therefore, in some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate tablet
   prepared using micronized bromocriptine mesylate is formulated to provide a dissolution
   profile such that, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 paddle method at 50 rpm in 500 mL
30 of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 0C, not more than about 75%, not more than about
   6 0 % , or  not more than about 50% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about
   7 minutes, and/or not more than about 90%, not more than about 85%, not more than about
   8 0 % , or,  not more than about 75% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about
                                                     13

    WO 2013/165902                                                                 PCT/US2013/038655
    10 minutes. The release profiles may be achieved by producing bromocriptine mesylate
   tablets using bromocriptine mesylate having a particular particle size distribution so that the
   finished drug product consistently provides a dissolution profile that is suitable for treatment
   of type 2 diabetes.
 5          The bromocriptine mesylate tablet prepared using micronized bromocriptine mesylate
   is formulated to provide a pharmacokinetic profile wherein the time to maximum plasma
   concentration (Tmax) following administration of six bromocriptine mesylate tablets, each
   providing a dose of about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine, is between about 30 and about 60
   minutes, such as about 50 minutes, e.g. about 53 minutes, when the tablets are administered
10 under fasting conditions, or between about 90 and about 120 minutes, when the tablets are
   administered under high fat fed conditions, to adult subjects.
            The bromocriptine mesylate tablet may contain an amount of bromocriptine mesylate
   that provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine mesylate per tablet.
            The formulations disclosed herein may further include citric acid. Citric acid may act
15 as an antioxidant to improve the stability of the bromocriptine, but also may enhance
   bromocriptine absorption. Other antioxidants which may be used include. but are not limited
   to, vitamins A, C, E, beta-carotene, zinc, selenium, glutathione, coenzyme Q-10 and
   echinacea. The formulations disclosed herein may also include one or more disintegrating
   agent. Examples of suitable disintegrating agents include, but are not limited to, corn starch,
20 sodium starch glycolate, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, calcium carboxymethyl cellulose,
   croscarmellose sodium, crospovidone, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methyl cellulose,
   microcrystalline cellulose, lower alkyl-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose, starch,
   pregelatinised starch and sodium alginate. The formulations disclosed herein may also
   include one or more diluents. Examples of suitable diluents include, but are not limited to,
25 lactose (e.g., monohydrate, spray-dried monohydrate, anhydrous and the like), mannitol,
   xylitol, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, microcrystalline cellulose, starch and dibasic calcium
   phosphate dihydrate. The formulations disclosed herein may also include one or more
   lubricants. Examples of suitable lubricants include, but are not limited to, magnesium
   stearate, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium stearate, zinc stearate, stearic acid, talc, glyceryl
3o behenate, polyethylene glycol, polyethylene oxide polymers, sodium lauryl sulfate,
   magnesium lauryl sulfate, sodium oleate, sodium stearyl fumarate, DL-leucine, colloidal
   silica, and others as known in the art. In some embodiments, the formulation used is
   prepared substantially as described in Example 9 using micronized bromocriptine mesylate.
                                                    14

    WO 2013/165902                                                                PCT/US2013/038655
            Micronization provides for reduction of particle size to provide particles that are on
   the order of microns in diameter as measured by methods known to those of ordinary skill in
   the art, such as the volume distribution method. Methods of micronizing bromocriptine
   mesylate to afford formulations disclosed herein include those that are known to those of
 5 ordinary skill in the art and include, but are not limited to, milling, grinding, and the use of
   supercritical fluids. For example, one method of micronization (the "rapid expansion of
   supercritical solutions" or RESS method), material is dissolved in supercritical fluid under
   high temperature and pressure and the resulting solution is expanded through a nozzle to form
   small particles.
10          Micronization by jet milling is a method that can be used to produce particles in the
   lower micrometer range, and is the preferred method for micronizing bromocriptine mesylate.
   In brief, the raw material with a maximum size of about 1 to 2 mm is introduced into the
   milling chamber via a gas stream. Within the milling chamber a circular gas stream
   accelerates the particles which are micronized by collision with each other or with the wall of
15 the chamber. The ground particles are removed from the milling chamber by the gas stream,
   while the larger ones stay inside due to centrifugal forces. In the preferred process for
   micronizing bromocriptine, micronization is performed using a jet mill under a nitrogen
   atmosphere at a controlled temperature of about 0 'C.
            Example 7 describes the preparation of batches of micronized bromocriptine mesylate
20 and characterization of their properties. As shown in Table 10, micronization produced
   bromocriptine material with similar particle size distributions after micronization even when
   bromocriptine mesylate batches with rather different materials were used as the starting
   material. Exemplary particle size distributions for a batch of bromocriptine mesylate before
   and after micronization are shown in Figures 3A and 3B.
25          Example 8 illustrates the improved and consistent drug release profiles that can be
   achieved by employing micronized bromocriptine mesylate to prepare bromocriptine
   mesylate tablets. Tablets prepared with micronized bromocriptine mesylate had significantly
   improved drug release (98% of the bromocriptine released by 30 minutes) compared to
   tablets prepared from the same batch of bromocriptine mesylate without micronization
30 (which released only 69% of the bromocriptine mesylate at 30 minutes).
            The relationship between particle size distribution and drug release/dissolution for
   bromocriptine mesylate is further illustrated in Figure 4. Figure 4 shows plots of the
   cumulative volume-based particle size distribution for three batches of bromocriptine
                                                    15

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   mesylate: a batch of bromocriptine mesylate which was used in a bromocriptine mesylate
   tablet formulation (prepared as described in Example 3) which had released 96% of the
   bromocriptine mesylate at 30 minutes when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method
   at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C; a batch of bromocriptine
 5 mesylate which was used in a bromocriptine mesylate tablet formulation (prepared as
   described in Example 3) which had released about 78% of the bromocriptine mesylate at 30
   minutes when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C; and a batch of micronized of bromocriptine mesylate.
            In another aspect, it has been discovered that a method of manufacturing a
10 bromocriptine mesylate formulation for improving glycemic control in treating type 2
   diabetes using a manufacturing process that selectively controls bromocriptine mesylate
   particle size, for example by employing particle size measurement and/or processing
   bromocriptine mesylate to reduce the particle size, to prepare bromocriptine mesylate tablets
   that, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
15 hydrochloric acid at about 37'C consistently provide a drug release profile wherein at least
   90%, and preferably at least 95%, of the drug is released within about 30 minutes. The result
   is achieved by controlling the particle size distribution of the bromocriptine mesylate to be
   within the particle size range that has been found to result in bromocriptine tablets having the
   desired drug release profile.
20          In some embodiments, particle size measurement is employed to select bromocriptine
   mesylate having a particle size distribution that consistently provides a drug release profile
   wherein at least about 80%, or preferably least about 90%, or at least about 95%, of the drug
   is released within about 30 minutes. The method comprises determining that the
   bromocriptine mesylate has a particle size distribution which provides the requisite drug
25 release profile and subsequently blending the bromocriptine mesylate of determined particle
   size distribution with excipients to form a mixture wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is
   substantially evenly distributed in the mixture, and then compressing the mixture to form one
   or more tablets. The tablet may comprise an amount of bromocriptine mesylate that provides
   a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine. The tablet may provide a dissolution
30 profile, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
   hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 80%, or preferably at least about 90%
   or about 9 5%, of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 30 minutes. The
   method preferably comprises determining that the bromocriptine mesylate has a Dv90 of less
                                                    16

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   than about 20 pm. It is not essential to determine the volume-based particle size distribution
   per se since other methods of measuring the particle size distribution (such as number-based
   or mass-based methods) could be used. The method should, however, comprise determining
   that the bromocriptine mesylate particle size distribution is equivalent to a Dv90 of less than
 5 about 20 pm.
           In some embodiments, particle size measurement is employed to select bromocriptine
   mesylate having a particle size distribution that consistently provides a drug release profile
   wherein at least about 80%, and preferably at least about 90%, of the bromocriptine mesylate
   has been released at about 20 minutes when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method
10 at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C.
           In some embodiments, particle size measurement is employed to select bromocriptine
   mesylate having a particle size distribution that consistently provides a drug release profile
   wherein not more than about 75%, not more than about 60%, or not more than about 50% of
   the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 7 minutes when tested in USP
15 Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37
   'C, and/or not more than about 90%, not more than about 85%, not more than about 80%, or
   not more than about 75%, of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about
    10 minutes when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of
   0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C.
20         In some embodiments, particle size measurement is employed to select bromocriptine
   mesylate having a particle size distribution that consistently provides a tablet with a
   pharmacokinetic profile wherein the time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) following
   administration of six bromocriptine mesylate tablets, each providing a dose of about 0.8 mg
   of bromocriptine, is between about 30 and about 60 minutes, such as about 50 minutes, e.g.
25 about 53 minutes, when the tablets are administered under fasting conditions, or between
   about 90 and about 120 minutes, when the tablets are administered under high fat fed
   conditions, to adult subjects.
           The size of the bromocriptine mesylate particles and the particle size distribution may
   be determined by any of several methods. Methods useful for analyzing particle size within
30 the range of about 10 nm to 100 pm, include, but are not limited to: laser diffraction particle
   size analysis, mechanical sieving, optical microscopy, ultracentrifugation, sedimentation, air
   permeability, electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and Coulter Counter
   techniques. Methods for determining particle size are described, for example, in Martin et
                                                   17

   WO 2013/165902                                                                 PCT/US2013/038655
   al., Physical Pharmacy, 3rd Ed., Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia (1983); and Merkus et al.,
   Particle Size Measurements, Fundamentals, Practice, Quality, Springer (2009).
            Optical microscopy is useful for particle size measurement in the range of about
   0.2 pm to about 100 pm. For optical microscopy, an emulsion or suspension, diluted or
 5 undiluted, is mounted on a slide or ruled cell. The microscope eyepiece is fitted with a
   micrometer by which the size of the particles may be estimated.
            Mechanical sieving uses a series of standard sieves calibrated by the National Bureau
   of Standards. Mechanical sieves may be used for screening material as fine as 44 pm (No.
   325 sieve). Sieves manufactured by photo-etching and electroforming are available with
10 apertures from 90 pm to 5 pm.
            Measurements obtained using laser diffraction are preferred. These techniques
   operate on the principle that different sizes of particles produce a different diffraction pattern,
   which depends on the size of the particle. In laser particle size analysis, laser light which has
   been passed through a sample of particles is scattered onto a Fourier lens that focuses the
15 scattered light onto a detector array. An inversion algorithm is used to infer the particle size
   distribution from the collected diffracted light data.
            Laser diffraction measurement of particle size can use a dry method (wherein a
   suspension of the compound/salt in an airflow crosses the laser beam) or a wet method
   (wherein a suspension of the compound/salt in a liquid dispersing medium, such as isooctane
20 or about 0.05% lecithin in isooctane or (e.g., if compound is soluble in isooctane) 0.1%
   Tween 80 in water, crosses the laser beam. With laser diffraction, particle size is preferably
   calculated using the Fraunhofer calculation; and/or preferably a Sympatec or Malvern
   Mastersizer apparatus is used for measurement.
            The particle size distribution ranges defined herein are based upon measurements
25 made using technology and instruments using laser particle size analysis using the
   instruments and methods developed by SYMPATEC GmbH, in particular Sympatec HELOS
   which can provide particle size analysis of dry and wet samples, i.e., of powders,
   suspensions, emulsions or sprays and is built to the specifications of ISO 13320 "Particle size
   analysis - laser diffraction methods."
30         Notwithstanding expected variability in the precise values for particle size and
   particle size distribution measurements obtained using different instruments and analytical
   methods, the claims are not intended to be limited by or to a particular method of particle-size
   measurement or analysis.
                                                    18

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
             In some embodiments, the particle size of the bromocriptine mesylate used to make
   bromocriptine mesylate tablet is controlled by including in the manufacturing process a step
   of processing bromocriptine mesylate to reduce its average particle size so as to provide
   bromocriptine mesylate that has a Dv90 of less than about 20 pm. The bromocriptine
 5 mesylate used as a starting material may have a Dv90 of more than about 20 Pm and the
   processing may include reducing the size of bromocriptine mesylate particles (e.g., by
   grinding, milling, or micronization) or sieving to remove larger particles. After the
   bromocriptine mesylate particle size has been reduced, the bromocriptine mesylate is blended
   with excipients to form a mixture wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is evenly distributed in
10 the mixture, and then the mixture is compressed to form one or more tablets. The tablet may
   comprise an amount of bromocriptine mesylate that provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg
   of bromocriptine. The tablet may provide a dissolution profile, when tested in USP
   Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about
   37 'C, wherein at least about 80%, preferably at least about 90%, or at least about 95%, of the
15 bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 30 minutes. In some embodiments, the
   tablet may provide a dissolution profile, when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle
   Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about
   8 0 % , or at least about 9 0%, of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 30
   minutes. In some embodiments, the tablet may provide a dissolution profile, when tested in
20 USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at
   about 37 'C, wherein not more than about 75%, not more than about 60%, or not more than
   about 50% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 7 minutes, and/or not
   more than about 90%, not more than about 85%, not more than about 80% or, not more than
   about 75% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 10 minutes.
25           In some embodiments, the tablet may have a pharmacokinetic profile wherein the
   time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) following administration of six bromocriptine
   mesylate tablets, each providing a dose of about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine, is between about
   30 and about 60 minutes, such as about 50 minutes, e.g. about 53 minutes, when the tablets
   are administered under fasting conditions, or between about 90 and about 120 minutes, when
30 the tablets are administered under high fat fed conditions, to adult subjects.
             In some embodiments of the methods described above, the bromocriptine mesylate
   used for manufacturing the tablets is selected or processed to have a Dv90 of less than about
   20 pm, less than about 18 pm, less than about 16 pm, less than about 15 pm, less than about
                                                     19

    WO 2013/165902                                                                PCT/US2013/038655
    10 pm, or less than about 5 pm. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for
   manufacturing the tablets is selected or processed to have a Dv50 of less than about 10 Pm,
   less than about 8 pm, less than about 7 pm, or less than about 5 pm. In some embodiments,
   the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets is selected or processed to
 5 have a Dv1O of less than about 5 pm, less than about 3 pm, or less than about 2 Pm. In some
   embodiments of the methods described above, the bromocriptine mesylate used for
   manufacturing the tablets is selected or processed to have a volume-based particle size
   distribution such that not more than about 40%, not more than about 20%, not more than 10%
   or not more than about 5% of the bromocriptine mesylate has a particle size of less than about
10  1Pm.
            In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets
   is selected or processed to have a particle size such that the particle size distribution has a
   Dv90 of about 20 pm or lower, a Dv50 of about 10 pm or lower and a Dv1O of about 5 pm or
   lower. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets
15 is selected or processed to have a particle size such that the particle size distribution has a
   Dv90 of about 15 pm or lower, a Dv50 of about 8 pm or lower and a Dv1O of about 3 pm or
   lower. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets
   is selected or processed to have a particle size such that the particle size distribution has a
   Dv90 of about 10 pm or lower, a Dv50 of about 5 pm or lower and a Dv1O of about 3 pm or
20 lower. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets
   is selected or processed to have a particle size such that the particle size distribution has a
   Dv90 of about 8 pm or lower, a Dv50 of about 5 pm or lower and a Dv1O of about 3 pm or
   lower. In some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets
   is selected or processed to have a particle size such that the particle size distribution has a
25 Dv90 of about 5 pm or lower, a Dv50 of about 3 pm or lower and a Dv1O of about 1 pm or
   lower.
            In some embodiments bromocriptine mesylate used for manufacturing the tablets is
   selected or processed to have a volume-based particle size such that the particle size span is
   about 3 or lower, about 2.5 or lower, or about 2 or lower.
30          In addition, in some embodiments, particle size measurement as described above and
   processing to reduce the average particle size may be combined to provide additional control
   in preparing bromocriptine mesylate tablets. For example, following processing to reduce the
   average particle size, particle size measurement may be performed to ensure that the particle
                                                   20

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   size distribution is within a range that provides consistent drug release. In addition,
   micronization may be employed as a technique to reduce the particle size to prepare a
   bromocriptine mesylate tablet that comprises micronized bromocriptine as described in
   greater detail above.
 5         The bromocriptine mesylate tablet prepared by the methods described herein may be
   formulated with citric acid. The formulation may also include a disintegrating agent. In
   some embodiments, the disintegrating agent is corn starch. In some embodiments, the
   formulation further comprises lactose, colloidal silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate. In
   some embodiments, the bromocriptine mesylate tablets are prepared substantially as
10 described in Example 1.
           As discussed above, the data provided in Example 8 (Table 11) illustrate the effect of
   processing bromocriptine mesylate to improve and provide consistent dissolution properties
   and show that a significantly greater degree of drug release (at 30 minutes) was obtained
   from tablets manufactured using micronized bromocriptine mesylate as compared to the same
15 batch of bromocriptine mesylate without micronization. The data also demonstrate the
   effectiveness of controlling particle size and employing processing to reduce the
   bromocriptine mesylate particle size for consistently producing a drug product with superior
   release properties.
           The bromocriptine mesylate tablets described herein, and bromocriptine mesylate
20 tablets prepared by the methods herein, may be used to treat type 2 diabetes by improving
   glycemic control in an individual with type 2 diabetes. The tablet is administered within
   about two hours after waking in the morning with food. The initial dose is about 0.8 mg of
   bromocriptine daily, which is increased weekly by one tablet until a maximal tolerated daily
   dose of about 1.6 to about 4.8 mg (2 to 6 tablets) is achieved.
25
                                                   21

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
                                              EXAMPLES
            The inventors' discoveries are illustrated by the following examples, which are not
   intended to limit the scope of the claims. Other variations or embodiments of the invention
   will also be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the above descriptions and the
 5 following Examples.
   Example 1. Preparation of a Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet Formulation.
            Bromocriptine mesylate tablets are prepared having the ingredients listed in Table 1
   below.
   Table 1. Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet Formulation.
                        Ingredient                  Quantity (mg/tablet)   Quantity (kg/batch)
              Bromocriptine mesylate USP                    0.945                  0.84
                     Corn starch NF                          9.00                  8.00
           Granular anhydrous citric acid USP                1.35                  1.20
                  Anhydrous lactose NF                      77.58                 69.00
              Colloidal silicon dioxide NF                   0.45                  0.40
                 Magnesium Stearate NF                      0.675                  0.60
                      Total Weight                           90.0                  80.0
10          The tablets were prepared by geometrical mixing via trituration of bromocriptine
   mesylate (Euticals S.p.a., Milan) with corn starch as four triturations in a PK BlendMasterTM
   V-Blender. Sequentially, two sub-loads of granular anhydrous citric acid and corn starch
   were mixed in a PK BlendMasterTM. These two sub-loads were each divided into two equal
   sub-loads, yielding a total of four sub-loads. Each of the four bromocriptine mesylate
15 triturations was then mixed with adjusted amounts of anhydrous lactose, corn starch and one
   citric acid/starch corn sub-load in a Fielder PMA 65 mixer to form four premixes [A-D]. A
   2.0 kg quantity was removed after Premix A for mixing in a PK BlendMasterTM with colloidal
   silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate to form a lubricant premix. The four premixes were
   then loaded in sequential order, with the lubricant premix loaded in between premixes B and
20 C, into a 5 ft3 V-blender where lubrication/final blending was performed. The lubricated
   blend was then discharged into a stainless steel container which was used to feed a 38-station
   HATA tablet press. The tablets were compressed using the tablet press.
                                                    22

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   Example 2. Validation Studies For Tablets Prepared According to Example 1.
            Three batches were prepared using the method described in Example 1 to validate the
   manufacturing method.
            Drug release profiles for samples of the tablets were measured using the USP
 5 Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 'C.
   Table 2 below shows the drug release profiles obtained for tablets from each batch.
   Table 2. Drug Release from Three Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablets
   Prepared as Described in Example 1.
                    Batch No.       Time (minutes)         Average %
                                                        Release (n=12)
                         1                 10                 78
                                           20                 96
                                           30                 99
                                           40                 100
                         2                 10                 72
                                           20                 91
                                           30                 97
                                           40                 98
                         3                 10                 81
                                           20                 95
                                           30                 100
                                           40                 101
            In addition, blend uniformity and tablet content uniformity were assessed.
10          Blend uniformity was assessed by assaying the content of the powdered formulation
   at ten locations in the blender following final blending but before tableting. All of the
   batches met the criteria for blend uniformity.
            Tablet content uniformity was evaluated on a sample of 60 tablets from each batch.
   The tablets were assayed to assess, inter alia, the amount of bromocriptine present in the
15 tablet relative to the label amount of 0.8 mg of bromocriptine. In addition, the mean and
   relative standard deviation (RSD) bromocriptine mesylate content was calculated for each
   batch. The content uniformity results obtained are summarized in Table 3. The tablet content
                                                   23

   WO 2013/165902                                                                PCT/US2013/038655
   uniformity requirements were not met for batches 2 and 3. In addition, a trend was observed
   for all three batches in which the highest active ingredient content was found in tablets
   prepared towards the end of the compression run.
   Table 3. Content Uniformity Evaluation for Three Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate
 5 Tablets Prepared as Described in Example 1 (n = 60 tablets for each batch).
     Batch No.         Bromocriptine Content             RSD         RSD Pass          Pass/Fail
                               (% of label)                           Criteriont
                         Mean               Range
          1               101.5          95.4-108.9      3.13            4.52            Pass
          2               103.0          96.7-113.2      4.03            4.01            Fail
          3               100.5          92.2-113.1      5.05            4.85            Fail
   t The RSD pass criteria vary according to the bromocriptine content and are calculated using
   Bergum's method. Meeting the criterion provides 90% assurance that at least 95% of future
   samples from the same population would pass the USP content uniformity test
   Example 3. Modified Procedure for the Preparation of a Bromocriptine Mesylate
10 Tablet Formulation.
            Bromocriptine mesylate tablets were prepared having the ingredients listed in Table 4
   below.
   Table 4. Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet Formulation.
                        Ingredient                  Quantity (mg/tablet)    Quantity (kg/batch)
              Bromocriptine mesylate USP                   0.945                   0.84
                     Corn starch NF                         9.00                    8.00
           Granular anhydrous citric acid USP               1.35                    1.20
                 Anhydrous lactose NF                      77.58                   69.00
               Colloidal silicon dioxide NF                 0.45                   0.40
                 Magnesium Stearate NF                     0.675                   0.60
                      Total Weight                          90.0                    80.0
            The tablets were prepared by geometrical mixing via trituration of bromocriptine
15 mesylate (Euticals S.p.a., Milan) with corn starch as four triturations in a PK BlendMasterTM
   V-Blender. Sequentially, two sub-loads of granular anhydrous citric acid and corn starch
                                                    24

    WO 2013/165902                                                             PCT/US2013/038655
   were mixed in a PK BlendMasterTM. These two sub-loads were each divided into two equal
   sub-loads, yielding a total of four sub-loads. Each of the four bromocriptine mesylate
   triturations was then mixed with adjusted amounts of anhydrous lactose, corn starch and one
   citric acid/starch corn sub-load in a Fielder PMA 65 mixer to form four premixes [A-D]. A
 5 2.0 kg quantity is removed after Premix A for mixing in a PK BlendMasterTM with colloidal
   silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate to form a lubricant premix. The four premixes were
   then loaded in sequential order, with the lubricant premix loaded in between premixes B and
   C, into an 8 ft3 in-bin hopper; where lubrication/final blending was performed. The
   lubricated blend was then transferred from the in-bin hopper to a tablet press using a valved
10 transfer chute, and then compressed using a 38-station Hata tablet press.
   Example 4. Validation Studies For Tablets Prepared According to Example 3.
            To validate the manufacturing method, three batches were prepared using the method
   described in Example 3.
            Drug release profiles for samples of the tablets were measured using the USP
15 Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 'C.
   Table 5 below shows the drug release profiles obtained for tablets from each batch.
                                                   25

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   Table 5. Drug Release from Three Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablets
   Prepared as Described in Example 3.
                    Batch No.        Time (minutes)       Average %
                                                        Release (n=12)
                         1                 10                 91
                                           20                 101
                                           30                 104
                                           40                 103
                         2                 10                 84
                                           20                 100
                                           30                 103
                                           40                 104
                         3                 10                 83
                                           20                 95
                                           30                 97
                                           40                 98
            In addition, blend uniformity and tablet content uniformity were assessed.
            Blend uniformity was assessed by assaying the content of the powdered formulation
 5 at ten locations in the blender following final blending but before tableting. All of the
   batches met the criteria for blend uniformity.
            Tablet content uniformity was evaluated on a sample of 60 tablets from each batch.
   The tablets were assayed to assess, inter alia, the amount of bromocriptine present in the
   tablet relative to the label amount of 0.8 mg of bromocriptine. In addition, the mean and
10 relative standard deviation (RSD) bromocriptine mesylate content was calculated for each
   batch. The content uniformity results obtained are summarized in Table 6. In this case all
   three batches met the tablet content uniformity requirements, with RSD values that were
   significantly lower than the RSD values quoted in Example 2 being observed.
   Table 6. Content Uniformity Evaluation for Three Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate
15 Tablets Prepared as Described in Example 4 (n = 60 tablets for each batch).
     Batch No.          Bromocriptine Content            RSD         RSD Pass        Pass/Fail
                              (% of label)                           Criteriont
                                                   26

   WO 2013/165902                                                                  PCT/US2013/038655
                          Mean             Range
          1               102.5         98.6-110.4          1.83           4.18            Pass
         2                101.5         96.9-107.0         2.24            4.52            Pass
         3                100.8         95.7-105.9          1.83           4.75            Pass
   i The RSD pass criteria vary according to the bromocriptine content and are calculated using
   Bergum's method. Meeting the criterion provides 90% assurance that at least 95% of future
   samples from the same population would pass the USP content uniformity test
   Example 5. Evaluation of Drug Release from Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet
 5 Preparations.
            Over a period of time, a number of batches of bromocriptine mesylate tablets were
   prepared by methods substantially similar to the method described in Example 1 using
   micronized bromocriptine mesylate purchased from Euticals, S.p.a. Drug release from each
   batch of tablets was measured using USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in
10 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 'C at 30 minutes. The result of the drug release
   measurements, showing the percentage of drug released at about 30 minutes for each batch
   (entries 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 16, 17, 20 and 22 are for single tablet batches, other entries represent
   data from multiple tablet batches) is summarized in Table 7 below.
   Table 7. Dissolution Results Showing Percentage of Bromocriptine Mesylate Released
15 at 30 Minutes From Different Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablets Prepared by
   Methods Substantially Similar to Example 1.
                            Table Entry         Average Percentage Released at
                                                 about 30 minutes (n = 6 to 24)
                                   1                             96
                                   2                             93
                                   3                             93
                                   4                             93
                                   5                             91
                                   6                             91
                                   7                             94
                                   8                             95
                                   9                             96
                                                     27

  WO 2013/165902                                                             PCT/US2013/038655
                         Table Entry       Average Percentage Released at
                                            about 30 minutes (n  = 6 to 24)
                              10                          97
                              11                          98
                              12                          98
                              13                          99
                              14                          104
                              15                          89
                              16                          91
                              17                          91
                              18                          92
                              19                          92
                              20                          87
                              21                          87
                              22                          87
                              23                          89
                              24                          78
                              25                          89
                              26                          82
                              27                          84
                              28                          68
                              29                          72
                              30                          76
  Example 6. Investigation of the Cause of Variable Drug Release from Bromocriptine
  Mesylate Tablet Preparations.
          An investigation was conducted into potential reasons for the variable drug release
  from different bromocriptine mesylate tablet preparations. The investigation covered
5 analytical as well as manufacturing sources for the unexpected drug release results.
          A number of variables in the HPLC analytical method used to measure the extent of
  drug release were investigated. Although it was found that minor improvements to reduce
  variability could be achieved, for example by using low actinic glassware, a chilled HPLC
                                                28

    WO 2013/165902                                                              PCT/US2013/038655
   autosampler, and disposable plastic syringes, the variability could not be attributed to
   laboratory causes alone.
           Investigation of the manufacturing process included numerous aspects of the
   production process, including the raw materials, equipment, operators, batch records, and
 5 batch data without identifying a root cause. As a result, smaller scale studies were designed
   to evaluate formulation variables and key operational variables of the production process. A
   summary of these studies and results obtained are provided in Table 8.
   Table 8. Summary of Process Investigations Conducted to Investigate the Cause of
   Variable Drug Release from Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet Preparations.
   Study Description                                 Dissolution Results
   Low lubrication blend time                        Comparable to Control
   High lubrication blend time                       Comparable to Control
   Low tablet hardness                               Comparable to Control
   High tablet hardness                              Comparable to Control
   Low feeder speed                                  Comparable to Control
   High feeder speed                                 Comparable to Control
   Small particle size lactose                       Comparable to Control
   Reduced magnesium stearate concentration          Comparable to Control
   Removal of silicon dioxide                        Comparable to Control
   Reduced corn starch concentration                 Comparable to Control
   Increased corn starch concentration               Comparable to Control
10         Finally, the possible role of the particle size of bromocriptine mesylate used in the
   manufacturing process was investigated. The volume-based particle size distribution for the
   bromocriptine mesylate used in preparing the tablet batches was measured by laser
   diffractometry using a Sympatec HELOS Laser Diffractometer. The results are shown in
   Table 9, which lists the bromocriptine particle size distribution that was determined for the
15 various batches of bromocriptine mesylate and the percentage drug that was released by 30
   minutes determined for each of the batches.
    Table 9. Dissolution Results Showing the Relationship Between the Percentage of
   Bromocriptine Mesylate Released at 30 Minutes Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate
                                                    29

WO 2013/165902                                                        PCT/US2013/038655
Tablets and the Particle Size Distributions of the Bromocriptine Mesylate Used for
Tablet Preparation.
Table Entry      Dv1O            Dv50            Dv90         Span        Average
                                                                         Percentage
                                                                         Released at
                                                                          about 30
                                                                        minutes (n =
                                                                          6 to 24)
      1            1.5            4.2             12.6         2.7           96
     2             1.5            4.2             12.6         2.7           93
     3             1.8            5.3             14.4         2.4           93
     4             1.6            4.6             12.3         2.3           93
     5             1.8            5.3             14.4         2.4           91
     6             2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           91
     7             2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           94
     8             2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           95
     9             2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           96
     10            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           97
     11            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           98
     12            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           98
     13            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           99
     14            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           104
     15            3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           89
     16            3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           91
     17            2.4            7.2             15.3         1.8           91
     18            3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           92
     19            3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           92
    20             3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           87
    21             3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           87
    22             3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           87
    23             3.1            10.4           28.1          2.4           89
    24             3.9            13.7           57.4          3.9           78
                                            30

    WO 2013/165902                                                                 PCT/US2013/038655
     Table Entry         Dv1O             Dv50             Dv90           Span          Average
                                                                                       Percentage
                                                                                      Released at
                                                                                        about 30
                                                                                      minutes (n =
                                                                                        6 to 24)
          25               3.1             10.4            28.1            2.4             89
          26               3.1             10.4            28.1            2.4             82
          27               3.1             10.4            28.1            2.4             84
          28               2.3              7.9            25.8            3.0             68
          29               2.3              7.9            25.8            3.0             72
          30               2.3              7.9            25.8            3.0             76
             The results show a correlation between the drug release and the particle size
    distribution of the bromocriptine mesylate that was used to prepare the tablet batch. Tablets
   prepared using bromocriptine mesylate particles where the Dv90 was less than about 20 Pm
    consistently provided a release profile wherein 90% or greater of the drug had been released
 5  at about 30 minutes. In contrast, material with a particle size distribution greater than about
    20 pm provided variable or low drug release. The correlation between percent drug release
    and Dv90 is plotted in Figure 1.
             In addition, the particle-size distribution span was also correlated with drug release.
    The correlation between percent drug release and the particle-size distribution span is plotted
10  in Figure 2.
   Example 7. Micronization of Bromocriptine Mesylate
             Bulk batches of bromocriptine mesylate were micronized using a jet mill under a
    nitrogen atmosphere at a controlled temperature of 0 0C. The volume particle size
    distribution was measured using a Sympatec HELOS H1013 Laser Diffractometer. Table 10
15  shows the bromocriptine mesylate particle size distribution measured for each batch of
   bromocriptine mesylate before and after micronization demonstrating that micronization of
   bulk materials having quite different particle size distributions before micronization resulted
    in micronized materials with similar particle size distributions. Figure 3A shows the volume
   based particle size distribution measured for the material of Table 6 Entry 1 before
                                                       31

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   micronization and Figure 3B shows the volume-based particle size distribution measured for
   the same material after micronization.
            The impurity profile (percentage of major impurities), X-ray powder diffraction
   pattern, I.R. spectra, and differential scanning calorimetry thermograms of the bromocriptine
 5 mesylate batches before and after micronization were also investigated. No significant
   differences were observed, suggesting that the micronization process does not modify the
   purity or solid state form of the bromocriptine mesylate.
    Table 10. Bromocriptine Mesylate Particle Size Distributions Before and After
   Micronization.
      Table               Before Micronization                      After Micronization
      Entry        % <1Im       %<10pLm       %<15ptm       % <1Im       %<10pLm      %<15ptm
         1             1            19            29            8            97          100
         2             1            55            77            6            98          100
         3             1            31            45            9            98          100
10  Example 8. Effect of Micronizing Bromocriptine Mesylate to Improve Drug Release
   Properties.
            The data provided in Table 11 illustrate the effect of processing bromocriptine
   mesylate to improve and provide consistent dissolution properties. Bromocriptine mesylate
   tablets were prepared substantially according to the method described in Example 3 above,
15 wherein said methods include geometric dilution and diffusional blending, and the dissolution
   of the tablets (n=12) was measured tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm
   in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 0 C. The tablets prepared were identical except
   that one batch of tablets (Table Entry 1) was prepared using (non-micronized) bromocriptine
   mesylate as obtained from the active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturer (Euticals S.p.a.,
20 Milan), whereas another batch of tablets was prepared using the same batch of bromocriptine
   mesylate but which was further processed by micronization prior to being used for tablet
   manufacture (Table Entry 2). The data that tablets prepared with micronized bromocriptine
   mesylate had significantly improved drug release (at 30 minutes) compared to tablets
   prepared from the same batch of bromocriptine mesylate without micronization.
                                                     32

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
     Table 11. Dissolution Results Showing Percentage of Bromocriptine Mesylate Released
   at 30 Minutes from Different Batches of Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablets.
      Table     Bromocriptine Used         Particle Size Distribution    Percent bromocriptine
      Entry                                Dv1O       Dv50         Dv90  released at 30 minutes
                                           (tpm)       (tpm)       ( pm) (n=12 Tablets)
         1      Bromocriptine                1.4        5.8         26.7              69
                mesylate without
                micronization
         2      Micronized                  0.7          1.5         3.1              98
                bromocriptine
                mesylate
   Example 9. Procedure for the Preparation of a Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet
   Formulation Using Micronized Bromocriptine Mesylate.
 5          Bromocriptine mesylate tablets were prepared having the ingredients listed in Table
    12 below.
   Table 12. Bromocriptine Mesylate Tablet Formulation.
                       Ingredient                  Quantity (mg/tablet)     Quantity (kg/batch)
           Micronized bromocriptine mesylate
                                                             0.945                 0.84
                           USP
                     Corn starch NF                           9.00                  8.00
           Granular anhydrous citric acid USP                 1.35                  1.20
                 Anhydrous lactose NF                        77.58                 69.00
              Colloidal silicon dioxide NF                    0.45                 0.40
                Magnesium Stearate NF                        0.675                 0.60
                      Total Weight                            90.0                  80.0
            Bulk batches of bromocriptine mesylate were micronized using a jet mill under a
   nitrogen atmosphere at a controlled temperature of 0 'C. The volume particle size
10 distribution was measured using a Sympatec HELOS H1013 Laser Diffractometer. The
   tablets were prepared by geometrical mixing via trituration of micronized bromocriptine
   mesylate (Euticals S.p.a., Milan) with corn starch as four triturations in a PK BlendMasterTM
   V-Blender. Sequentially, two sub-loads of granular anhydrous citric acid and corn starch
                                                   33

    WO 2013/165902                                                                PCT/US2013/038655
   were mixed in a PK BlendMasterTM. These two sub-loads were each divided into two equal
   sub-loads, yielding a total of four sub-loads. Each of the four bromocriptine mesylate
   triturations was then mixed with adjusted amounts of anhydrous lactose, corn starch and one
   citric acid/starch corn sub-load in a Fielder PMA 65 mixer to form four premixes [A-D]. A
 5 2.0 kg quantity was removed after Premix A for mixing in a PK BlendMasterTM with colloidal
   silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate to form a lubricant premix. The four premixes were
   then loaded in sequential order, with the lubricant premix loaded in between premixes B and
   C, into an 8 ft3 in-bin hopper; where lubrication/final blending is performed. The lubricated
   blend was then transferred from the in-bin hopper to a tablet press using a valved transfer
10 chute, and then compressed using a 38-station Hata tablet press.
   Example 10. Validation Studies For Tablets Prepared According to Example 9.
            To validate the manufacturing method, three batches were prepared using
   substantially the method described in Example 9. Batches of micronized bromocriptine
   mesylate were obtained from Euticals S.p.a., Milan.
15          Representative data obtained for tablets prepared from one of the batches is
   summarized below.
            First, Table 13 summarizes the particle size distribution for the micronized
   bromocriptine mesylate. The particle size distribution for this batch is shown in Figure 5.
     Table 13. Bromocriptine Mesylate Particle Size Distributions for Micronized
20 Bromocriptine Mesylate used to Manufacture Tablets as Described in Example 9.
                              Volume-based Particle Size Distribution
             % < 1 pLm                     % < 10 ptm                        % < 15 ptm
                  9                            98                               100
            Drug release profiles for samples of the tablets were measured using the USP
   Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at 37 0C
   Table 14 below shows the drug release profiles obtained for tablets from a representative
   batch.
                                                   34

    WO 2013/165902                                                               PCT/US2013/038655
   Table 14. Drug Release from a Representative Batch of Bromocriptine Mesylate
   Tablets Prepared as Described in Example 9.
                               Time (minutes)       Average % Release
                                                          (n= 12)
                                      4                      18
                                      7                     34
                                     10                     56
                                     13                     76
                                     16                      88
                                     19                     94
                                     30                     98
           In addition, blend uniformity and tablet content uniformity were assessed.
           Blend uniformity was assessed by assaying the content of the powdered formulation
 5 at twelve locations in the blender following final blending but before tableting. The batch
   met criteria for blend uniformity.
           Tablet content uniformity was evaluated by taking samples at 20 locations throughout
   the compression process. Three tablets from each time point were then assessed for
   bromocriptine content. The content uniformity results obtained are summarized in Table 15.
10 Table 15. Content Uniformity Evaluation for a Representative Batch of Bromocriptine
   Mesylate Tablets Prepared as Described in Example 9 (n=60 tablets for each batch).
               Bromocriptine Content                       RSD%                     Pass/Fail
                     (% of label)
          Mean                     Range
           101.4                 96.6-103.6                   1.2                     Pass
           Each reference cited in the text of the present application is hereby incorporated by
   reference in its entirety. A number of embodiments of the invention have been described.
   Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing
15 from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the
   scope of the following claims.
                                                   35

WO 2013/165902                                                           PCT/US2013/038655
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.   A tablet comprising micronized bromocriptine mesylate and one or more excipients;
             wherein the micronized bromocriptine mesylate is present in an amount that
     provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per tablet;
             wherein the micronized bromocriptine mesylate has Dv90 of less than about
      10 pm;
             and wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile, when tested in USP
     Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid at
     about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate has been
     released at about 30 minutes.
2.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is present in an
     amount that provides a dose of about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per tablet.
3.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the bromocryptine mesylate has a particle
     size distribution with a Dv90 of less than about 5 pm.
4.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the bromocryptine mesylate has a particle
     size distribution with a Dv99 of less than about 15 pm.
5.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the bromocryptine mesylate has a volume
     based particle size distribution wherein not more than about 20% of the bromocriptine
     mesylate has a particle size of less than about 1 pm.
6.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 95% of the bromocriptine
     mesylate has been released at about 30 minutes.
7.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine
     mesylate has been released at about 20 minutes.
                                             36

WO 2013/165902                                                             PCT/US2013/038655
8.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein not more than about 50 % of the
     bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 7 minutes and not more than about
     75% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 10 minutes.
9.   The tablet according to claim 1, wherein the tablet provides a pharmacokinetic profile
     wherein the time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) following administration
     of six of the tablets to adult subjects is between about 30 and 60 minutes when the
     tablets are administered under fasting conditions, or between about 90 and about 120
     minutes, when the tablets are administered under high fat fed conditions.
10.  A method for the manufacture of a bromocriptine mesylate tablet comprising:
             processing bromocriptine mesylate to reduce the average particle size of the
     bromocriptine mesylate to provide bromocriptine mesylate that has a Dv90 of less
     than about 20 pm;
             blending the processed bromocriptine mesylate with excipients to form a
     mixture wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is substantially evenly distributed in the
     mixture, and
             compressing the mixture to form a tablet;
                      wherein the tablet comprises bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
             provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and
                      wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile, when tested in USP
             Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric
             acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
             has been released at about 30 minutes.
11.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is present in
     an amount that provides a dose of about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per tablet.
12.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate has Dv90 of
     less than about 10 pm after the processing.
13.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate has a Dv90 of
     less than about 5 pm after the processing.
                                               37

WO 2013/165902                                                            PCT/US2013/038655
14.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the processing comprises micronizing the
     bromocriptine mesylate.
15.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 95 % of the bromocriptine
     mesylate has been released at about 30 minutes.
16.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine
     mesylate has been released at about 20 minutes.
17.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile,
     when tested in USP Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N
     hydrochloric acid at about 37 'C, wherein not more than about 50 % of the
     bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 7 minutes and not more than about
     75% of the bromocriptine mesylate has been released at about 10 minutes.
18.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the tablet provides a pharmacokinetic
     profile wherein the time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) following
     administration of six of the tablets to adult subjects is between about 30 and about 60
     minutes when the tablets are administered under fasting conditions, or between about
     90 and about 120 minutes when the tablets are administered under high fat fed
     conditions.
19.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the mixture is transferred from a blending
     apparatus via a transfer unit to a tableting apparatus for compressing the mixture to
     form tablets that have a substantially uniform bromocriptine mesylate content.
20.  A method for the manufacture of a bromocriptine mesylate tablet comprising:
             determining that bromocriptine mesylate has a particle size distribution
     equivalent to a volume-based particle size distribution with a Dv90 of less than about
     20 pm;
                                               38

WO 2013/165902                                                            PCT/US2013/038655
             blending the bromocriptine mesylate of determined particle size distribution
     with excipients to form a mixture wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is substantially
     evenly distributed in the mixture, and
             compressing the mixture to form a tablet;
                     wherein the tablet comprises bromocriptine mesylate in an amount that
             provides a dose of at least about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine; and
                     wherein the tablet provides a dissolution profile, when tested in USP
             Apparatus Type 2 Paddle Method at 50 rpm in 500 mL of 0.1 N hydrochloric
             acid at about 37 'C, wherein at least about 90 % of the bromocriptine mesylate
             has been released at about 30 minutes.
21.  The method according to claim 20, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate is present in
     an amount that provides a dose of about 0.8 mg of bromocriptine per tablet.
22.  The method according to claim 20, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate has a particle
     size distribution wherein with a Dv90 of less than about 10 pm.
23.  The method according to claim 20, wherein the bromocriptine mesylate has a particle
     size distribution with a Dv90 of less than about 5 pm.
24.  The method according to claim 20, further comprising processing the bromocriptine
     mesylate prior to said determining to reduce the particle size of the bromocriptine
     mesylate to provide the bromocriptine mesylate that has a Dv90 of less than about
     20 pm.
25.  The method according to claim 24, wherein the processing comprises micronizing the
     bromocriptine mesylate.
26.  The method according to claim 20, wherein the mixture is transferred from a blending
     apparatus via a transfer unit to a tableting apparatus for compressing the mixture to
     form tablets that have a substantially uniform bromocriptine mesylate content.
27.  The method of treatment for improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient
     comprising administering to the patient a bromocriptine mesylate tablet according to
     claim 1.
                                               39

WO 2013/165902                                                           PCT/US2013/038655
28.  A method of treatment for improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient
     comprising preparing at least one bromocriptine tablet by a method according to claim
      10, and providing the bromocriptine mesylate tablet for administration to the patient.
29.  A method of treatment for improving glycemic control in a type 2 diabetes patient
     comprising preparing at least one bromocriptine tablet by a method according to claim
     20, and providing the bromocriptine mesylate tablet for administration to the patient.
                                           40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
