ABSTRACT:
A method for obtaining information encoded on an electrochemical test strip is provided. The
test strip has two electrodes disposed within a sample space and the information is encoded on
the test strip prior to introduction of liquid sample. The method includes the step of introducing
sample to the sample space so that the sample is in contact with the two electrodes within the
sample space. In another step a value is determined that is representative of the double layer
capacitance of the test strip and/or the equivalent capacitance of the test strip. The determined
value is then translated into information reflecting a characteristic of the test strip prior to
introduction of sample.
                                                   22

                       Analyte Detection Meter and Associated Method of Use
Background of the Invention
         This application relates to methods for encoding information on an electrochemical test
strip as well as methods for, and meters capable of, obtaining information encoded on a test strip.
         Small disposable electrochemical test strips are frequently used in the monitoring of
blood glucose by diabetics. Such test strips can also be employed in the detection of other
physiological chemicals of interest and substances of abuse. In general, the test strip comprises at
least two electrodes and appropriate reagents for the test to be performed, and is manufactured as
a single use, disposable element. The test strip is combined with a sample such as blood, saliva
or urine before or after insertion in a reusable meter, which contains the mechanisms for
detecting and processing an electrochemical signal from the test strip into an indication of the
presence/absence or quantity of the analyte determined by the test strip.
         Electrochemical test meters are known in the art, for example for the determination of
blood glucose levels. See, for example, US Patents Nos. US Patents Nos. 7,771,583; 7,645,374;
7,601,249; 7,547,382; 7,517,439; 7,501,052; 7,344,626; 7,090,764; 6,662,439; 6,284,125;
6,071,391; 5,942,102; 5,3 52,2,35 1; and 5,243,516, all of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
         Test strips often have information associated with them, such as, inter alia, calibration
information, regional or country coding, product identification, customer identification, assay
type (e.g. glucose test strip or ketone test strip), and date of manufacture. PCT Patent Application
Ser. No. PCT/USI1/51983 and US Patent Nos. 7,713,392; 7,695,608; 7,645,421; 7,625,473;
7,601,299; and 4,714,874, which are incorporated herein by reference, provide strips with this,
and other types of information, encoded onto the test strip and associated meters and methods for
decoding the information from the strip. The challenge for manufacturers is how to encode
information on a test strip and how to obtain the coded information in a manner that is cost
effective, reliable, safe, and robust. The present invention provides systems and methods to solve
these difficulties.
Summary of the Invention
                                                     1

In a first aspect the present invention consists in an analyte determination system comprising a
test strip having two electrodes disposed within a sample space and a meter having electrical
contacts for electrical connection with the electrodes of the test strip, wherein:
the test strip comprises characteristic information encoded thereon, the characteristic information
reflecting a characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
the meter comprises:
         (a)     communications means for communicating a result to a user; and
         (b)     a processor and instructions for performing, while the electrodes of the test strip
are in electrical contact with the meter, the steps of:
                  (i) making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance
         on the test strip when a sample is present within the sample space;
                  (ii) making a determination of an analyte in the sample; and
                  (iii) translating the determined double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance
         into information reflecting the characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of
         sample.
Preferably the meter further comprises instructions for performing, while the electrodes of the
test strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step of determining whether sample
completely covers the electrodes within the sample space.
Preferably the instructions for making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent
capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)     switching off the applied potential and optionally reapplying a second potential;
         (iii)   observing current generated and determining from the observed current a double
                 layer charging or discharging at the electrodes; and
         (iv)    observing a voltage change after the applied potential is switched off, and
                                                     2

        (v)    determining the double layer capacitance of the test strip from the measured
               double layer charging or discharging and the observed voltage change.
Preferably the instructions for making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent
capacitance comprise the steps of:
        (i)    applying an alternating voltage having a selected amplitude and a selected
               frequency between the electrodes of the test strip;
        (ii)   measuring the current generated from the application of potential in step (I); and
        (iii)  determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the current measured
               in step (ii), wherein the equivalent capacitance includes both the double layer
               capacitance and the Faradaic capacitance of the test strip.
Preferably the instructions for making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent
capacitance comprise the steps of:
        (i)    applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip thereby
               charging the test strip, wherein a double layer capacitance is created within the
               test strip and a voltage is generated by charging the test strip;
        (ii)   converting the voltage created by charging the test strip to an oscillating voltage
               having a period proportional to the created double layer capacitance; and
        (iii)  observing the oscillating voltage; and
        (iv)   determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the observed
               oscillating voltage.
Preferably the information reflecting a characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of
sample is selected from the group consisting of: calibration information, regional or country
coding, product identification, customer identification, assay type, and date of manufacture.
Preferably the test strip measures glucose in a sample.
                                                   3

Preferably the meter further comprises instructions for performing, while the electrodes of the
test strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step of (iv) performing an action based upon
the translated characteristic information.
Preferably the processor performs the instructions of step (iv) after step (ii).
Preferably the processor performs the instructions of step (iv) prior to step (ii).
Preferably the action performed in step (iv) is selected from the group consisting of: modifying
the result of the determination of the analyte in the sample performed in step (ii); and generating
and displaying an error message to a user.
In another aspect the present invention consists in a method of using the analyte determination
system of any of claims 1 to 11, comprising the steps of:
         (i) electrically connecting the electrodes of the test strip with the electrical contacts of the
meter;
         (ii) making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance on the
test strip when a sample is present within the sample space; and
         (iii) translating the determined double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance into
information reflecting the characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
                                                    4

wherein steps (ii) and (iii) are performed while (i) the electrodes of the test strip are electrically
connected to the electrical contacts of the meter.
Preferably the method includes the step of while the electrodes of the test strip are in electrical
contact with the meter, the step of determining whether sample completely covers the electrodes
within the sample space.
Preferably the method includes the step of making a determination of double layer capacitance or
equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
        (i)    applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip;
        (ii)   switching off the applied potential and optionally reapplying a second potential;
        (iii)  observing current generated and determining from the observed current a double
               layer charging or discharging at the electrodes; and
        (iv)   observing a voltage change after the applied potential is switched off, and
        (v)    determining the double layer capacitance of the test strip from the measured
               double layer charging or discharging and the observed voltage change.
Preferably the method includes the step of making a determination of double layer capacitance or
equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
        (i)    applying an alternating voltage having a selected amplitude and a selected
               frequency between the electrodes of the test strip;
        (ii)   measuring the current generated from the application of potential in step (I); and
        (iii)  determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the current measured
               in step (ii), wherein the equivalent capacitance includes both the double layer
               capacitance and the Faradaic capacitance of the test strip.
Preferably the method includes the step of making a determination of double layer capacitance or
equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
                                                   I

         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip thereby
                 charging the test strip, wherein a double layer capacitance is created within the
                 test strip and a voltage is generated by charging the test strip;
         (ii)    converting the voltage created by charging the test strip to an oscillating voltage
                 having a period proportional to the created double layer capacitance; and
         (iii)   observing the oscillating voltage; and
         (iv)    determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the observed
                 oscillating voltage.
Preferably the method includes the step of the information reflecting a characteristic of the test
strip prior to introduction of sample is selected from the group consisting of: calibration
information, regional or country coding, product identification, customer identification, assay
type, and date of manufacture.
Preferably the test strip measures glucose in a sample.
Preferably the method includes the step of while the electrodes of the test strip are in electrical
contact with the meter, the step of (iv) performing an action based upon the translated
characteristic information.
Preferably step (iv) is performed after step (ii).
Preferably step (iv) is performed prior to step (ii).
Preferably the action performed in step (iv) is selected from the group consisting of: modifying
the result of the determination of the analyte in the sample performed in step (ii); and generating
and displaying an error message to a user.
                                                     2

         The present invention provides methods for encoding information on to a test strip as
well as methods for, and meters capable of, obtaining the information encoded on an
electrochemical test strip. The methods of obtaining the information employ the steps of
determining a value indicative of the double layer capacitance or the equivalent capacitance of
the test strip after sample introduction. This value can then be translated into information
regarding a characteristic of the test strip, which is encoded on the test strip prior to sample
introduction.
         The present Inventors have found that a strip's double layer and/or equivalent capacitance
is a variable that can be controlled/altered so as to encode information on to the test strip.
Furthermore, the present Inventor's have found that determining a value indicative of the strip's
double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance when sample is present in the sample space
and subsequently translating this value into information reflecting a characteristic of the test strip
prior to introduction of sample allows for obtaining the information. The encoded information
then can be used in a subsequent analysis or correction step to adjust a calculated value (e.g.
value obtained in a determination or detection of analyte) or it can be used to generate and/or
display an error result or message to a user.
         In a first aspect of the present invention, a method for obtaining information encoded on
an electrochemical test strip having at least two electrodes within a sample space is provided.
The information is encoded on the strip prior to introduction of sample. The method comprises
the steps of:
         (a)      introducing sample to the a sample space so that the sample is in contact with two
                  electrodes within the sample space;
         (b)      determining a value that is representative of the double layer capacitance or the
                  equivalent capacitance of the test strip; and
         (c)      translating the value determined in step (b) into information reflecting a
                  characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample;
thereby obtaining information encoded on the electrochemical test strip.
         In a second aspect of the present invention, a method for detecting an analyte in a sample
in contact with two electrodes within a sample space of an electrochemical test strip is provided.
                                                       3

The test strip has characteristic information encoded thereon prior to introduction of a sample.
The method comprises the steps of:
         (a)     introducing sample to the sample space so that the sample is in contact with two
                 electrodes within the sample space;
         (b)     determining a value that is representative of the double layer capacitance or the
                 equivalent capacitance of the test strip; and
         (c)     translating the value determined in step (b) into information reflecting a
                 characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
         (d)     detecting analyte in the sample disposed within the sample space, and
         (e)     using the characteristic information translated in step (c) to modify a result of step
                  (d).
         The invention also provides a meter for receiving an electrochemical test strip having
electrodes and providing a determination of an analyte in a sample applied to the electrochemical
test strip when received in the meter. The meter comprises:
         (a)     a housing having an opening for receiving an electrochemical test strip, said test
strip having characteristic information encoded thereon;
         (b)     communications means for receiving input from and communicating a result to a
user; and
         (c)     circuitry for making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent
capacitance on a test strip having two electrodes within a sample space containing sample
received within the meter; circuitry for translating the determined double layer capacitance or
equivalent capacitance into information reflecting a characteristic of the test strip prior to
introduction of sample; and circuitry for determination of an analyte in a sample within the
sample space of the test strip.
         In a further aspect of the present invention a measurement system is provided. The
system comprises a meter, as described above, and a test strip having two electrodes within a
sample space, wherein the test strip is disposed within the slot of the housing of the meter.
Brief Description of the Drawings
                                                      4

Fig. I is a flow chart showing steps of an embodiment of the present invention.
Figs. 2-6 show different lookup tables containing capacitance values and associated
characteristic information.
Fig. 7 shows an external view of a meter in accordance with the invention.
Detailed Description of the Invention
         When a sample space of a test strip is filled with sample, or alternatively when the
entirety of the electrodes (or dominant electrode) within the sample space are covered with
sample, then a determination of a value representative of the test strip's double layer capacitance
or equivalent capacitance can be translated into characteristic information encoded on the test
strip prior to sample introduction. Information can be encoded on a test strip by altering
variables within the sample space which impact the strip's equivalent and/or double layer
capacitance when sample covers the electrodes in the sample space. These variables include:
controlling or altering the effective area of the electrodes within the sample space of the test
strip; controlling or altering the material of construction of the electrodes; electrode surface
modification; controlling or altering the type or concentration of ions (e.g. type and amount of
ions such as those present as salts in the reagent); controlling or altering the type or concentration
of mediator.
Definitions
         As used in the specification and claims of this application, the following definitions
should be applied:
         (a)     "analyte" refers to a material of interest that may be present in a sample. In the
present application, the examples use glucose as an analyte, but the present invention is
independent of both the type and amount of analyte. Accordingly, application to glucose
detection systems should be viewed as merely a specific and non-limiting embodiment.
         (b)     "determination of an analyte" refers to qualitative, semi-quantitative and
quantitative processes for evaluating a sample. In a qualitative evaluation, a result indicates
whether or not analyte was detected in the sample. In a semi-quantitative evaluation, the result
                                                    5

indicates whether or not analyte is present above some pre-defined threshold. In a quantitative
evaluation, the result is a numerical indication of the amount of analyte present.
         (c)      "double layer" refers to the charged layers which form at a conductor/electrolyte
interface as a result of adsorption of ions on the conductor surface causing a localized layer of
neutralizing mirror charges in the conductor to form near the solid surface. The double layer is
formed at each electrode in an electrochemical test strip when a liquid sample is present in
contact with the electrode, whether or not a potential is applied. The amount of charge in a
double layer, however, is a function of the electrode potential. The double layer structure
behaves essentially as a capacitor.
         (d)      "double layer capacitance" is the capacitance of a double layer. It may be an
integral capacitance, in which case it can be represented by the formula Cim= I At/AV or a
differential capacitance, in which case it can be represented by the formula Cdir= I/(dV/dt), where
I is current, t is time and V is voltage. As described in Harding (US Patent No. 7,547,382), in
some instances the measured double layer capacitance can be dominated by one electrode, for
example, if one electrode has a substantially larger area, or where the adsorption of ions of one
charge is stronger than ions of the other charge in the sample. Double layer capacitance
measured in these instances is within the scope of the invention, although care should be taken
where one electrode is dominant that the geometry of filling is such that the double layer
capacitance of the dominant electrode is representative of the fill-state of the electrochemical
strip. Where double layer capacitance of a test strip is determined, it is preferably determined in
accordance with the teachings of US Patent No. 7,547,382, to Harding et. al which is
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
         (e)      "double layer charging" is the process of increasing the charge stored in a double
layer as a result of an applied potential. The phrase "double layer charging at the electrodes"
refer to charging at both electrodes or at a dominant electrode.
         (f)      "double layer discharging" is the process of decreasing the charge stored in a
double layer as a result of switching off an applied potential. The phrase "double layer
discharging at the electrodes" refer to discharging at both electrodes or at a dominant electrode.
                                                    6

         (g)     "equivalent capacitance" is herein understood to mean the total equivalent
capacitance between the electrodes (e.g. across the sample space electrochemical test strip, when
electrodes are in contact with sample in the sample space) when potential is applied between the
electrodes. The "equivalent capacitance" of the test strip is a combination of the strip's double
layer capacitance and the strip's Faradaic capacitance. Where equivalent capacitance is
determined, it is preferably detennined in accordance with the teachings in either or both of US
Patent No. 6,872,298 and/or US Patent Application Ser. No. 09/974,597 (Published as US
2003/0098233).
         (h)     "Faradaic capacitance" as used herein refers to the pseudo-capacitance component
of the test strip's equivalent capacitance and is representative of the electrochemical reaction
process that occurs on the electrode surface.
         (i)     "electrochemical test strip" or simply "test strip" refers to a strip having at least
two electrodes Within a sample space, and any necessary reagents for determination of an
analyte in a sample placed between the electrodes. In preferred embodiments, the
electrochemical test strip is disposable after a single use, and has electrical connectors for
attachment to a separate and reusable meter that contains the electronics for applying potential,
analyzing signals and displaying a result. In another embodiment, the electrochemical test strip
includes multiple sample spaces and electrodes disposed within those sample spaces. In this later
embodiment, the "test strip" can be used multiple times where sample is introduced to one or
more at the sample spaces at different times.
         (j)     "facing electrodes" are a pair of electrodes disposed parallel to but in a separate
plane from each other. Some or all of the opposed surfaces of a pair of facing electrodes
preferably overlap, such that potential gradients and current flows between the electrodes are in a
direction substantially perpendicular to the opposed surfaces. Facing electrodes are distinguished
from side-by-side electrodes in which the two electrode surfaces lie in the same plane, and in
which potential gradients and current flow is substantially parallel to the surface of the
electrodes. The present invention can be used with either facing or side-by-side electrodes, as
well as other geometric arrangements.
         (k)     "information encoded on a test strip" is any type of information which details a
                                                    7

characteristic of the test strip that is intentionally, unintentionally, or inherently encoded on a test
strip during manufacture or otherwise prior to introduction of a sample to be analyzed. The
information is encoded on the test strip prior to introduction of sample to the sample space.
Information can be encoded on a test strip by altering variables within the sample space which
impact the strip's equivalent and/or double layer capacitance when sample covers the electrodes
in the sample space. These variables include: controlling or altering the effective area of the
electrodes within the sample space of the test strip; controlling or altering the material of
construction of the electrodes; electrode surface modification; controlling or altering the type or
concentration of ions (e.g. type and amount of ions such as those present as salts in the reagent);
controlling or altering the type or concentration of mediator. Encoding information to the test
strip for example can be accomplished by forming electrode(s) within the sample space having
specified effective areas during manufacture or can be accomplished as a post production step by
altering the effective area of the electrode(s) within the sample space by etching, punching,
ablating, scoring, or otherwise removing conductive material from the electrode within the
sample space. A non-limiting exemplary list of the type of characteristic information capable of
being encoded on a test strip includes: calibration information, regional or country coding,
product identification, customer identification, assay type (e.g. glucose test strip or ketone test
strip), and date of manufacture.
         (1)      "obtaining information" is herein understood to mean decoding, reading,
translating, retrieving, or otherwise obtaining or ascertaining, the information encoded on the test
strip.
         (in)     "translating" is herein understood to mean using a value determined in one set of
steps to provide information about the test strip which is representative of a characteristic of the
test strip prior to introduction of sample to the test strip. For example, the determined value
which is representative of the double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance of a test strip,
can be reconciled with a lookup table stored in a meter or obtained by a meter. The lookup table
can have a range, or ranges, ofvalues which are indicative of various characteristic information
of the test strip.
         (n)      "value representative of double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance" is
                                                      8

herein understood to mean the actual determined capacitance or a separate value which
comprises information about the capacitance of the strip (e.g. an electrical signal or some other
value).
        (0)      "effective area of an electrode" is herein understood to mean the conductive
portion of an electrode, or the dominant electrode, which is in contact with sample in the sample
space and capable ofbeing electrically connected with a meter. The "effective area" includes
conductive portions of the electrode which are exposed to sample when present in the sample
space. The "effective area" includes the conductive portions which are exposed to sample which
lie within the two dimensional planar footprint (e.g. length, Width, radius, etc.) as well as
conductive portions of the electrode which are exposed to sample which lie within a third
dimension (e.g. depth or thickness) such as located in pits, crevices, and/or pores of the
electrode.
        Reference throughout the specification to "one embodiment," "another embodiment," "an
embodiment," "some embodiments," and so forth, means that a particular element (e.g., feature,
structure, property, and/or characteristic) described in connection with the embodiment is
included in at least one embodiment described herein, and may or may not be present in other
embodiments. In addition, it is to be understood that the described element(s) may be combined
in any suitable manner in the various embodiments.
Method of Obtaining Encoded Information from a Test Strip:
        In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for obtaining information
encoded on an electrochemical test strip. The test strip has at least two electrodes disposed within
a sample space and the information is encoded on the test strip prior to introduction of liquid
sample. As shown in Figure 1, the method comprises the steps of:
        (a)      introducing sample to the sample space so that the sample is in contact with two
                 electrodes within the sample space;
        (b)      determining a value that is representative of the double layer capacitance (DLC)
                 or the equivalent capacitance (EC) of the test strip; and
        (c)      translating the value determined in step (b) into information reflecting a
                                                    9

                 characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample;
thereby obtaining information encoded on the electrochemical test strip.
         The step of (b) determining a value that is representative of the double layer capacitance
or the equivalent capacitance of the test strip, is known in theart and is not particularly limited
herein. The determined value may be the actual value of the test strip's double layer capacitance
or its equivalent capacitance, or it may be a value or signal that is representative of either of both
of these capacitance values.
         Prior art references discussed herein make use of a test strip's double layer capacitance or
equivalent capacitance in determining whether a sufficient amount of sample has been applied to
and is disposed with the sample space to perform an electrochemical determination of analyte. In
these references, it is disclosed that sample volume can be determined as a function of the area of
the electrode(s) wetted by sample and the thickness of a spacer layer and/or separation of
electrodes. These references each describe and employ different capacitance-determining
methods for determining the sample-wetted electrode area within the sample space and hence
provide different methods of determining sample sufficiency within the sample space. Any of
these methods for determining double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance can be
employed to accomplish step (b) of the present invention.
         For example, US Patent No. 7,547,382, to Harding et. al, which is incorporated herein by
reference, discloses several different methods for measuring a test strip's double layer
capacitance. Harding uses a measure of the strip's "double layer capacitance in a determination
of whether sufficient sample is present within the sample space to perform an electrochemical
determination of analyte within the sample.
         Harding describes that the double layer capacitance of a test strip with sample in the
sample space can be determined using the steps of:
         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)    switching off the applied potential and optionally reapplying a second potential;
         (iii)   observing current generated and determining from the observed current a double
                 layer charging or discharging at the electrodes; and
         (iv)    observing a voltage change after the applied potential is switched off, and
                                                     10

         (v)    determining the double layer capacitance of the test strip from the measured
                double layer charging or discharging and the observed voltage change.
Harding employs these steps to determine double layer capacitance of the test strip which is
either the integral capacitance or differential capacitance of the test strip.
         Where a value representative of the equivalent capacitance of the test strip is determined,
it can be determined in accordance with the teachings in either or both of US Patent No.
6,872,298 and/or US Patent Application Ser. No. 09/974,597 (Published as US 2003/0098233),
both of which list Kermani as an Inventor and are incorporated herein by reference. In these
references, Kermani makes use of a test strip's equivalent capacitance when sample is present
within the sample space in the determination of whether sufficient sample is present within the
sample space to perform an electrochemical determination of analyte within the sample. In US
2003/0098233, Kermani describes a method of determining a test strip's equivalent capacity,
includes the steps of:
         (i)    applying an alternating voltage having a selected amplitude and a selected
                frequency between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)   measuring the current generated from the application of potential in step (I); and
         (iii)  determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the current measured
                in step (ii), wherein the equivalent capacitance includes both the double layer
                capacitance and the Faradaic capacitance of the test strip.
In Kermani's US Patent No. 6,872,298, he describes another method of determining a test strip's
equivalent capacity includes the steps of:
         (i)    applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip thereby
charging the test strip, wherein a double layer capacitance is created within the test strip and a
voltage is generated by charging the test strip;
         (ii)   converting the voltage created by charging the test strip to an oscillating voltage
having a period proportional to the created double layer capacitance;
         (iii)  observing the oscillating voltage; and
         (iv)   determining the equivalent capacitance oftest strip from the observed oscillating
                voltage.
                                                   II

As discussed above, step (b) can be suitably accomplished using the teachings of the prior art
and is not particularly limited herein.
         To obtain the most accurate (b) determination of a value representative of the strip's
double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance for the purposes of obtaining information
encoded on the test strip prior to introduction of sample, the sample space will be preferably
completely filled with sample. For example, it is preferred that sample is disposed between and
completely covering the electrodes (or dominant electrode). This may mean the sample space is
completely filled with sample or this may mean that the sample space is not entirely filled with
sample, but that sample covers the electrodes. In preferred embodiment the methods, strips,
meters, and meter/strip combinations of the present invention further comprise structures or
functionality to determine whether sample completely covers the electrodes (or dominant
electrode) within the sample space. This step can occur at any time after introduction of sample,
however as shown in Fig. 1 this preferably occurs prior to the determination of the strip's
capacitance value. Methods and apparatuses useful for fill detection are well-known in the art
and are not particularly limited herein. For example, US 4,929,426 discloses the use of an
impedance electrode that sample flows over when the sample chamber is filled, while US
5,582,697, US 6,212,417, and US 6,299,757, all ofwhich are incorporated by reference, disclose
the use of a third electrode that can be used for fill detection. US 6,743,635, which is
incorporated by reference, discloses a four electrodes approach, including separate fill detect
anode and cathode. US 5,997,817, which is incorporated by reference, discloses a test strip with
a window through which the sample can be viewed, and a "fill-to-here" line to assess sample
sufficiency.
         Once the value representative of a test strip's double layer capacitance or equivalent
capacitance is determined, this value can be (c) translated into information reflecting a
characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample. As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the
translation step is preferably a reconciliation (e.g. referencing) of the determined double layer
capacitance or equivalent capacitance of the test strip with a lookup table. In Fig. 2 the lookup
table correlates ranges of capacitance values with regional identification or country coding of the
test strips. In Fig. 3, the lookup table correlates ranges of capacitance values with the type of
                                                    12

analyte the test strip is designed to measure. In Fig. 4, the lookup table correlates ranges of
capacitance values with calibration information of the test strip. In Fig. 5, the lookup table
correlates ranges of capacitance values with product identification of the test strip. In Fig. 6, the
lookup table correlates ranges of capacitance values with a production or expiration year.
         Translating the value of the strip's double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance
into information reflective of a characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
allows for obtaining useful characteristic information of the test strip. As shown in Fig. 1, in
preferred embodiments, the obtained information causes, or is used in, a subsequent action or
step. In some embodiments the subsequent action or step is to generate or otherwise cause
display of an error result, or error message, which indicates that the test strip is not suitable for
use with the meter, or that some other error has occurred. In other embodiments, the subsequent
action or step is one where the obtained or translated information is used in a subsequent
measurement or analyte determination step or to modify a result from a subsequent measurement
or analyte determination step.
Encoding information on a test strip.
         Information can be encoded on a test strip by altering variables within the sample space
which impact the strip's equivalent and/or double layer capacitance when sample covers the
electrodes in the sample space. These variables include: controlling or altering the effective area
of the electrodes within the sample space of the test strip; controlling or altering the material of
construction of the electrodes; electrode surface modification; controlling or altering the type or
concentration of ions (e.g. type and amount of ions such as those present as salts in the reagent);
controlling or altering the type or concentration of mediator.
         For example in one embodiment when information is to be encoded on a test strip, the
effective electrode area may be altered or formed by increasing or decreasing its two
dimensional conductive surface area footprint (e.g. to increase/decrease length, width or radius,
etc.) in contact with the sample. Alternatively, or in combination with controlling to two
dimensional surface area footprint, a third conductive dimension of the electrode can be
altered/controlled by increasing/decreasing the thickness of the electrode (e.g. where the
                                                   13

electrode has a pitted or porous surface which provides a third dimension of sample contact). In
other embodiments, the type and/or concentration ofmediator and or ions (e.g. salts) present in a
reagent disposed within the sample space may be altered to encode information to the test strip,
which in turn will alter the strip's double layer and/or equivalent capacitance which allows for
translation and obtaining of the information according to the herein described methods.
Determination of an Analyte, for Example Glucose
         The methods of the present invention are preferably combined with a subroutine directed
to the detection and/or determination of analyte in the sample. The detection and/or
determination of analyte subroutine can occur prior to, during, or after obtaining the encoded
information from the test strip. In some embodiments, the subroutine of performing and/or the
result of the detection and/or determination of analyte is adjusted or corrected depending on the
type and content of information obtained from the test strip. In other embodiments the
subroutine of detection and/or determination steps is halted, or not performed, depending on the
type and content of information obtained from the test strip. In yet other embodiments just a
error message is displayed to a user depending on the characteristic obtained from and encoded
on the test strip.
         Subroutines for the electrochemical detection and determination of an analytes such as
glucose are conventionally achieved by applying a potential to an electrochemical cell containing
a sample to be evaluated for the presence/amount of glucose, an enzyme that oxidizes or reduces
glucose, such as glucose oxidase, dehydrogenase, or reductase, and a redox mediator. Reduced
mediator is oxidized at one of the electrodes, and electrochemical balance is maintained by a
reducing reaction at the other electrode to result in a measurable current. The measured current is
related to the concentration of glucose in the sample, and various techniques are known for
determining glucose concentrations in such a system. (See, for example, US Patents Nos.
6,284,125; 5,942,102; 5,3 52,2,35 1; and 5,243,516, which are incorporated herein by reference.)
         Determination of glucose or other analytes in a sample can also be made using other
electrochemical techniques. These include potentiometry, for example as described in US Patent
No. 6,251,260, which is incorporated herein by reference, or coulometry, for example as
                                                  14

described in US Patent No. 6,299,757 which is incorporated herein by reference.
        In one embodiment, a method for determining analyte in a sample in contact with two
electrodes within a sample space of an electrochemical test strip is provided. The test strip has
characteristic information encoded thereon prior to introduction of a sample. The method
comprises the steps of:
        (a)     introducing sample to the sample space so that the sample is in contact with two
                electrodes within the sample space;
        (b)     determining a value that is representative of the double layer capacitance or the
                equivalent capacitance of the test strip; and
        (c)     translating the value determined in step (b) into information reflecting a
                characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
        (d)     determining analyte in the sample disposed within the sample space, and
        (e)     using the characteristic information translated in step (c) to modify a result of step
                (d).
        Step (c) occurs after step (b), however step (d) can occur before or after either of steps (b)
or (c).
Apparatus of the Invention
        The method of the invention can be used with any strip that has at least two electrodes
provided a meter apparatus can receive the strip and provide the necessary applications of
voltage and signal processing. Such a meter also forms an aspect of the present invention. Thus,
the invention provides a meter for receiving an electrochemical test strip having electrodes and
providing a determination of an analyte in a sample applied to the electrochemical test strip when
received in the meter, said meter comprising:
        (a)     a housing having an opening for receiving an electrochemical test strip, said test
strip having characteristic information encoded thereon;
        (b)     communications means for communicating a result to a user; and
        (c)     circuitry and a processor for making a determination of double layer capacitance
or equivalent capacitance on a test strip having two electrodes within a sample space containing
                                                    15

sample received within the meter; circuitry and a processor for translating the determined double
layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance into information reflecting a characteristic of the test
strip prior to introduction of sample; and circuitry and a processor for determination of an
analyte in a sample within the sample space of the test strip.
         Fig. 7 shows an extemal view of a meter in accordance with the invention. The meter has
a housing 61, and a display 62. The housing 61 has an opening 63, into which a test strip is
inserted for use. The meter may also have a button 64 for signaling the start of the measurement
cycle, or may have an internal mechanism for detecting the insertion of a test strip and/or the
application of a sample. Such mechanisms are known in the art, for example from US Patents
Nos. 5,266,179; 5,320,732; 5,438,271 and 6,616,819, which are incorporated herein by
reference. In the meter of the invention, buttons, displays such as LCD displays, RF, infrared or
other wireless transmitters, wire connectors such as USB, parallel or serial connections constitute
means for receiving input from and communicating a result to a user, and can be used
individually and in various combinations.
         The meter of the present invention includes circuitry in the form of processor(s),
software, and/or firmware, or any other type of instructions or circuitry capable of carrying out
the method steps described above.
Examples
Obtaining informationfrom test strips - Example 1
         An electrochemical meter is configured to determine the double layer capacitance of a
test strip disposed within its test strip port. A control solution sample is introduced to two
different test strips having different information encoded thereon as a result of having different
effective electrode areas (e.g. strip I - information 1 / strip 2 - information 2). It is determined
that the control solution filled and sample space and completely covers two electrodes within the
sample space. The double layer capacitance of both strips is determined and yield different
values. These determined values are then translated (e.g. via reconciliation with a lookup table
with known double layer capacitance ranges identifying the characteristic information) and the
information encoded on the strips is determined to be strip 1 - information 1 / strip 2
                                                    16

information 2.
Obtaining information from test strips - Example 2
         An electrochemical meter is configured to determine the equivalent capacitance of a test
strip disposed within its test strip port. A control solution sample is introduced to two different
test strips having different information encoded thereon as a result of having different ionic salts
present in the sample space (e.g. strip 1 - potassium - information 1 / strip 2 - sodium
information 2). It is then determined that the control solution filled and sample space and
completely covers two electrodes within the sample space. The equivalent capacitance of both
strips is then determined and yields different values. These determined values. are then translated
(e.g. via reconciliation with a lookup table with known equivalent capacitance ranges with
characteristic information) and the information encoded on the strips is determined to be strip I
information 1 / strip 2 - information 2.
                                                   17

CLAIMS
 1. An analyte determination system comprising a test strip having two electrodes disposed
within a sample space and a meter having electrical contacts for electrical connection with the
electrodes of the test strip, wherein:
the test strip comprises characteristic information encoded thereon, the characteristic information
reflecting a characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
the meter comprises:
         (a)     communications means for communicating a result to a user; and
         (b)     a processor and instructions for performing, while the electrodes of the test strip
are in electrical contact with the meter, the steps of:
                 (i) making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance
         on the test strip when a sample is present within the sample space;
                 (ii) making a determination of an analyte in the sample; and
                 (iii) translating the determined double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance
         into information reflecting the characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of
         sample.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the meter further comprises instructions for performing,
while the electrodes of the test strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step of
determining whether sample completely covers the electrodes within the sample space.
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions for making a determination of double
layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)    switching off the applied potential and optionally reapplying a second potential;
                                                     18

         (iii)   observing current generated and determining from the observed current a double
                 layer charging or discharging at the electrodes; and
         (iv)    observing a voltage change after the applied potential is switched off, and
         (v)     determining the double layer capacitance of the test strip from the measured
                 double layer charging or discharging and the observed voltage change.
4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions for making a determination of double
layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying an alternating voltage having a selected amplitude and a selected
                 frequency between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)    measuring the current generated from the application of potential in step (I); and
         (iii)   determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the current measured
                 in step (ii), wherein the equivalent capacitance includes both the double layer
                 capacitance and the Faradaic capacitance of the test strip.
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions for making a determination of double
layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip thereby
                 charging the test strip, wherein a double layer capacitance is created within the
                 test strip and a voltage is generated by charging the test strip;
         (ii)    converting the voltage created by charging the test strip to an oscillating voltage
                 having a period proportional to the created double layer capacitance; and
         (iii)   observing the oscillating voltage; and
         (iv)    determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the observed
                 oscillating voltage.
6.      The system of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the information reflecting a characteristic of
the test strip prior to introduction of sample is selected from the group consisting of: calibration
                                                    19

information, regional or country coding, product identification, customer identification, assay
type, and date of manufacture.
7.       The system of any of claims I to 6, wherein the test strip measures glucose in a sample.
8.       The system of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the meter further comprises instructions for
performing, while the electrodes of the test strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step
of (iv) performing an action based upon the translated characteristic information.
9.       The system of claim 8, wherein the processor perfonns the instructions of step (iv) after
step (ii).
 10.     The system of claim 8, wherein the processor performs the instructions of step (iv) prior
to step (ii).
 11.     The system of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the action performed in step (iv) is selected
from the group consisting of: modifying the result of the determination of the analyte in the
sample performed in step (ii); and generating and displaying an error message to a user.
 12.     A method of using the analyte determination system of any of claims 1 to 11, comprising
the steps of:
         (i) electrically connecting the electrodes of the test strip with the electrical contacts of the
meter;
         (ii) making a determination of double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance on the
test strip when a sample is present within the sample space; and
         (iii) translating the determined double layer capacitance or equivalent capacitance into
information reflecting the characteristic of the test strip prior to introduction of sample,
                                                   20

wherein steps (ii) and (iii) are performed while (i) the electrodes of the test strip are electrically
connected to the electrical contacts of the meter.
13.      The method of claim 12, further comprising performing, while the electrodes of the test
strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step of determining whether sample completely
covers the electrodes within the sample space.
14.      The method of claim 12, wherein the step of making a determination of double layer
capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)    switching off the applied potential and optionally reapplying a second potential;
         (iii)   observing current generated and determining from the observed current a double
                 layer charging or discharging at the electrodes; and
         (iv)    observing a voltage change after the applied potential is switched off, and
         (v)     determining the double layer capacitance of the test strip from the measured
                 double layer charging or discharging and the observed voltage change.
15.      The method of claim 12, wherein the step of making a determination of double layer
capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
         (i)     applying an alternating voltage having a selected amplitude and a selected
                 frequency between the electrodes of the test strip;
         (ii)    measuring the current generated from the application of potential in step (I); and
         (iii)   determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the current measured
                 in step (ii), wherein the equivalent capacitance includes both the double layer
                 capacitance and the Faradaic capacitance of the test strip.
16.      The method of claim 12, wherein the step of making a determination of double layer
capacitance or equivalent capacitance comprise the steps of:
                                                   21

         (i)     applying a potential difference between the electrodes of the test strip thereby
                 charging the test strip, wherein a double layer capacitance is created within the
                 test strip and a voltage is generated by charging the test strip;
         (ii)    converting the voltage created by charging the test strip to an oscillating voltage
                 having a period proportional to the created double layer capacitance; and
         (iii)   observing the oscillating voltage; and
         (iv)    determining the equivalent capacitance of the test strip from the observed
                 oscillating voltage.
 17.    The method of any of claims 12 to 16, wherein the information reflecting a characteristic
of the test strip prior to introduction of sample is selected from the group consisting of:
calibration information, regional or country coding, product identification, customer
identification, assay type, and date of manufacture.
 18.    The method of any of claims 12 to 17, wherein the test strip measures glucose in a
sample.
 19.    The method of any of claims 12 to 18, further comprising performing, while the
electrodes of the test strip are in electrical contact with the meter, the step of (iv) performing an
action based upon the translated characteristic information.
20.     The method of claim 19, wherein step (iv) is performed after step (ii).
21.     The method of claim 19, wherein step (iv) is performed prior to step (ii).
22.     The method of any of claims 19 to 21, wherein the action performed in step (iv) is
selected from the group consisting of: modifying the result of the determination of the analyte in
the sample performed in step (ii); and generating and displaying an error message to a user.
                                                    22

