1002182026
                                            ABSTRACT
 Embodiments of this invention relate to systems and methods for providing anatomical flap
 centration for an ophthalmic laser treatment system. In one embodiment, the laser surgery
 system, having an imaging system and a suction ring coupled with a patient interface, captures a
 digital image of a subject's eye and identifies an optimum treatment placement of the corneal
 flap using anatomical markers as reference points.

 1002182026
   SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING ANATOMICAL FLAP CENTRATION
                    FOR AN OPHTHALMIC LASER TREATMENT SYSTEM
                     CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001] The present application is a divisional of parent application 2014237978, the contents of
which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0002] Embodiments of this invention generally relate to ophthalmic laser surgery, and more
particularly, to systems and methods for providing an anatomical flap centration for laser-assisted
ophthalmic surgery.
                                           BACKGROUND
[0003] Significant developments in laser technology have led to its application in the field of
ophthalmic surgery. In particular, laser surgery has become the technique of choice for ophthalmic
procedures where eye tissue is to be photodisrupted or ablated. One particularly popular procedure
is laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis ("LASIK"), which is a refractive surgery that treats the
cornea of the eye to correct myopia, hyperopia, and/or astigmatism. Since this procedure involves
treatment within corneal tissue, it requires a "flap" to be created and lifted to expose a middle
section of the cornea (the "stroma") for photoablation with an excimer laser. Previously, surgical
tools such as microkeratomes were used to create corneal flaps. But, these days, flaps are created
and prepared using a non-ultraviolet, ultra-short pulsed laser that emits radiation in ultra-short
pulse durations measured in as few as a few femtoseconds or a few nanoseconds. Examples of
ultra-short pulsed laser systems include the Abbott Medical Optics iFSTM Advanced Femtosecond
Laser, the IntraLaseTM FS Laser, as well as various other femtosecond and picosecond lasers
available in the market.
[0004] Laser eye surgery is performed while the patient is in a reclined position but awake,
meaning that the patient's eyes are moving during the procedure. As would be expected, patient eye
movement relative to the laser beam's focal point can undermine the laser's accuracy and precision,
and may even result in permanent tissue damage. For example, when creating flaps, it is extremely
importation for the laser beam to accurately focus on a specific focal spot within the corneal tissue.
Hence, various devices and mechanisms are conventionally used to stabilize, reduce, and/or
                                                    I

 1002182026
 eliminate patient eye movement, which in turn, improves safety and surgical outcome.
 [0005] For ultra-short pulsed laser systems, as illustrated in Fig. 1, it is common to use a
 mechanical stabilization device 100 that directly couples a patient's eye E to the laser's delivery
 system, thereby limiting the eye's movement. Such a device 100 is commonly referred to as an
 ophthalmic "patient interface." Examples of ophthalmic patient interface devices used to stabilize
the eye are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6, 253,476 and 6,254,595, issued to Juhasz et at, U.S. Pat.
No. 6, 863, 667, issued to Webb et al, U.S. Pat. No. D462,442 issued to Webb, and co-pending
 U.S. Pat. App. No. 13/230,590, which are incorporated here by reference. In some systems, the
patient interface is held over the anterior surface of the eye using a "suction ring" 200, which is
typically the first device secured to the eye. As one can appreciate, even the placement of suction
ring 200 and the patient interface 100 prior to surgery requires precision and accuracy. Generally,
with conventional systems, surgeons visually estimate the proper placement of the suction ring, the
patient interface, as well as the location of the flap, using a digital microscope for guidance. These
visual estimations and discretion may leave room for error, leading to less than ideal conditions for
alignment of the corneal flap bed, and for the subsequent corrective treatment with the excimer
laser. To compensate for the possibility of such error, flaps are commonly oversized.
 [0006] Hence, there is a need for improved systems and methods for flap placement.
[0006A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior
art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person
in the art.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006B] The present invention provides an ophthalmic surgical laser system for creating a corneal
flap on a subject's eye, comprising: a laser delivery system; a suction ring configured to overlay an
anterior surface of the subject's eye, the suction ring operatively coupled to a patient interface,
wherein the patient interface is coupled to the laser delivery system; an imaging system operatively
coupled to the laser delivery system and configured to capture a digital image of the subject's eye
with the suction ring overlaying the anterior surface of the eye, wherein the imaging system
includes a light source generating a light and wherein the digital image of the subject's eye includes
one or more Purkinje reflections of the light; a computer-readable medium having a set of
instructions that, when executed by a processor, identifies a location for creating the corneal flap,
wherein the set of instructions comprise: identifying one or more anatomical reference points in the
digital image captured by the imaging system; identifying the Purkinje reflections in the digital
                                                     2

 1002182026
 image and, based on the Purkinje reflections, generating information regarding orientation and
 position of a visual axis and an apex of a cornea of the subject's eye; calculating a location of the
 suction ring coupled to the patient interface which has been placed to the subject's eye relative to
 the reference points and allowing for an adjustment of the location of the suction ring to an
 adjusted position by generating an overlay on the digital image that identifies a central location on
 the cornea for optimum placement of the suction ring; and identifying a location on the cornea to
 create the corneal flap based on the adjusted position of the suction ring and based on the
 information regarding the orientation and position of the visual axis and the apex of the cornea.
 [0006C] The present invention provides a process for creating a corneal flap on a subject's eye
 using an ophthalmic surgical laser system having an imaging system and a suction ring coupled to
 a patient interface, comprising the steps of: capturing an image of the subject's eye using the
 imaging system, the image including one or more Purkinje reflections of a light emitted by the
 imaging system; identifying one or more anatomical reference points in the captured image;
 identifying the Purkinje reflections in the digital image and, based on the Purkinje reflections,
generating information regarding orientation and position of a visual axis and an apex of the cornea
of the subject's eye; applying the suction ring coupled to the patient interface to the subject's eye;
calculating a location of the suction ring coupled to the patient interface relative to the reference
points; generating an overlay on the image that identifies a central location on the cornea for
optimum placement of the suction ring, thereby allowing for an adjustment of the location of the
suction ring to an adjusted position; and identifying a location on the cornea to create the flap
based on the adjusted position of the suction ring relative to the reference points on the cornea and
based on the information regarding the orientation and position of the visual axis and the apex of
the cornea.
 [0006] Accordingly, embodiments of this invention are directed to systems and methods for
providing anatomical flap centration in an ophthalmic laser treatment system, that substantially
obviate one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art. To achieve
these objectives and other advantages, in one embodiment of this invention a surgical laser system,
having an imaging system and a suction ring coupled with a patient interface, captures a digital
image of the eye and identifies an optimum placement of the flap using anatomical markers as
reference points.
[0007] This summary and the following detailed description are merely exemplary, illustrative, and
explanatory, and are not intended to limit, but to provide further explanation of the invention as
claimed. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the descriptions
that follow, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the
invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be
                                                     3

realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description, claims
and the appended drawings.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]          Understanding this invention will be facilitated by the following detailed
description of the preferred embodiments considered in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals refer to like parts, Note, however, that the drawings are not
drawn to scale.
[00091          FIG. 1 is an illustration of an exploded, perspective view of the component
portions of an ophthalmic stabilization device known in the art.
[0010]          FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a laser eye surgery system according to a
preferred embodiment of this invention.
[00111          FIG. 3 is a simplified diagram of a computer system according to a preferred
embodiment of this invention.
[0012]          FIG. 4 is an illustration of an electronic process according to a preferred
embodiment this invention,
[0013]          FIGS. 5a, 5b, 5c are illustrations of the operation of a preferred electronic process
and system according to a preferred embodiment of this invention.
                                                  4

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00141          The drawings and related descriptions of the embodiments have been simplified
to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of these embodiments, while
eliminating various other elements found in conventional collagen shields, ophthalmic patient
interfaces, and in laser eye surgical systems.     Those of ordinary skill in the art may thus
recognize that other elements and/or steps are desirable and/or required in implementing the
embodiments that are claimed and described. But, because those other elements and steps are
well known in the art, and because they do not necessarily facilitate a better understanding of the
embodiments, they are not discussed. This disclosure is directed to all applicable variations,
modifications, changes, and implementations known to those skilled in the art. As such, the
following detailed descriptions are merely illustrative and exemplary in nature and are not
intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter or the uses of such embodiments. As
used in this application, the tens "exemplary" and "illustrative" mean "serving as an example,
instance, or illustration."  Any implementation described as exemplary or illustrative is not
meant to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. Further, there is
no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding
background of the invention, brief summary, or the following detailed description.
[0015]           Turning to Fig. 2, an exemplary ophthalmic surgical laser system 10 is shown.
The laser system 10 includes a laser 12 that produces a laser beam 14 which generates laser
beam pulses. Laser 12 is optically coupled to laser delivery optics 16, which, under the direction
of a computer system 22, directs laser beam 14 to an eye E of patient P. A delivery optics
support structure (not shown here for clarity) extends from a frame 18 supporting laser 12. A
                                                 5

microscope 20 is mounted on the delivery optics support structure.           The microscope 20 is
generally used by the surgeon during a procedure as guidance to control the system 10 and
monitor the status of the patient's eye, E. The surgeon may further use the microscope 20 as a
guide to directly engage the eye, e.g., to place a patient interface 100 (as shown in Fig. 1) on the
eye or directly treat the eye, if necessary. Preferably, microscope 20 is a digital microscope
known in the art that uses, e.g., optics and an imaging device, such as for example, a charged
coupled device ("CCD") camera, to output a digital image to a monitor, such as an LCD display
21.    The digital microscope 20 may operate under the direction of the operator and/or the
computer system 22. A fixation system 15 is generally coupled to laser 12, laser delivery optics
16 and the delivery optics support structure. The fixation system 15 includes a light emitting
diode (LED), optically positioned in front of or above the patient's eye, E, causing the patient to
focus on the light when powered on, thereby stabilizing eye movement. The fixation system 15
may be manually manipulated by the surgeon and/or under the direction of computer system 22.
[0016]          U.S. Patent No. 7,351,241 describes methods of photoalteration, which is
incorporated here by reference. Other devices or systems may also be used to generate pulsed
laser beam 14.     For example, non-ultraviolet (UV), ultra-short pulsed laser technology can
produce pulsed laser beam 14 having pulse durations measured in femtoseconds. Some of the
non-UV, ultra-short pulsed laser technology may be used in ophthalmic applications.              For
example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,993,438 discloses a device for performing ophthalmic surgical
procedures to effect high-accuracy corrections of optical aberrations, and also discloses an
intrastromal photodisruption technique for reshaping the cornea using a non-UV, ultra-short
(e.g., femtosecond pulse duration), pulsed laser beam that propagates through corneal tissue and
                                                  6

is focused at a point below the surface of the cornea to photodisrupt stromal tissue at the focal
point.
[0017]           Although the laser system 10 may be used to photoalter a variety of materials
(e.g., organic, inorganic, or a combination thereof), the laser system 10 is suitable for ophthalmic
applications in one embodiment. In this case, the focusing optics direct the pulsed laser beam 14
toward an eye E (e.g., onto or into a cornea) for plasma mediated (e.g., non-UV) photoablation of
superficial tissue, or into the stroma of the cornea for intrastromal photodisruption of tissue. In
this embodiment, the laser system 10 may also include a patient interface 100 (as shown in Fig.
 1) with a lens to change the shape (e.g., flatten or curve) of the cornea prior to scanning the
pulsed laser beam 14 toward the eye E. In this embodiment, the laser system may also use a
suction ring 200 in conjunction with the patient interface 100. This suction ring first attaches to
the anterior surface of a patient's eye through an applied vacuum mechanism. The laser delivery
system 10 along with the patient interface 100 is then guided by the surgeon to subsequently
engage with the suction ring. The laser system 10 is capable of generating the pulsed laser beam
 14 with physical characteristics similar to those of the laser beams generated by a laser system
disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,764,930 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,993,438, which are incorporated here by
reference.
 [0018]          For example, the ophthalmic laser system 10 can produce an ultra-short pulsed
laser beam 14 for use as an incising laser beam 14. This pulsed laser beam 14 preferably has
laser pulses with durations as long as a few nanoseconds or as short as a few femtoseconds. For
intrastromal photodisruption of the tissue, the pulsed laser beam 14 has a wavelength that
permits the pulsed laser beam 14 to pass through the cornea without absorption by the corneal
                                                  7

tissue. The wavelength of the pulsed laser beam 14 is generally in the range of about 400 nm to
about 3000 nm, and the irradiance of the pulsed laser beam 14 for accomplishing photodisruption
of stromal tissues at the focal point is typically greater than the threshold for optical breakdown
of the tissue. Although a non-UV, ultra-short pulsed laser beam is described in this embodiment,
the pulsed laser beam may have other pulse durations and different wavelengths in other
embodiments.
[0019]          Computer system 22 may comprise (or interface with) a conventional or special
computer, e.g., PC, laptop, and so on, including the standard user interface devices such as a
keyboard, a mouse, a touch pad, foot pedals, a joystick, a touch screen, an audio input, a display
monitor, and the like. Computer system 22 typically includes an input device such as a magnetic
or optical disk drive, or an input interface such as a USB connection, a wired and/or wireless
network connection, or'the like. Such input devices or interfaces are often used to download a
computer executable code, to a storage media 29, and may embody any of the methods according
to embodiments of this invention. Storage media 29 may take the form of an optical disk, a data
tape, a volatile or non-volatile memory, RAM, or the like, and the computer system 22 includes
the memory and other standard components of modem computer systems for storing and
executing this code. Storage media 29 includes one or more fixation maps, and may optionally
include a treatment map, and/or an ablation table.         Storage media 29 may alternatively be
remotely operatively coupled with computer system 22 via network connections such as LAN,
the Internet, or via wireless methods such as WLAN, Bluetooth, or the like.
 [00201         Additional components and subsystems may be included with laser system 10, as
should be understood by those of skill in the art.           For example, spatial and/or temporal
                                                   8

integrators may be included to control the distribution of energy within the laser beam, as
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,646,791, which is incorporated here by reference.             Ablation
effluent evacuators/filters, aspirators, and other ancillary components of the laser surgery system
are known in the art.       Further details of suitable systems for performing a laser ablation
procedure can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,665,913, 4,669,466, 4,732,148,
4,770,172, 4,773,414, 5,207,668, 5,108,388, 5,219,343, 5,646,791 and 5,163,934, which are
incorporated here by reference.
 [0021]        Fig. 3 is a simplified block diagram of an exemplary computer system 22 that
may be used by the laser surgical system 10 of embodiments of this invention. Computer system
22 typically includes at least one processor 52 which may communicate with a number of
peripheral devices via a bus subsystem 54.        These peripheral devices may include a storage
subsystem 56, comprising a memory subsystem 58 and a file storage subsystem 60 (which may
include storage media 29), user interface input devices 62, user interface output devices 64, and a
network interface subsystem 66.        Network interface subsystem 66 provides an interface to
outside networks 68 and/or other devices.
 [0022]        User interface input devices 62 may include a keyboard, pointing devices such as
a mouse, trackball, touch pad, or graphics tablet, a scanner, foot pedals, a joystick, a touch screen
incorporated into the display, audio input devices such as voice recognition systems,
microphones, and other types of input devices. User interface input devices 62 are often used to
download a computer executable code from a storage media 29 embodying any of the methods
according to embodiments of this invention. User interface input devices 62 are also used to
control an eye fixation system. In general, use of the term "input device" is intended to include a
                                                   9

variety of conventional and proprietary devices and ways to input information into computer
system 22.
 [0023]        User interface output devices 64 may include a display subsystem, a printer, a fax
machine, or non-visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem may be a
cathode ray tube (CRT), a flat-panel device such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), e.g., LCD
display 21 shown in Fig. 2, a projection device, or the like. The display subsystem may also
provide a non-visual display such as via audio output devices.        In general, use of the term
"output device" is intended to include a variety of conventional and proprietary devices and ways
to output information from computer system 22 to a user.
 [0024]        Storage subsystem 56 can store the basic programming and data constructs that
provide the functionality of the various embodiments of this invention. For example, a database
and modules implementing the functionality of the methods described here may be stored in
storage subsystem 56. These software modules are generally executed by processor 52. In a
distributed environment, the software modules may be stored on a plurality of computer systems
and executed by processors of the plurality of computer systems. Storage subsystem 56 typically
comprises memory subsystem 58 and file storage subsystem 60.
 [00251        Memory subsystem 58 typically includes a number of memories including a main
random access memory (RAM) 70 for storage of instructions and data during program execution
and a read only memory (ROM) 72 in which fixed instructions are stored.               File storage
subsystem 60 provides persistent (non-volatile) storage for program and data files, and may
include storage media 29 (Fig. 2). File storage subsystem 60 may include a hard disk drive along
                                                 10

with associated removable media, a Compact Disk (CD) drive, an optical drive, DVD, solid-state
removable memory, and/or other removable media cartridges or disks. One or more of the drives
may be located at remote locations on other connected computers at other sites coupled to
computer system 22.      The modules implementing the functionality of embodiments of this
invention may be stored by file storage subsystem 60.
[0026]          Bus subsystem 54 provides a mechanism for letting the various components and
subsystems of computer system 22 communicate with each other as intended.              The various
subsystems and components of computer system 22 need not be at the same physical location but
may be distributed at various locations within a distributed network. Although bus subsystem 54
is shown schematically as a single bus, alternate embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize
multiple busses.
[0027]          Computer system 22 itself can be of varying types including a personal computer,
a portable computer, a workstation, a computer terminal, a network computer, a control system
in a wavefront measurement system or laser surgical system, a mainframe, or any other data
processing system. Due to the ever-changing nature of computers and networks, the description
of computer system 22 depicted in Fig. 2 is intended only as an example for purposes of
illustrating one embodiment of this invention. Many other configurations of computer system
22, having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in Fig. 3, are possible.
[0028]          In the current state of the art, when physicians place suction ring 200 on the eye
E, they will visually estimate the centration of the suction ring 200 on the eye, E. Once the
suction ring 200 is applied to the eye, the patient interface 100 is brought down, visually centered
                                                  11

to the eye E, and then mechanically engaged to the suction ring 200 using vacuum pressure.
Because the suction ring is the first device attached onto the eye, its placement defines the
centration of the patient interface 100 over the eye E. Surgeons may thus visually estimate the
centration of the flap using the patient interface 100 as guidance. Not only may this discretion
leave room for error, but any error in the placement of the suction ring 200 and patient interface
 100 will compound the error (if any) in flap placement.
[0029]          Turning to Fig. 4, an electronic process 400 to address this issue is shown. Using
digital microscope 20, an image of the eye, E is captured (Action Block 410). Turning to Fig.
Sa, an exemplary image of eye, E, is shown on LCD Display 21. Using an image processor and
image recognition software known in the art, included, e.g., in computer system 22, the location
of certain anatomical reference points may be calculated, e.g., the location of the limbus, sclera,
pupil, iris and blood vessels (Action Block 420). Concurrently, features on the suction ring 200
(since it defines patient interface placement) can also be tracked and referenced. From these
reference points, the optimum location for the flap can be identified, such as, for example, over
the center of the pupil.    These reference points can also be used to subsequently align the
excimer laser for photoablation.        More detail about the image processing, recognition,
identification, and centration steps can be found in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,966,197; 6,283,954;
6367,931; 7431,457; and 7,480,396, which are all incorporated here by reference.
[0030}          Next, the surgeon may attach the suction ring 200 and patient interface 100 to the
eye E (Action Block 430). He or she may visually estimate the centration of the suction ring 200
and the patient interface 100 using digital microscope 20 and digital display 21.        This visual
estimation may lead to an imperfect centration, Turning to Fig. 5b, an imperfectly-centrated
                                                 12

patient interface 100 is shown. Using the image processor and imaging recognition software in
computer system 22, the imperfection can be calculated in terms of the suction ring 200 (x,y)
displacement relative to the previously located anatomical references, for example, the pupil,
limbus, etc. (See Action Block 440 in Fig. 4). Instead, of centrating the flap based solely on the
suction ring 200 and patient interface 100, the (x,y) displacement may also be incorporated into
the flap centration calculation. Thus, the flap is more precisely centrated on the eye E, based on
the location of the anatomical reference points (See Action Block 450 in Fig. 4). Turning to Fig.
5c, the image processor in computer system 22 may create an overlay 150 on the image of the
eye E on LCD Display 21 marking an ideal (e.g., precisely and accurately centrated) flap
location.   This overlay 150 may be reviewed and approved by the surgeon prior to actual
delivery of laser energy onto the eye E.
[00311          In an alternative embodiment, image processor in computer system 22 can also
create an overlay on LCD display 21 for an optimum placement of the suction ring 200 and
patient interface 100 prior to creating overlay of flap location 150, enabling the surgeon to adjust
any error in placement of the suction ring 200 and patient interface 100.
[0032]          In an alternative     embodiment, a set of sensors, such as for example,
accelerometers, gyroscopes, or magnetometers, may be mechanically registered or affixed to the
suction ring 200 to provide direct spatial information based on the appropriate reference. The
spatial information, in conjunction with the image processing for tracking of anatomical features
on the eye, will provide appropriate positioning guidance and error tracking to minimize
centration error. The addition of sensors also provides redundant information to the image
                                                  13

processing performed to track the suction ring.         This improves overall robustness of the
centration system since a cross-checking algorithm can be implemented to ensure data integrity.
[0033]          In an alternative embodiment, structured light can be implemented to provide the
appropriate Purkinje reflections for image processing to provide information on the orientation
and position of the visual axis as well as the apex of the cornea. The visual axis orientation and
corneal apex is then linked to the anatomical features (e.g. pupil, limbus, iris, blood vessels, etc.)
of the eye to enable reference after flap creation. This data set, in conjunction with the suction
ring reference, can also provide positioning guidance and error tracking to minimize centration
error.
[0034]          Although embodiments of this invention are described and pictured in an
exemplary form with a certain degree of particularity, describing the best mode contemplated of
carrying out the invention, and of the manner and process of making and using it, those skilled in
the art will understand that various modifications, alternative constructions, changes, and
variations can be made in the ophthalmic interface and method without departing from the spirit
or scope of the invention. As a specific example, any appropriate laser medium might be used to
deliver the incident laser beam without regard to the particular form and shape of the delivery
system,   Likewise, any type of image capturing, processing and recognition systems may be
used, without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Thus, it is intended that this
invention cover all modifications, alternative constructions, changes, variations, as well as the
combinations and arrangements of parts, structures, and steps that come within the spirit and
scope of the invention as generally expressed by the following claims and their equivalents.
                                                 14

1002182026
                                                CLAIMS
  What is claimed is:
  1. An ophthalmic surgical laser system for creating a corneal flap on a subject's eye,
  comprising:
          a laser delivery system;
          a suction ring configured to overlay an anterior surface of the subject's eye, the suction
 ring operatively coupled to a patient interface, wherein the patient interface is coupled to the laser
 delivery system;
          an imaging system operatively coupled to the laser delivery system and configured to
 capture a digital image of the subject's eye with the suction ring overlaying the anterior surface of
 the eye, wherein the imaging system includes a light source generating a light and wherein the
 digital image of the subject's eye includes one or more Purkinje reflections of the light;
          a computer-readable medium having a set of instructions that, when executed by a
 processor, identifies a location for creating the corneal flap, wherein the set of instructions
 comprise:
                   identifying one or more anatomical reference points in the digital image captured by
 the imaging system;
                   identifying the Purkinje reflections in the digital image and, based on the Purkinje
 reflections, generating information regarding orientation and position of a visual axis and an
 apex of a cornea of the subject's eye;
                   calculating a location of the suction ring coupled to the patient interface which has
 been placed to the subject's eye relative to the reference points and allowing for an adjustment of the
 location of the suction ring to an adjusted position by generating an overlay on the digital image that
 identifies a central location on the cornea for optimum placement of the suction ring; and
                   identifying a location on the cornea to create the corneal flap based on the adjusted
 position of the suction ring and based on the information regarding the orientation and position of
 the visual axis and the apex of the cornea.
 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of instructions include generating an overlay on the
                                                       15

1002182026
 digital image that identifies the location on the cornea to create the corneal flap.
 3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the set of instructions includes centrating the location on
 the cornea to create the flap based on the location of the suction ring coupled to the patient
 interface relative to the one or more reference points on the cornea.
 4. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the laser delivery system is an
 ultra-short pulsed laser system.
 5. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more reference points
 includes the location of at least one of a pupil, a limbus, an iris, a sclera, and a blood vessel of the
 subject's eye.
 6. A process for creating a corneal flap on a subject's eye using an ophthalmic surgical laser
 system having an imaging system and a suction ring coupled to a patient interface, comprising
 the steps of:
          capturing an image of the subject's eye using the imaging system, the image including
 one or more Purkinje reflections of a light emitted by the imaging system;
          identifying one or more anatomical reference points in the captured image;
          identifying the Purkinje reflections in the digital image and, based on the Purkinje
reflections, generating information regarding orientation and position of a visual axis and an
 apex of the cornea of the subject's eye;
          applying the suction ring coupled to the patient interface to the subject's eye;
          calculating a location of the suction ring coupled to the patient interface relative to the
reference points;
          generating an overlay on the image that identifies a central location on the cornea for optimum
placement of the suction ring, thereby allowing for an adjustment of the location of the suction ring to
 an adjusted position; and
          identifying a location on the cornea to create the flap based on the adjusted position of the
suction ring relative to the reference points on the cornea and based on the information regarding
the orientation and position of the visual axis and the apex of the cornea.
                                                       16

1002182026
 7. The method of claim 6, further including generating an overlay on the digital image that identifies
 the location on the cornea to create the corneal flap.
 8. The method of claim 6 or 7, further including centrating the location on the cornea to create the
 flap based on the location of the suction ring coupled to the patient interface relative to the one or
 more reference points on the cornea.
 9. The method of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the ophthalmic laser-based surgical system is
 an ultra-short pulsed laser system.
  10. The method of any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein the one or more reference points includes
 the location of at least one of a pupil, a limbus, an iris, a sclera, and a blood vessel of the eye.
                                                      17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
