ABSTRACT
Freeee is a proposed events platform which aims to link internet users to a single directory for
free (of cost) 'hand-out' events. This will work such that, as a condition for being registered on
the platform, event hosts are required to provide free offerings or hand-outs to their
participants, either with conditions or without.
There are three main embodiments which will feature on the Freeee platform, and for which an
innovation patent is being sought. These are as follows:
         *  The Freeee filter
         *  The Freeee Wiki
         e   A one-stop service for all event management needs.
An innovation patent is being sought for the concept, the individual as well as collective
embodiments that the Freeee platform will showcase.

                       Australia
                   Patents Act 1990
               COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                 INNOVATION PATENT
     FREEEE: An innovative website concept
The following document contains a full description
of this innovation idea, including the best method of
       performing it known to us, the creators.

   TITLE
1. Freeee: An innovative web concept
   FIELDS
2. Event Marketing and customer service
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
3. Freeee is a proposed events platform which aims to link internet users to a single directory for
   events that provide any number of free (of cost) offerings or 'hand-outs'. This will work such
   that, as a condition for being registered on the platform, event hosts are required to provide
   any number of free offerings or hand-outs to their participants, either with conditions or
   without. An example of each type is as follows:
            *   Example for a conditional free offering: participants pay 1 admission to get a
                second person's admission cost waived (i.e. free of charge)
            *   Example for a non-conditional free offering: Entry to an event is without cost to the
                attendee
4. Freeee will be available on any kind of web platforms such as, but not limited to, website, tablet
   and smart phone applications.
   BACKGROUND
5. For apparent reasons, there is an overwhelming interest in social events and gatherings which
   provide free (of cost) hand-outs or services to their attendees. To date, however, event
   technology platforms such as events giant Eventbrite do not exclusively advertise the event
   type mentioned and typically have broader representation of event cost requirements.
6. Additionally, Our own search has uncovered no publically available directory or platform for
   events, patented or otherwise, which exclusively provide free hand-outs, conditional or
   otherwise.

    DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
7. This section describes the four embodiments of the Freeee events platform. The visual aids
    shown are from an unpublished website and are provided for demonstration and clarification
    purposes only.
    Embodiment 1: Freeee Events Directory
8. The Freeee directory displays events which are grouped into several category pages. Within
    each category, a list of events is displayed through a calendar year, allowing visitors
    to browse the available events across each month. An example of a categoric display of events
    is shown in Error! Reference source not found. of the drawings attachment. A separate strip
    of events is displayed in a graphically 'stand out' fashion; this strip is known as hot events with
    an example shown in Error! Reference source not found. of the drawings.
    Embodiment 2: The Freeee Filter
9. The Freeee filter will provide users with the option to filter, shortlist and select their preferred
    event(s) occurring on a present day. Events appear one at a time so only one event is displayed
    in a given window. Users are then able to preference their event(s) of choice with a simple click
    of a button as shown in example Error! Reference source not found. of the drawings.
10. Preferenced events are grouped together in an online cart. Finally users will be able to proceed
    to RSVP or register for their preferred event(s).
    Embodiment 3: The Freeee Wiki
11. The Freeee Wiki provides users with the ability to share their positive and insightful findings to
    the platform for an internal or external event, provided that the events is compatible with the
    condition that the event caters for any number of freeee hand-outs/offerings, as outlined
    under heading 3. User reviews are published, should they choose to, in a manner shown in
    Figure 4 of the drawings.
12. The user is prompted to complete a review form (refer Figure 5 of the drawings), which aims to
    provide helpful insights to prospective attendees (for example, suitable age groups or how
    much out of pocket expenditure they can expect).
13. The recommending person will receive reward points for their post, as well as any additional
    points as a result of accrued attendees that have directly benefited from their feedback.
    Reward points are linked to a rewards program which is not detailed in this document.

    Embodiment 4: Event management - a one stop service
14. The Freeee platform provides prospective event hosts with the option to create and publicly or
    privately list an event. The event would be subject to compliance with our nominated terms of
    service, most notably that any number of free offerings (conditional or unconditional) is/are
    included in the listed event.
15. Event creation is only one of several services offered to event hosts. Event hosts are able to
    take advantage of a 'one stop' arrangement for all event management services including, but
    not limited to, the following services:
             e   Admission and ticketing
             *   Locating venues to host
             *   Advertisement and promotion
             *   Growth of brand name and clientele reach
16. Although the listing of a new event is free of charge to the host, the above services are
    chargeable should the host require them for their event. When an event is created, hosts are
    prompted to complete an online form which collects information about their event. They are
    also prompted to detail their proposed free hand-out(s)/offering(s). Examples of a free offering
    include free entry, drinks, food, take-home tokens and many more accepted offerings.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
The claims defining the unique concept of Freeee and its four embodiments are documented as follows:
    1.   Freeee events directory: The only events platform via web (including website or mobile phone application)
         within Australia for any type of public or private event which advertises any number of either a (a)
         conditional or (b) non-conditional free offering or hand-out of any kind.
    2.   The Freeee filter: An online means which provides users with the option to filter, shortlist and select their
         preferred compatible event(s) occurring on a present day and which functions per the method outlined in
         the description document.
    3.   The Freeee wiki: An online means which empowers users with the ability to share their recommendations
         and insightful event findings to the Freeee platforms; and be rewarded for it, provided the event satisfies
         the condition in claim 1.
    4.   One stop arrangement: The only events platform via web (eg. website or mobile phone application) within
         Australia that provides a wholistic provision of online event management services including, but not
         limited to the services nominated under description.
    5.   The only events platform via web which combines the concept and embodiments detailed in claims 1 to 4
         within a single online source.

              DRAWINGS
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 1 List of events across time listed for a category
              Figure 2 Stand out manner in which some events are displayed

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 5 Freeee Wiki: Example of r ecommended event review form

