ABSTRACT:
Disclosed is an economical and effective way of producing a modular retaining wall, using only
blocks (200) which in and of themselves are of insufficient thickness to function as retaining
wall blocks. The modular wall includes backer blocks (300) and facing blocks (200) which are
connected by connectors (120) in a back to back, spaced apart arrangement, thereby forming
a hollow retaining wall. The hollow wall can be filled with loose filler material (500) to increase
the mass and retaining capacity of the wall. Further disclosed are wall components and a wall
kit for a modular retaining wall. A double sided decorative wall is also disclosed. The modular
wall system allows for the construction of retaining walls and freestanding, double sided,
decorative walls forming both straight and curved walls.
Fig. 22b

39/47
   II
  ElI IIE IS I I S
      rET  F,

                                                  -1
                                         RETAINING WALL
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention is generally directed toward retaining walls and freestanding
walls. In particular, the invention is directed to modular retaining walls and to components of
such walls.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     Retaining walls are used in landscaping around residential or commercial buildings.
Retaining walls can be made of various materials, but for reasons of durability are most often
either concrete structures cast in situ or walls formed of stacked courses of natural stone or
masonry blocks. Concrete masonry blocks have become the most popular retaining wall
components, due to their ease of manufacture, transport and handling. The blocks are stacked
either manually or with the aid of machinery.
[0003]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0004]     Conventional concrete masonry blocks are either wet cast or dry cast. In the dry cast
process, a concrete mixture is filled into a mold box and compressed to generate a pre
consolidated block. This pre-block is removed from the mold box and transported to a setting
location at which the block is stored for setting of the concrete mixture. Several methods have
been developed to provide hollow dry cast blocks with a textured front surface. Molding a slab
including several blocks and subsequently braking the slab into individual blocks allows for the
creation of an irregular, rough front surface similar to the surface of a split natural stone. Such
blocks are generally referred to as split face or hardsplit blocks. Alternatively, the smooth front
surface of a finished molded block can be subjected to a percussive treatment, which brakes
up and roughens the front surface. Finally, a three dimensional surface structure can be
embossed into the front surface of the block during compression of the concrete mixture in the
mold.
[0005]     A retaining wall is also known from W02008092237, which system includes base or
wall blocks forming the actual retaining wall and decorative facing blocks or panels, which are

                                                  -2
mounted onto the wall blocks to form a decorative facing on the retaining wall. In that system,
the wall blocks are of sufficient size and mass to perform the retaining function. They may
even be able to support the facing blocks or panels. Although that system is very flexible, since
the retaining wall can be provided with many different facing surfaces, which can even be
exchanged without dismantling the wall, the base blocks suffer from the same drawbacks as
other known retaining wall blocks.
[0006]      The performance of retaining walls or freestanding walls is generally determined by
the height of the wall, the overall mass of the wall and the width or thickness of the wall at the
base, with the mass being the most critical. Local building code requirements dictate the forces
such walls must be able to withstand, which in turn limit the design possibilities in terms of
maximum wall heights for a given width and mass of a wall. Generally, the larger the mass and
the width of the wall at the base, the base width, the higher the retaining capacity or resistance
to tipping of the wall. More generally, the higher the mass, the higher the retaining capacity of
the wall. This must be taken into consideration when building retaining walls of stacked blocks.
In a conventional retaining wall of monolithic, stacked blocks, the wall blocks themselves must
have a sufficient width to provide the minimum base width and mass required for the retaining
wall. This in turn limits the maximum length and height of retaining wall blocks useful for
manual installation. It also limits the overall retaining capacity achievable with conventional,
manually installed, stacked block walls. As a result, retaining walls of higher retaining capacity
are either cast in situ or made of large blocks which must be handled with often specialized
machinery. The exposed length and height of an installed retaining wall block are normally
referred to as the length and height of the block, while the remaining dimension of the block is
referred to as the width of the block. To address the problem of excessive weight of
conventional retaining wall blocks, hollow retaining wall blocks have been developed in an
effort to reduce block weight and to thereby expand the size range of manually installed
blocks. However, using hollow blocks reduces the overall mass of the stacked retaining wall
and, thus, limits the retaining capacity of the wall achievable with hollow blocks. Thus, the
height and retaining capacity of retaining walls made of conventional monolithic blocks for
manual installation is limited, even if the blocks are sized for maximum retaining performance
(optimum width) and maximum coverage (maximum length and/or height).
[0007]      Conventional retaining wall blocks are often tapered towards the back to allow a
curved placement of the blocks for the assembly of curved walls. In walls with convex
curvature, the blocks then touch at the tapered sides, while in a straight line installation or in

                                                   -3
walls of concave curvature the blocks only touch at their front edges and comparatively large
triangular gaps or spaces are defined between the blocks at the back. Those gaps are
disadvantageous, since they reduce the overall mass of the wall and therefore the retaining
capacity of the wall.
[0008]     Modular retaining wall systems made of interconnected facing blocks and buried,
spaced apart backer blocks are known from US 4,068,482, US 5,350,256, US 5,468,098, US
5,688,078, US 7,503,729 and US2009/0041552. In those conventional walls, the wall of
stacked facing blocks principally function as the principle material retaining component of the
retaining wall, while the backer blocks have an anchoring function to reduce the tendency for
tipping of the wall. The backer blocks are generally spaced apart and buried within the material
to be retained and, thus, do not contribute to the mass and width of the wall.
[0009]     Retaining wall systems including stacked blocks with interlocking projections for
forming a hollow wall with front and back partial walls and intermediate connectors are
disclosed in US 4,490,075, US 5,403,127 and DE 2549162. However, the connectors in those
systems interlock with the blocks in the front partial wall in such a way that the ends of the
connectors/spacers between the front and back partial walls are visible in the installed
condition, giving the wall an artificial rather than natural appearance.
[0010]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]     Accordingly, in a first aspect the invention provides a modular retaining wall of
preselected height and mass per unit length for retaining loose material of equal or lesser
height, comprising
           concrete backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained;
           concrete facing blocks exposed on a front face of the retaining wall; and
           connectors connecting each concrete facing block with at least one concrete backer
block in a back to back arrangement, the concrete backer blocks being stacked into a
continuous rear wall portion of the preselected height and a first mass per unit length and
concrete facing blocks being stacked into a continuous front wall portion of the preselected
height and a second mass per unit length, a sum of the first and second mass being less than
the total mass; and the connectors maintaining the front and rear wall portions in a spaced

                                                  -4
apart position in which the front and rear wall portions define an intermediate space, the
intermediate space being filled with a loose filler material of a third mass per unit length
constituting at least the remainder of the preselected total mass per unit length, the loose filler
material being separate from the material to be retained and the intermediate space being
separated by the backer blocks from the material to be retained, wherein each connector has a
pair of connecting ends and a connector body extending between the connecting ends, the
connecting ends being shaped for supporting the connector in and interlocking engagement
with a retaining structure in one of the concrete facing blocks and a retaining structure in one
of the concrete backer blocks, respectively, the connector body being rod or web shaped for
minimizing a volume taken up by the connectors in the intermediate space and maximizing a
volume of the filler material in the intermediate space and wherein none of the backer blocks,
facing blocks and connectors are embedded in the material to be retained.
[0012]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0013]      In a second aspect the invention provides a method of forming a corner of first and
second intersecting retaining walls each retaining wall for retaining a loose material of a
predetermined first height, each retaining wall having a second height at least equal to the first
height and a minimum total mass per unit length required for retaining the loose material of the
first height, each retaining wall assembled in accordance with the method comprising the steps
of:
            obtaining a plurality of concrete facing blocks respectively having a back surface and
a front surface, and a known mass;
            obtaining a plurality of concrete backer blocks respectively having a back surface
and a front surface, and a known mass,
            determining a first mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked concrete
facing blocks of the second height;
            determining a second mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked concrete
backer blocks of the second height;
            determining a required volume of a loose filler material of known density needed per
unit length of the wall to provide a third mass of filler material equal to at least a difference
between the total mass per unit length and the sum of the first and second mass per unit

                                                  -5
length;
           stacking the concrete facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form
a continuous front wall portion of concrete facing blocks and having the second height and a
continuous rear wall portion of concrete backer blocks having the second height;
           during stacking of the concrete facing and backer blocks, connecting the back
surface of each concrete facing block in the front wall portion with the back surface of a least
one concrete backer block in the rear wall portion with a connector for connecting the front and
rear wall portions in the back-to-back orientation and forming an intermediate space for
receiving the filler material, a length of the connectors being selected for the intermediate
space having a volume per unit length at least equal to the required volume, whereby the
backer blocks are stacked against the material to be retained without embedding the backer
blocks in the material to be retained to separate the intermediate space from the material to be
retained; and
           filling the interior space with the loose filler material to form the retaining wall of the
minimum total mass;
           said method of forming the corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls,
including the steps of
           placing at least one of the concrete backer blocks of the first wall at the corner within
the intermediate space of the second wall; and
           placing at least one of the concrete backer blocks of the second wall at the corner
within the intermediate space of the first wall
[0014]     In a third aspect the invention provides a modular wall system for constructing a
freestanding retaining wall for retaining a loose material of a predetermined height, the
retaining wall having a rear face for placement against the loose material to be retained, an
exposed front face and a predetermined base width and total mass per unit length sufficient for
maintaining the retaining wall upright against a pressure exerted by the loose material at the
preselected height, the system comprising
           backer blocks stackable against the loose material and into a continuous rear wall
portion of the preselected height, for forming the rear face, the rear wall portion having a first
mass;
           facing blocks stackable into a continuous front wall portion of the preselected height
for forming the front face, the front wall portion having a second mass, a sum of the first and
second mass being less than the total mass;
           connectors for connecting each facing block in the front wall portion with at least one

                                                  -6
backer block in the rear wall portion to form an intermediate hollow space of fixed volume
between the front and back wall portions, the fixed volume being defined by the preselected
height of the retaining wall and a length of the connectors, the intermediate space being
separated from the loose material by the rear wall portion; and
            an amount of loose filler material of a known density for filling the fixed volume, the
length of the connectors being selected for a width of the retaining wall being at least equal to
the base width and the amount of loose filler material having an overall third mass constituting
at least the remainder of the total mass.
[0015]      In another aspect the invention provides a kit for constructing a freestanding
retaining wall for retaining a loose material of a predetermined height, the retaining wall having
a rear face for placement against the loose material to be retained, an exposed front face and
a predetermined base width and total mass per unit length sufficient for maintaining the
retaining wall upright against a pressure exerted by the loose material at the preselected
height, comprising
            x number of backer blocks and y number of facing blocks, the facing blocks being
stackable into a continuous front wall portion and the backer blocks being stackable into a
continuous rear wall portion for placement against the material to be retained;
            connectors for connecting the backer blocks with the facing blocks in a back to back
arrangement for the front and rear wall portions to define an intermediate space for filling with
loose filler material when the facing blocks and backer blocks are connected by the connectors
in the back to back arrangement, the connectors each having at least two connecting ends for
respective interlocking engagement with a facing block and a backer block and each of the
facing and backer blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively
receiving one of the connecting ends;
            instructions for selecting a length of the connectors to adjust a volume of the
intermediate space so that a mass of the filler material in the intermediate space together with
a mass of the front wall portion and a mass of the rear wall portion adding up to at least the
total mass; and
            an amount of loose filler material of a known density, the amount of loose filler
material having an overall third mass constituting at least the remainder of the total mass.
[0016]      Advantageously, the invention provides an improved modular wall system for
manually installed retaining walls.

                                                 -7
[0017]     In a preferred aspect the invention provides a retaining wall system including backer
blocks, facing blocks, and connecting spacers or connectors for connecting the backer and
facing blocks at a preselected spacing. In one embodiment, a modular retaining wall system is
provided for the construction of a retaining wall having a preselected total mass, which system
includes backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained and stackable into a
continuous rear wall portion of a first mass; facing blocks to be exposed in the installed
condition of the wall system and stackable into a continuous front wall portion of a second
mass, a sum of the first and second mass being less than the total mass; and connectors for
connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a spaced apart back to back
arrangement, the connectors having a length for forming between the front and back wall
portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a third mass constituting
at least the remainder of the total mass.
[0018]     In another preferred embodiment, a modular retaining wall system is provided for the
construction of a retaining wall having a preselected height and total mass, the system
including backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained; facing blocks to be
exposed in the installed condition of the wall system; and connectors for connecting each
facing block with at least one backer block in a spaced apart back to back arrangement, the
backer blocks and facing blocks when connected by the connectors being respectively
stackable into a continuous rear wall portion of the preselected height and a first mass and a
continuous front wall portion of the preselected height and a second mass, a sum of the first
and second mass being less than the total mass; and
           the connectors having a length for forming between the continuous front and back
wall portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a third mass
constituting at least the remainder of the total mass.
[0019]     Preferably, the backer and facing blocks are stackable into respective front and rear
wall portions of the retaining wall, when connected by the connectors. In one embodiment,
each wall portion has an insufficient width to function as a retaining wall itself. In another
embodiment, the facing and backer blocks are even of insufficient width to respectively allow
stacking into a front or rear wall portion of the selected height of the retaining wall. During
assembly of the wall, the intermediate space between the backer and facing blocks is filled
with loose filler material, such as earth, sand gravel, crushed stone, or the like to achieve a
wall of a preselected mass.

                                                   -8
[0020]     The present inventors have surprisingly discovered that a reliable and effective
retaining wall structure can be constructed using blocks, which are of insufficient width and
mass to function as retaining wall or freestanding wall themselves and providing the remaining
mass by way of a loose filler material in between front and back wall portions. Despite the filler
material being loose, to enable filling of the intermediate space between the front and back
wall portions, the inventors have surprising discovered that the finished retaining wall has the
same retaining capacity as a solid wall of equal mass per unit length. The backer and facing
blocks according to the invention have a small width and, thus, are much thinner and lighter
than conventional retaining wall blocks of equal coverage (length X height). As a result, the
wall blocks are much easier to handle and install manually. Of course, backer and facing
blocks which are comparable in weight to conventional retaining wall blocks can be produced,
which will then provide a much larger coverage than conventional blocks.
[0021]     All blocks of the wall system of this application have a width, which is insufficient for
the blocks to function as retaining wall blocks. Thus, to make the system functional as a
retaining wall, two wall portions, made of the facing and backer blocks respectively, must be
assembled and connected back to back by the connectors in order to form a hollow wall and
the intermediate space must be filled with filler material to create a retaining wall of sufficient
mass to reliably function as a retaining wall. The retaining wall system of this application is
easily adapted to different building code requirements with respect to width and mass of the
wall, without any changes to the backer or facing blocks being necessary. The base width of
the wall can be adjusted by selecting connectors of different length. The mass of the wall
consists of the combined mass of the wall portions and the mass of the filler material. The
required total mass of the wall for a given retaining capacity is achieved by selecting a
connector length which generates sufficient spacing between the front and rear wall portions
so that, for a filler material of given density, the mass of the filler material makes up the at least
the difference between the total mass and the combined mass. In order to allow filling of the
hollow wall and avoid loss of the loose filler material from the wall, each partial wall must be
continuous and free of gaps. That means the facing and backer blocks are stacked end-to-end
in the front and rear wall portions to avoid a leaking of the filler material.
[0022]     The backer and facing blocks are preferably cast concrete blocks, such as wet cast
or dry cast concrete blocks. In this description, the terms cast concrete block, or cast block, are
intended to include both wet cast and dry cast concrete blocks. In one embodiment, the facing
blocks are cast blocks with a patterned, decorative surface. In another embodiment, the facing

                                                 -9
blocks are dry cast concrete blocks with an embossed decorative front surface, more
preferably with an embossed, patterned decorative front surface. The facing blocks may also
be constructed as cast concrete blocks with a veneer of natural stone attached thereto.
[0023]     The facing blocks and backer blocks each have a front and back surface and are
stacked in a back to back orientation in the form of first and second walls which are spaced
apart connected by way of the connectors to form an overall hollow wall assembly. The
connectors are preferably removably connectable to the back surface of the backer and/or
facing blocks. Preferably, every facing block in the first wall is connected with at least one
backer block in the second wall. The hollow wall assembly is then filled with a filler material of
desired weight or density to achieve a retaining wall of a desired mass.
[0024]     In another preferred aspect, the invention provides a wall kit including at least a
facing block having a back surface and a decorative front surface, at least a backer block
having a back surface and a front surface, and a connector for connecting the facing and
backer blocks in a back-to-back arrangement.
[0025]     Preferably, each facing block and backer block has at least one retaining structure
on its back surface, either in the form of a retaining recess in the back surface or a retaining
protrusion protruding from the back surface and the connector has at least a pair of
interlocking members each for engaging the retaining structure in one of the facing or backer
blocks respectively, to connect the blocks in a back to back arrangement. The retaining
recesses may be keyhole slots or dovetail slots and the connector preferably has a central web
or rod with opposite, terminally positioned enlarged portions forming the first and second
interlocking members respectively. Each interlocking member is preferably shaped and
constructed for interlocking engagement with a retaining recess. In one embodiment, the
retaining protrusions are dovetail shaped protrusions with an undercut for engagement by an
interlocking member on the connector. However, any other construction of the retaining
structures and interlocking members is possible which ensures reliable permanent or
releasable interlocking of the interlocking members with the retaining structures.
[0026]     In yet another preferred aspect, the invention provides a modular wall system
including individual stackable wall components in the form of the facing and backer blocks
discussed above and connectors for connecting the wall components in a back to back
arrangement. The facing and backer blocks may be of equal or different thickness and may

                                               -10
have different lengths and widths. The facing and backer blocks preferably have the same
base height or a multiple of the base height. The blocks of the preferred wall system all have
graduated lengths, each length being a multiple of a base length or pitch which is preferably
equal to a thickness or base width W of the facing blocks. Thus, the blocks may have lengths
of 2W, 3W, 4W, 5W, 6W.... To facilitate the formation of walls with corners or ends, such as
right angled corners, the back-to-back arrangement preferably has an overall thickness which
is equal to a multiple of W.
[0027]     The blocks of the modular wall system are stackable in rows and each include at
least one retaining recess in a back surface and each connector preferably has a body and
opposing first and second interlocking members for respectively engaging the retaining recess
in one of the blocks for interconnecting the blocks in the back-to-back arrangement. The
resulting hollow wall assembly is then converted into a retaining wall by filling the intermediate
space between the back-to-back first and second walls with loose filler material such as
crushed stone, gravel or soil, or setting materials, such as concrete. The retaining grooves in
the facing and backer blocks are preferably spaced apart by 1W to facilitate connection of the
blocks at a corner and for providing a preselected breaking point for the block at intervals of
1W. A special corner assembly can be used to reinforce the corner connection, or special
corner connectors can be used.
[0028]     The inventors of the present application have surprisingly discovered that providing a
hollow wall made of relatively thin facing and backer blocks and filled with filler material can
result in a retaining wall of much improved integrity and retaining capacity compared to walls
made of stacked rows of full width blocks, since the filler material, especially crushed stone,
not only provides added mass, but provides additional interlocking between the stacked rows
of facing and backer blocks, which counteracts the problem of row displacement observed in
retaining walls of stacked rows of monolithic blocks.
[0029]     In an alternate embodiment, the length of the connectors is variable to permit the
selection of a desired spacing between the first and second partial walls and, thus, of the
overall wall width and mass. In another embodiment the spacing of the retaining recesses in
the facing and/or backer blocks is selected to be less than W, to permit placement of fixed
length connectors at an angle other than 900 to the wall and the blocks.

                                                 - 11
[0030]     The wall in accordance with a preferred aspect, the invention can be built in situ, and
preferably uses only the facing and backer blocks as wall components and their connectors.
The connectors are preferably constructed with multiple connecting ends to engage at least a
pair of blocks in a back-to-back arrangement. The connecting ends can be joined by
interconnecting webs. The connectors are dimensioned to occupy as little as possible of the
space between the back-to-back block walls to thereby maximize the amount of fill which can
be placed in the space between the back-to-back blocks. The connectors are preferably
constructed of a material which provides sufficient flexibility for interlocking engagement of the
connectors with the blocks, even when the connector is not perfectly aligned with the
complementary retaining structure in the block, while resisting longitudinal extension. Thus, the
connectors are preferably flexible but non-extendible.
[0031]     The wall of the present application can be assembled straight or curved. Curved
hollow walls made of a pair of spaced apart parallel wall portions, provide the additional
challenge that due to the curvature of the wall, the outer portion wall is longer than the inner
portion wall, which leads to a mismatching of the blocks in the inner and outer portion wall of
the curved hollow wall. Moreover, maintaining the inner and outer portion wall continuous is
important for avoiding loss of the loose fill. Misalignment of the facing and backer wall portions
in a curved wall also creates challenges with interconnecting the facing and backer wall
portions, since the retaining structures in respectively opposing blocks are no longer aligned.
This problem is addressed by providing one of the facing and backer blocks with retaining
structures spaced apart by one pitch (1W), to allow for the assembly of a wall end or corner,
and the other of the facing and backer blocks with retaining structures spaced apart by less
than 1W, or by making the connectors of a dimensionally stable, but flexible material, or both.
Dimensionally stable yet flexible means the connectors are flexible, to allow interconnection
with retaining structures on the facing or backer blocks which retaining structures are not
perfectly aligned with the connector, while maintaining a fixed length. In other words, the
connectors are flexible but not extendible in length. The backer blocks may have rounded ends
to ensure an end-to-end engagement of the backer blocks without intermediate gaps, even in
curved installations. The backer and facing blocks may also have a T-shaped horizontal cross
section in order to facilitate the stacking of the facing and backer blocks in a curved
arrangement. In a preferred embodiment, the facing blocks have vertical retaining grooves in
their rear surface which are spaced apart by 1W and the backer blocks have retaining grooves
which are spaced apart by 1/2W. Alternatively, all blocks can have retaining structures in the
form of vertical grooves spaced apart by 1/2W.

                                                 - 12
[0032]     In still another preferred embodiment, the invention provides a kit for forming a wall.
The kit includes a number of facing blocks with a total coverage area of X and a number of
backer blocks having the same coverage area. Preferably, the kit includes X facing blocks, and
an equal number of backer blocks and connectors for connecting the facing and backer blocks
in a back-to-back arrangement. The facing and backer blocks when connected by the
connectors are stackable into front and back wall portions, respectively. The blocks of each kit
may be molded in a single mold frame to facilitate manufacture, packaging and transport.
[0033]     In one preferred embodiment, the modular retaining wall system further includes cap
blocks for covering a top of the retaining wall. In this embodiment, the modular retaining wall
system preferably further includes coping support connectors between a top row of the facing
blocks and a top row of the backer blocks in the wall, the coping support connectors in addition
to the pair of connecting ends including a support for supporting at least one of the cap blocks
in the installed condition.
[0034]     In another preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method for assembling a
retaining wall having a preselected height and total mass per unit length, comprising the steps
of obtaining a plurality of facing blocks respectively having a back surface and a front surface,
the facing blocks being cast concrete blocks with a patterned decorative front surface and a
known mass; obtaining a plurality of backer blocks respectively having a back surface and a
front surface, the backer blocks being cast concrete blocks having a known mass; determining
a first mass per unit length of a wall of stacked facing blocks of the selected height;
determining a second mass per unit length of a wall of stacked backer blocks of the selected
height; determining a required volume of a filler material of known density needed per until
length of the wall to provide a mass of filler material equal to at least a difference between the
total mass per unit length and the sum of the first and second mass per unit length; stacking
the facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form a continuous front wall
portion of facing blocks and having the preselected height and a continuous rear wall portion of
backer blocks having the preselected height; during stacking of the facing and backer blocks,
connecting the back surface of each facing block in the front wall portion with the back surface
of a least one backer block in the rear wall portion with a connector for connecting the front
and rear wall portions in the back-to-back orientation and forming an interior space for
receiving the filler material, a length of the connectors being selected for the interior space
having a volume at least equal to the required volume; and filling the interior space with the
required volume of the filler material to form the retaining wall of the preselected total mass.

                                                 -13
[0035]     In another preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method for forming a
corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls in accordance with the invention. The
method includes the steps of placing at least one of the backer blocks of the first wall at the
corner within the interior space of the second wall. Preferably, the method includes the further
step of placing at least one of the backer blocks of the second wall at the corner within the
interior space of the first wall. Most preferably, the steps of placing the at least one backer
block of the first wall and placing the at least one backer block of the second wall are carried
out for each horizontal row of backer blocks. In a variant of the method, at the corner and in
each row of backer blocks, the row of backer blocks of one of the first and second walls is
continuous with the backer block placed within the interior space of the other of the first and
second walls.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0036]     Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be further described by way of
example only and with reference to the attached drawings, wherein
[0037]     FIG. 1 is a schematic top view of a modular wall as disclosed, including facing and
backer blocks connected back-to-back to form a hollow retaining wall;
[0038]     FIG. 2 is a perspective view of facing and backer blocks connected with a connector
for use in a wall as disclosed;
[0039]     FIGs. 3a and 3b are perspective views of the decorative wall of FIG. 1 with facing
and backer blocks connected in a back-to-back arrangement, and filled with gravel;
[0040]     FIGs. 4a and 4b are perspective views of a different exemplary modular wall
including different connectors, whereby FIG. 4b shows the wall filled with gravel;
[0041]     FIGs. 5a and 5b are front and rear views of the wall of FIG. 4a; and FIG. 5c is an end
view of the wall of FIG. 3a.
[0042]     FIGs. 6a to 6e illustrate different steps in the assembly of a modular wall as
disclosed;
[0043]     FIG. 7 shows a rod type connector for use in a modular wall as disclosed;

                                                - 14
[0044]     FIG. 8 shows a web type connector for use in a modular retaining wall as disclosed;
[0045]     FIGs. 9a to 9b show different web type connectors and corner connectors for use in
a modular wall as disclosed;
[0046]     FIG. 10 shows a block with dovetail shaped retaining protrusions and a spring steel
connector with clip shaped interlocking members for elastic and removable engagement with
the retaining protrusions;
[0047]     FIGs. 11 a to 11 c are front and rear perspective views of different backer blocks as
disclosed;
[0048]     FIGs. 12a to 12d are front and rear perspective views of embossed face and split
face facing blocks as disclosed;
[0049]     FIGs. 13a to 13c are a schematic illustrations of a mold frame arrangement for the
molding of the facing and backer blocks for a wall kit;
[0050]     FIGs. 14 to 14f show different retaining walls as disclosed including structures to
create a setback for consecutive rows;
[0051]     FIGs. 15 to 15c illustrate an end-to-end connection of the backer blocks;
[0052]     FIGs. 16a and 16b illustrate the principle of vertically interlocking or connecting
successive rows of facing or backer blocks;
[0053]     FIGs. 17a to 17c illustrate the principle of supporting a coping or wall cap having a
depth smaller than the wall assembly, using a specialized connector;
[0054]     FIGs. 18a and 18b illustrate a specialized facing block and its incorporation into a
wall as disclosed;
[0055]     FIGs. 19a to 19c illustrate a decorative freestanding wall made with hardsplit facing
blocks;

                                                 -15
[0056]      FIGs. 20a and 20b illustrate a wall system with facing and backer blocks of different
sizes;
[0057]      FIGs. 21a to 21 e illustrate different orientations of the interlocking between the
connectors and the blocks;
[0058]       FIGs. 22a and 22b illustrate schematically the relationship between total mass of the
retaining wall and the length of the connectors;
[0059]      FIGs. 23a to 23d illustrate schematically a corner assembly for the retaining wall of
the invention; and
[0060]      FIGs. 24a to 24d illustrate a retaining wall with setback.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0061]      Before explaining the present invention in detail, it is to be understood that the
invention is not limited to the preferred embodiments contained herein. The invention is
capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or carried out in a variety of ways. It is
to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of
description and not of limitation.
[0062]      FIG. 1 and FIGs. 6a to 6e illustrate the method in accordance with the invention of
constructing a modular wall 100, such as a retaining wall, by connecting pairs of wall blocks,
namely facing blocks 200 and backer blocks 300 in a back-to-back arrangement with an
intermediate space filled with a filler material 500. The facing blocks 200 have a decorative
surface 210, in the illustrated embodiment. Each facing block 200 is connected by way of
connectors 120, with at least one backer block. The facing blocks 200 and backer blocks 300
in the illustrated embodiment have rear faces 214 and 314 which are provided with a plurality
of retaining structures, in this embodiment keyhole slots 102 for engagement by interlocking
members of the connectors 120. The preferred connectors 120, which are discussed in more
detail with reference to FIGS. 8 and 9a-9c have at least a pair of spaced apart parallel,
interlocking members 122 interconnected by an intermediate rod or web 124. The interlocking
members 122 each engage and are reliably held in a keyhole slot 102 provided in the rear face
214 or 314 of the wall blocks. The wall is preferably made of stacked wall blocks as illustrated
in the attached Figures. For ease of use, the connectors 120 are preferably symmetrical, which

                                                -16
means the interlocking members 122 are identical in cross-section and size, but non
symmetrical variants with interlocking members 122 of different diameter and cross-sectional
shape can also be used.
[0063]     FIGs. 12a and 12b illustrate an exemplary facing block 200 for use in a wall in
accordance with the invention. The facing block 200 is a cast concrete block, preferably a dry
cast block, which was compressed in the top to bottom direction during manufacture and has a
front surface 212 and a back surface 214. However, the facing block 200 can also have a split
face front surface 212, or an embossed decorative surface 212, more preferably an embossed,
patterned surface. In a facing block 200 provided with an embossed or patterned front surface
212, the front surface is the top surface during molding. The facing block 200 has multiple
spaced apart parallel keyhole slots 102, in its back surface 214 (bottom surface during molding
of a dry cast block). Each keyhole slot 102 has a slot portion 202 penetrating the back surface
214 of the facing block 200 and a cylindrical bore portion 206 connected thereto. The
interlocking members 122 of the connectors 120 are respectively inserted into the keyhole slot
bore portion 206 to mount the facing blocks 200 in a back-to-back arrangement with the backer
blocks 300 (see FIGs. 1 and 2). The facing block 200 is preferably sized and shaped to permit
stacking into a continuous wall portion. However, the width of the facing blocks 200 is
insufficient for the stacked facing blocks to function as a retaining wall. The width may even be
so small that stacking the facing blocks into any wall is difficult without connecting them to
backer blocks. The facing blocks 200 preferably all have a base width W and the keyhole slots
102 are preferably spaced apart by W or a multiple of W.
[0064]     FIGs. 11 a to 11 c illustrate exemplary backer blocks 300 which may be used in a wall
in accordance with the invention. In this example, the backer block 300 is a cast concrete
block, preferably a dry cast concrete block, which was compressed in the top to bottom
direction during manufacture and has a front surface 312 and a back surface 314. Other types
of cast concrete blocks may also be used, which may be manufactured in a standard mold
frame or a big board mold. The backer block 300 of FIGs. 11 a and 11 b has in its back surface
314 multiple spaced apart parallel retaining structures, in this embodiment keyhole slots 102.
However, retaining structures in the form of keyhole shaped recesses or keyhole slots 102 can
be provided on the front and back surfaces 312, 314 of the backer block, as well as in the end
surface 315. Each keyhole slot 102 has a slot portion 202 penetrating the back surface 314 of
the backer block 300 and a cylindrical bore portion 206 connected thereto (see FIG. 11 a). The
interlocking members 122 of the connectors 120 are respectively inserted into the bore portion

                                                 -17
206 to mount the backer blocks 300 in a back-to-back arrangement with the facing blocks 200
(see FIGs. 11 c and 1 and 2). The backer block 300 is preferably sized and shaped to permit
stacking into a continuous wall portion. However, the width of the backer blocks 300 is
insufficient for the stacked backer blocks to function as a retaining wall. The width may even
be so small that stacking the backer blocks into any wall is difficult without connecting them to
the facing blocks.
[0065]      To facilitate the construction of curved walls, the backer block 300 preferably has
shaped ends, such as rounded ends 310, or stepped ends, which allow placement of the
backer blocks 300 end to end and at an angle to one another without any spacing between the
ends 310. This means a curved wall made with the modular wall system of this application has
a continuous back surface and no spaces or gaps, as in conventional retaining walls, which
increases the overall mass and, thus, the retaining capacity and stability of the wall. In order to
ensure that the backer blocks 300 can always be stacked to form a continuous wall and still
each be connected to the facing blocks 200 by at least two connectors 120, the backer blocks
300 preferably have a larger number of keyhole slots 102 than the facing blocks 200. The
spacing of the keyhole slots 102 in the backer blocks 300 may be less than the base width W
of the facing blocks to facilitate the assembly of curved, continuous backer block walls. The
spacing of the keyhole slots 102 in the backer blocks 300 may be 1/2W or less. This facilitates
the stacking of the backer blocks 300 into a wall with no intermediate gaps or spaces, even in
curved walls. Alternatively, the keyhole slots 102 in the backer blocks 300 may be spaced at
W, or a multiple thereof, with the keyhole slots 102 and the facing blocks 200 being spaced at
less than W, or 1/2W. In still another alternative, all keyhole slots 102 in all blocks are spaced
at 1/2W.
[0066]     The backer block 300 in its front surface 312 also preferably includes a set of vertical
notches 330 to facilitate breaking of the block into smaller parts without the need for cutting
equipment. As seen in FIGs. 11a and 11b, the notches 330 are preferably placed at 1/4, 1/2
and 2/3 of the length of the block. Of course, the notches 330 can be placed at any desired
location in the front surface 312. The backer block 300 is preferably sized and shaped to
permit stacking into a continuous wall portion. However, the width of the backer blocks 300 is
insufficient for the stacked backer blocks to function as a retaining wall.
[0067]     FIGs. 3a, 3b, 4a, 4b, 5a to 5c and 6a to 6e illustrate modular walls in accordance
with this application and their method of assembly. The decorative facing blocks 200 and the

                                                 -18
backer blocks 300 are arranged spaced apart parallel with their back surfaces 214 and 314
facing one another. Connectors 120 are then inserted into the keyhole slots 102 to connect the
facing and backer blocks in the back-to-back orientation. Each facing block 200, preferably a
facing block intended for providing a decorative finish on a wall or wall block, is provided with a
decorative facing surface. The modular wall 100 is preferably made of a multitude of backer
blocks 300 stacked in rows to form a rear wall portion 301 and a multitude of facing blocks 200
stacked in rows to form a front wall portion 201, which wall portions are spaced apart parallel
and connected in a back-to-back orientation by the intermediate connectors 120. All of the
backer blocks 300 and facing blocks 200 are of a width insufficient for the first or second
portions wall to individually function as a retaining wall. The facing blocks 200 have a base
width W and multiple parallel keyhole slots 102 which are spaced apart by W, whereas the
keyhole slots 102 in the backer blocks 300 may be spaced apart by less than W. Preferably,
for the facing blocks 200, the spacing is W or a multiple of W and the spacing of the keyhole
slots 102 in the backer blocks 300 is less than W preferably 1/2W. Keyhole slots 102 may also
be spaced at 1/2W in both the facing and backer blocks 200, 300.
[0068]     In one embodiment, the invention provides a kit for forming a retaining wall. The kit
includes X facing blocks 200 and an equal number of backer blocks 300 and connectors 120
for connecting the facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back arrangement, for forming a
hollow retaining wall. The facing and backer blocks are all stackable for forming a wall portion,
but are of insufficient width for the wall portion to form a retaining wall. The blocks of each kit
may be molded in a single mold frame 400 as shown in FIG. 13, to facilitate manufacture,
packaging and transport. Molding an equal number of facing and backer blocks in the same
mold frame allows the stacking of the blocks produced from each frame as consecutive layers
on a pallet, thereby giving the installer of the blocks always access to the right number of
facing and backer blocks at all times during installation. Preferably, the facing blocks 200 are
split face blocks and are molded in pairs and subsequently split. This allows the casting of 8
blocks in each standard frame 400, two back-to-back facing block pairs 200a and four
separate backer blocks 300, while otherwise only 7 blocks of 7cm thickness could be cast.
[0069]     The interconnection of the back-to-back facing and backer blocks is preferably
carried out on a row by row basis, as each row of facing and backer blocks is finished, so that
the connectors need not be forced through the keyhole slots of more than one block. In the
alternative, only the insertion of the connectors into one partial wall is done on a row by row

                                                   -19
 basis. However, this will require moving facing blocks for the other partial wall along several
connectors, which may increase the time required for installation of the complete wall.
 [0070]      Facing blocks of different sizes can be used in the same wall as shown in Figs. 20a
to 20c. As will be apparent from the drawings, in order to facilitate the close fitting of facing
 blocks of different sizes, the height of all facing blocks is a multiple of a base height H,
 normally the height of the smallest blocks. The length of the facing blocks is a multiple of the
 base width W of the facing blocks, in order to ensure a close fit of all blocks in corners or at
ends of the wall. The base width and length of the backer blocks preferably follows the same
 rules.
 [0071]     Jumper blocks can be included in the wall, which are larger in size than the
 remaining blocks and possibly rotated by 900. When jumper blocks of the same principle
construction as the surrounding blocks are used, which are rotated by 900, the facing block
 back-to-back thereto is preferably installed immediately after placement of the jumper block
and before the rows of blocks around the jumper block are finished. Sliding of the facing block
onto the connector in the jumper block may no longer be possible once the connectors of the
adjoining blocks are installed, due to their orientation perpendicular thereto. However, where
jumper blocks are used which have keyhole slots oriented 900 to those of regular blocks,
 installation of the facing block back-to-back onto the jumper block can be carried out in the
ordinary course of installation since the slots in the jumper block are then parallel to those in
the surrounding blocks. In addition, connectors can be used which have a pair of connecting
 members oriented at 90' to one another, which assists in connecting blocks that are rotated
 by 90' or blocks which have vertical and horizontal connecting recesses. For added stability of
the decorative wall, the connectors can be inserted into the keyhole slots so that they each
engage a pair of facing blocks in vertically adjacent rows of facing blocks and thereby not only
connect the first and second walls, but also the stacked rows. The alignment of consecutive
 horizontal rows of blocks can be offset to the back in order to create a slightly backwardly
slanted retaining wall. This can be achieved with the setback structures or connectors shown
 in Figs. 14a to 14f, or Figs. 24a to 24d.
 [0072]     The wall in accordance with the invention can be built in situ, and preferably uses
only the facing blocks 200, the backer blocks 300, the connectors 120 and the filler material
500. Connectors of different construction are illustrated in FIGs. 7, 8, 9a and 9b, and 24a to
24d. The connectors 120 preferably all have the same basic construction with at least a pair of

                                                - 20
interlocking members 122 to engage at least a pair of blocks in a back-to-back arrangement
and an intermediate connector body 124 in the form of a web or rod. The connectors can
include multiple connecting members joined by multiple intermediate connector bodies 124,
such as interconnecting webs, for example oriented in a crossing arrangement to provide
lateral stability to the back-to-back arrangement. The connectors 120 can be made of any
material sufficiently strong to reliably connect the facing and backer blocks 200, 300 of the
partial walls. The connectors are preferably made of any material which will be resistant to
deterioration upon exposure to the elements, soil, gravel and the like. The most preferred
material is plastic, although non-corroding metal alloys or metal connectors with a non
corroding surface finish can also be used. The exact construction of the connectors 120 and
their connecting ends 122 can vary widely and can be achieved through machining of
materials (such as bending and welding) or with molding techniques (such as injection molding
or extruding). Although the form or shape of the connecting ends 122 can vary widely, they
must be of sufficient size and/or of an appropriate shape to allow insertion into the bore portion
206 of the keyhole slot 102, while preventing pulling of the connecting end 122 through the slot
portion 202 of the keyhole slot 102. For the assembly of curved walls, the connectors also are
preferably constructed of a material which allows lateral flexibility of the connectors so that a
misaligned insertion of the connectors into the retaining structures of the facing and backer
blocks is possible, while ensuring longitudinal dimensional stability. In other words, the
connectors are preferably flexible, but non-extensible.
[0073]     FIG. 8 illustrates a rod type connector 120 in accordance with the application. The
rod type connector includes a pair of connecting ends 122, made of a bent rod with two or
more undulations, welded to a rod shaped interconnecting body 124.
[0074]     FIGs. 9a - 9c illustrate embodiments of an injection molded type connector 120 in
accordance with the application, which is preferably of symmetrical construction to facilitate its
use in the decorative wall of the invention in different orientations. The connector 120 includes
a planar web 124 with opposite ends 125, 126 and a stem portion 122 at each of the ends. The
stem portion 122 is preferably cylindrical, for interfacing with the keyhole slots 102 in the facing
or backer blocks, but can be of any shape with allows engagement with the retaining recess in
a facing or backer block and prevents the connector being pulled out of the retaining recess.
Although the connectors 120 shown in FIGs. 9a to 9c include interlocking members 122 in the
form of generally cylindrical stems intended for being mounted to the facing blocks 200 by
sliding them along the keyhole slots 102, connectors with stems of different cross-section can

                                                -21
also be used, the only requirement being that the stems have a shape and thickness which
prevents the connection being pulled through the slot portion 202 of the keyhole slot in which it
is engaged. Reinforcing flanges 128 are preferably provided on the web 124 and the
interconnecting members 122 preferably have flexible or spring biased locking members 129
which lock the stems in the bore portion 206 of the keyhole slot 102 to maintain the connectors
120 stationary in the blocks until the hollow wall 100 is filled with the loose filler material.
[0075]      Different types of injection molded or extruded corner connectors 127 are shown in
Figures 8, 9a and 9b. The extruded corner connectors 127 are especially economically
manufactured. All corner connectors 127 have at least two interconnecting members 122 and
an interconnecting body 124 which may include multiple webs 130 and reinforcing flanges 128.
Furthermore, connector and retaining groove combinations other than those particularly
exemplified can be used without deviating from the present invention. For example connectors
of the snap in type can be used (see FIG. 10). Although corners can be formed in the modular
retaining wall of this application by using these corner connectors, a different corner assembly
method, which does not involve the use of specialized connectors is also part of this invention
and will be described further below with reference to Figs. 23a to 23d.
[0076]     The keyhole slots 102 in the facing and backer blocks 200, 300 will now be
discussed in more detail with reference to FIGs. 1, 11 a to 11 c and Figs. 12 a and 12b. Each
keyhole slot 102 has a slot portion 202 penetrating the rear surface 214, of a facing block 200
or the rear, front or end surface 314, 312 or 315 of a backer block 300 and a cylindrical bore
portion 206 connected thereto. The cylindrical bore portion 206 is sized and shaped for
receiving one of the interconnecting members 122 of the connectors. The slot portion 202 is
sized and shaped for receiving the interconnecting body 124 of the connector 120, the width of
the slot portion 202 being less than the size (diameter) of the connecting end 122 in order to
prevent the connector 120 being pulled out of the keyhole slot 102 through the slot portion 202.
For maximum flexibility in connecting the facing and backer blocks 200, 300 to one another,
the blocks 200, 300 preferably have at least a pair of keyhole slots 102 in the rear surface 214,
314. When multiple keyhole slots 102 are provided, the slots are preferably parallel and
equidistantly spaced on the rear surface 214, 314 of the facing and backer blocks 200, 300 or
the front surface and end surface 312, 315 of the backer blocks. The slots are preferably
oriented vertically or horizontally and centered on the blocks when in the installed condition.
Although other orientations of the slots are possible those orientations may make assembly of
the decorative wall more challenging. The keyhole slots 102 preferably extend completely

                                                 - 22
across the rear surface 214, 314 of the facing and backer blocks 200, 300 or the front or end
surface 312, 315 of the backer blocks. Facing and backer blocks 200, 300 with retaining
structures in the form of recesses or keyhole slots 102 which extend vertically in the installed
condition of the blocks are shown in Figs. 12a to 12d. Backer blocks 300 and facing blocks
with retaining recesses extending horizontally in the installed condition of the blocks are shown
in Figs. 11d and 12e respectively.
[0077]     Of course, it will be readily apparent to the art skilled person that a retaining structure
other than keyhole slots can be provided in the blocks 200, 300 as long as a reliable
interlocking engagement between the retaining structure and the connectors respectively used
is ensured. For example, the retaining structure can be in the form of a slot or bore and the
connector can be a compressible/expandable connector, which is insertable into the slot or
bore and locks in the slot or bore when fully inserted in order to reliably retain the connector in
the slot. Alternatively, the retaining structures can be dovetail shaped slots and the connectors
can have complementary connecting ends, or vice versa. In yet another alternative, the
retaining structure is a protrusion 150 on the rear surface 214, 314 of a facing or backer block
200, 300 as schematically illustrated in FIG. 10. The illustrated protrusion 150 is dovetail
shaped for engagement with connector 120 provided with clip shaped connecting ends 122.
[0078]     FIG. 1 schematically illustrates an exemplary corner arrangement of a modular wall
in accordance with the invention, wherein an end of the wall is formed with facing blocks 200.
As is apparent, the facing blocks 200 are stacked to form the corner and special corner
connectors 125 are used. The corner connectors 125 can extend diagonally as shown in FIG.
1 or be L-shaped and extend along the corner as shown in FIGs. 6a to 6i.
[0079]     The facing blocks 200 are preferably provided with a bevel or step at their lateral
ends in order to allow for a closer fit of the facing blocks in curved wall applications (see FIG.
1). The curvature of the wall can then be adjusted by using facing blocks of different length,
longer blocks being used in the outer partial wall of the decorative wall. However, the same
effect can be generated with stepped ends, or blocks with a T-shaped cross-section in
horizontal cross-section. Generally, the shorter the blocks, the tighter the radius that can be
created.
[0080]     FIGs. 14a to 14f show different retaining walls as disclosed including structures to
create a setback for consecutive rows. Figs. 14c to 14f illustrate the use of setback plugs 132

                                                 - 23
which are inserted into the keyhole slots 102 of the consecutive rows of backer blocks 300 to
create a backward setback 135 (see Figs. 14b and 14d) of consecutive rows. This setback 135
is achieved in the embodiment of Figs. 14a and 14b by providing each backer block 300 with a
downwardly extending setback nose 320 at a bottom edge of the front surface 312 of the
block. The setback 135 is achieved in the embodiment of Figs. 14c to 14f with a setback plug
132 having a Z shaped body 133 having a first leg 137 for engagement of the rear surface 314
of a first backer block 300a and an offset second leg 138 for engagement of the rear surface
314 of a second backer block 300b stacked on top of the first backer block 300a and a central
web 139 creating the offset between the legs 137, 138 and, thus, the offset 135 between
successive rows of backer blocks 300. The setback plug 132 further includes an interlocking
member 134 for engagement of the keyhole slot 102 and may also include a stiffening web
136 for support of the second leg 138.
[0081]      To ensure a proper end-to-end placement of the backer blocks 300 and to reliably
form a continuous rear wall portion of backer blocks, the ends of the backer blocks 300 can be
connected by end connectors 140 inserted into keyhole slots 103 provided in the end surfaces
315 of the backer blocks 300, as illustrated in FIGs. 15a to 15c. The term continuous wall
portion as used here refers to a wall portion made with stacked blocks (facing or backer
blocks) which are stacked end-to-end with little or no intermediate spacing so that loss of the
loose filler material in the intermediate space between the front and rear portion walls is
prevented. It is understood that the finer the filler material the tighter the required end-to-end fit
of the blocks.
[0082]      FIGs. 16a and 16b illustrate different principles of vertically interlocking or connecting
successive rows of facing or backer blocks. Connecting studs 160 can be used which have a
generally cylindrical body 162 for insertion into the bore portion 206 of the keyhole slots 102 of
vertically adjacent blocks 200, 300. A central flange 164 on the body 162 is sandwiched
between the vertically adjacent blocks in the installed condition, which prevents sliding of the
connecting stud 160 in the bore portion 206.
[0083]       FIGs. 17a to 17c illustrate the principle of supporting a coping or wall cap 360
having a depth smaller than the wall assembly, using a specialized connector 340.
[0084]      FIGs. 18a to 18b illustrate special facing blocks 200b and 200c for use in a wall in
accordance with this application. The facing block 200b can be of natural or synthetic material,

                                                 - 24
such as wood, steel, stone, etc., but is preferably a slab of natural stone which has a front
surface 212a and a back surface 214a. The facing block 200b has multiple spaced apart
parallel dovetail shaped retaining slots 102a cut into its back surface 214a. Each retaining slot
102a receives a connector 180 with a dovetail shaped protrusion 182 to engage the retaining
slot 102a and a keyhole slot 102 for receiving the connecting portion 122 of a connector 120.
The keyhole slot has a slot portion 202 and a cylindrical bore portion 206 connected thereto.
The facing block 200b is preferably sized and shaped to permit stacking into a continuous wall.
However, the width of the facing blocks 200b is insufficient for the stacked facing blocks to
function as a retaining wall.
[0085]     FIGs. 19a to 19c illustrate a decorative freestanding wall made with hardsplit facing
blocks.
[0086]     FIGs. 20a and 20b illustrate a concrete panel wall system with facing and backer
blocks of different sizes.
[0087]     FIGs. 21a to 21e illustrate different orientations of the interlocking between the
connectors 120 and the blocks 200, 300, wherein the connectors can have interlocking
members 122 at opposite ends of the connector body 124 which are oriented at 900 to one
another. The keyhole slots 102 in the facing blocks 200 and/or the backer blocks 300 can be
extending in horizontal or vertical direction in the installed condition of the blocks.
[0088]     The invention also provides an assembly method for assembling a modular retaining
wall in accordance with the invention the wall a preselected height H and total mass per unit
length. Figs. 22a and 22b respectively show retaining walls of different height and mass, made
of identical facing blocks 200 and backer blocks 300, but using connectors 120 of different
length and different amounts of the same filler material. The mass of the different walls is
determined solely by the length of the connectors and the amount of the filler material. The
method includes the steps of obtaining a plurality of the facing blocks 200, each having a
known mass, obtaining a plurality of the backer blocks 300, each having a known mass,
stacking the facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form a continuous front
wall portion 201 of facing blocks and having the preselected height H and a continuous rear
wall portion 301 of backer blocks having the preselected height H, connecting the front and
rear wall portions 201, 301 during stacking of the facing and backer blocks by connecting the
back surface 214 of each facing block 200 in the front wall portion 201 with the back surface

                                                   - 25
314 of a least one backer block 300 in the rear wall portion 301 with a connector 120 for
connecting the front and rear wall portions in the back-to-back orientation for forming an
interior space for receiving a filler material 500 of known density, and filling the interior space
with the filler material. The filler material is a loose filler material loose filler material, such as
earth, sand gravel, crushed stone, or the like, which can be easily poured into the intermediate
space and have a known density. Most preferred are free-running materials, such as gravel,
crushed stone, or the like to reliably and completely fill the intermediate space.
[0089]      In order to achieve a preselected total mass, the method of the invention includes the
further steps of determining a first mass per unit length of the front wall portion 201,
determining a second mass per unit length of the rear wall portion 301, determining a required
volume of the filler material 500 needed per until length of the wall to provide a mass of filler
material equal to at least a difference between the total mass per unit length and the sum of
the first mass and second mass per unit length, and selecting the length of the connectors so
that the interior space has a volume at least equal to the required volume. With this method,
retaining walls of any desired height and mass can be achieved, always using the identical
facing and backer blocks components which can be installed manually. More importantly, this
method allows the construction of retaining walls of a height and mass previously not possible
with manually installed monolithic retaining wall blocks, whether solid or hollow.
[0090]       In one embodiment of the method, facing blocks are used which are cast concrete
blocks with a back surface and a patterned decorative front surface, preferably dry cast
concrete blocks with an embossed, patterned decorative front surface. In this embodiment, the
backer blocks are also cast concrete blocks, preferably dry cast concrete blocks.
[0091]      In another embodiment, the invention provides a method for forming a corner
assembly in a modular retaining wall in accordance with the invention, as will be discussed in
more detail in the following with reference to Figs. 23a to 23d. The term corner in this context
defines an area of intersection or overlap between a pair of first and second intersecting walls,
which meet at a point. In the illustrated corner assembly which includes the first and second
intersecting walls 100a and 100b, each intersecting wall is built in accordance with the
invention and has facing blocks 200, backer blocks 300 and interconnecting connectors 120 to
define an intermediate space I for filling with loose filler material (not shown for illustration
purposes). For the formation of the corner assembly, the method includes the steps of placing,
at the corner, at least one of the backer blocks of the first intersecting wall within the

                                                  - 26
intermediate space of the second wall. Preferably, the method further includes the step of
placing, at the corner, at least one of the backer blocks of the second wall within the
intermediate space of the first wall.
[0092]      In one embodiment of the corner assembly method, the steps of placing the at least
one backer block of the first wall and placing the at least one backer block of the second wall
are carried out for each horizontal row of backer blocks.
[0093]      In another embodiment of the corner assembly method, in each row of backer
blocks, the row of backer blocks of one of the first and second walls is continuous with the
backer block placed within the intermediate space of the other of the first and second walls at
the corner. This is illustrated in Figs. 23a and 23b, wherein one of the intersecting walls has a
continuous row of backer blocks (circled area) which extends all the way to the back surface of
the facing block row in the other intersecting wall. The row of backer blocks which is
continuous at the corner is preferably alternated between the first and second intersecting
walls for consecutive horizontal rows of backer blocks, as illustrated in Fig. 23c and 23d. In
order to avoid special interference between the intersecting connectors 120 from the first and
second intersecting walls at the corner, the connectors are either offset in height so that the
connecting ends 122 respectively engage consecutive rows of facing and backer blocks, or
special connectors 120b are used which can be broken in half. Such a connector 120b is
shown in Figure 24b, which connector can be split by bending along the connecting tabs 120a.
[0094]      Figs. 24a to 24d illustrate a retaining wall with setback, wherein the setback is
achieved similar to the manner illustrated in Figs. 14a to 14f, except that the setback or offset
between consecutive rows of facing and backer blocks is achieved not with a separate setback
plug, but with a connector 120 including a setback leg 129 integrated into that end of the
connector intended to interlock with the backer block. In the installed condition of the connector
as illustrated in Figs. 24c and 24d, the connector is interlocked with a first backer block 300a
and the setback leg 129 engages the rear surface 314 of a second backer block 300b stacked
on top of the first backer block 300a.
[0095]      While the invention has been described with a certain degree of particularity, it is
understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth herein for purposes of
exemplification, but is to be limited only by the scope of the attached claims, including the full
range of equivalency to which each element thereof is entitled.

                                                 - 27
[0096]     The above-described embodiments of the present invention are intended to be
examples only. Alterations, modifications and variations may be effected to the particular
embodiments by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope of the invention,
which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto.
[0097]     This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
<removed-apn> which is a divisional of Australian patent number 2011307995, both of which
specifications as originally filed are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety

                                                - 28
CLAIMS:
1.         A modular retaining wall of preselected height and mass per unit length for retaining
loose material of equal or lesser height, comprising
           concrete backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained;
           concrete facing blocks exposed on a front face of the retaining wall; and
           connectors connecting each concrete facing block with at least one concrete backer
block in a back to back arrangement, the concrete backer blocks being stacked into a
continuous rear wall portion of the preselected height and a first mass per unit length and
concrete facing blocks being stacked into a continuous front wall portion of the preselected
height and a second mass per unit length, a sum of the first and second mass being less than
the total mass; and the connectors maintaining the front and rear wall portions in a spaced
apart position in which the front and rear wall portions define an intermediate space, the
intermediate space being filled with a loose filler material of a third mass per unit length
constituting at least the remainder of the preselected total mass per unit length, the loose filler
material being separate from the material to be retained and the intermediate space being
separated by the backer blocks from the material to be retained, wherein each connector has a
pair of connecting ends and a connector body extending between the connecting ends, the
connecting ends being shaped for supporting the connector in and interlocking engagement
with a retaining structure in one of the concrete facing blocks and a retaining structure in one
of the concrete backer blocks, respectively, the connector body being rod or web shaped for
minimizing a volume taken up by the connectors in the intermediate space and maximizing a
volume of the filler material in the intermediate space and wherein none of the backer blocks,
facing blocks and connectors are embedded in the material to be retained.
2.         The modular retaining wall of claim 1, wherein the concrete facing blocks have a first
width, the concrete backer blocks have a second width, and the connectors have a length
exceeding the sum of the first and second width.
3.         The modular retaining wall of claim 2, wherein the retaining structures are one of a
retaining protrusion on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks and a
back surface of the backer blocks.
4.         The modular retaining wall of claim 2, wherein the retaining recesses are oriented to
extend vertical or horizontal in an installed condition of the blocks.

                                                - 29
5.         The modular retaining wall of claim 2, wherein the facing blocks have a base width W
and the retaining structures in the facing blocks are spaced at 1W.
6.         The modular retaining wall of claim 5, wherein the retaining structures in the backer
blocks are spaced at 1W or less.
7.         The modular retaining wall of claim 2, wherein the retaining structures are retaining
recesses constructed as keyhole slots and each connector has a central portion with opposite,
terminally positioned and enlarged terminal portions forming the first and second interlocking
members respectively, or the retaining structures are retaining protrusions constructed as
dovetail protrusions and each connector has a central portion with opposite terminal portions
for respectively interlocking with one of the dovetail protrusions.
8.         The modular retaining wall of claim 7, wherein the central portion is a planar central
web and each interlocking member is shaped and constructed for interlocking engagement
with a keyhole slot.
9.         The modular retaining wall of claim 1, wherein the sum of the first and second mass
is less than half of the total mass.
10.        A method of forming a corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls each
retaining wall for retaining a loose material of a predetermined first height, each retaining wall
having a second height at least equal to the first height and a minimum total mass per unit
length required for retaining the loose material of the first height, each retaining wall
assembled in accordance with the method comprising the steps of:
           obtaining a plurality of concrete facing blocks respectively having a back surface and
a front surface, and a known mass;
           obtaining a plurality of concrete backer blocks respectively having a back surface
and a front surface, and a known mass,
           determining a first mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked concrete
facing blocks of the second height;
           determining a second mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked concrete
backer blocks of the second height;
           determining a required volume of a loose filler material of known density needed per
unit length of the wall to provide a third mass of filler material equal to at least a difference
between the total mass per unit length and the sum of the first and second mass per unit

                                                  - 30
length;
           stacking the concrete facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form
a continuous front wall portion of concrete facing blocks and having the second height and a
continuous rear wall portion of concrete backer blocks having the second height;
           during stacking of the concrete facing and backer blocks, connecting the back
surface of each concrete facing block in the front wall portion with the back surface of a least
one concrete backer block in the rear wall portion with a connector for connecting the front and
rear wall portions in the back-to-back orientation and forming an intermediate space for
receiving the filler material, a length of the connectors being selected for the intermediate
space having a volume per unit length at least equal to the required volume, whereby the
backer blocks are stacked against the material to be retained without embedding the backer
blocks in the material to be retained to separate the intermediate space from the material to be
retained; and
           filling the interior space with the loose filler material to form the retaining wall of the
minimum total mass;
           said method of forming the corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls,
including the steps of
           placing at least one of the concrete backer blocks of the first wall at the corner within
the intermediate space of the second wall; and
           placing at least one of the concrete backer blocks of the second wall at the corner
within the intermediate space of the first wall.
11.        The method of claim 10, wherein the steps of placing the at least one concrete
backer block of the first wall and placing the at least one concrete backer block of the second
wall are carried out for each horizontal row of backer blocks.
12.        The method of claim 11, wherein at the corner and in each row of concrete backer
blocks, the row of concrete backer blocks of one of the first and second walls is continuous
with the concrete backer block placed within the intermediate space of the other of the first and
second walls.
13.        A modular wall system for constructing a freestanding retaining wall for retaining a
loose material of a predetermined height, the retaining wall having a rear face for placement
against the loose material to be retained, an exposed front face and a predetermined base
width and total mass per unit length sufficient for maintaining the retaining wall upright against

                                                 - 31
a pressure exerted by the loose material at the preselected height, the system comprising
            backer blocks stackable against the loose material and into a continuous rear wall
portion of the preselected height, for forming the rear face, the rear wall portion having a first
mass;
            facing blocks stackable into a continuous front wall portion of the preselected height
for forming the front face, the front wall portion having a second mass, a sum of the first and
second mass being less than the total mass;
            connectors for connecting each facing block in the front wall portion with at least one
backer block in the rear wall portion to form an intermediate hollow space of fixed volume
between the front and back wall portions, the fixed volume being defined by the preselected
height of the retaining wall and a length of the connectors, the intermediate space being
separated from the loose material by the rear wall portion; and
            an amount of loose filler material of a known density for filling the fixed volume, the
length of the connectors being selected for a width of the retaining wall being at least equal to
the base width and the amount of loose filler material having an overall third mass constituting
at least the remainder of the total mass.
14.         The modular wall system of claim 13, wherein the connectors each have at least two
connecting ends for respective interlocking engagement with a facing block and backer block
and each of the facing and backer blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for
respectively receiving one of the connecting ends.
15.         The modular wall system of claim 14, wherein the facing blocks have a first width,
the backer blocks have a second width, and the connectors have a length exceeding the sum
of the first and second width.
16.         The modular wall system of claim 15, wherein the retaining structures are one of a
retaining protrusion on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks and a
back surface of the backer blocks.
17.         The modular wall system of claim 16, wherein the retaining recesses are oriented to
extend vertical or horizontal in an installed condition of the blocks.
18.         The modular wall system of claim 17, wherein the facing blocks have a base width W
and the retaining structures in the facing blocks are spaced at 1W.

                                                 - 32
19.         The modular wall system of claim 18, wherein the retaining structures in the backer
blocks are spaced at 1W or less.
20.         The modular wall system of claim 18, wherein the retaining structures are retaining
recesses constructed as keyhole slots and each connector has a central portion with opposite,
terminally positioned and enlarged terminal portions forming the first and second interlocking
members respectively, or the retaining structures are retaining protrusions constructed as
dovetail protrusions and each connector has a central portion with opposite terminal portions
for respectively interlocking with one of the dovetail protrusions.
21.         The modular wall system of claim 20, wherein the central portion is a planar central
web and each interlocking member is shaped and constructed for interlocking engagement
with a keyhole slot.
22.         A kit for constructing a freestanding retaining wall for retaining a loose material of a
predetermined height, the retaining wall having a rear face for placement against the loose
material to be retained, an exposed front face and a predetermined base width and total mass
per unit length sufficient for maintaining the retaining wall upright against a pressure exerted by
the loose material at the preselected height, comprising
            x number of backer blocks and y number of facing blocks, the facing blocks being
stackable into a continuous front wall portion and the backer blocks being stackable into a
continuous rear wall portion for placement against the material to be retained;
            connectors for connecting the backer blocks with the facing blocks in a back to back
arrangement for the front and rear wall portions to define an intermediate space for filling with
loose filler material when the facing blocks and backer blocks are connected by the connectors
in the back to back arrangement, the connectors each having at least two connecting ends for
respective interlocking engagement with a facing block and a backer block and each of the
facing and backer blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively
receiving one of the connecting ends;
            instructions for selecting a length of the connectors to adjust a volume of the
intermediate space so that a mass of the filler material in the intermediate space together with
a mass of the front wall portion and a mass of the rear wall portion adding up to at least the
total mass; and
            an amount of loose filler material of a known density, the amount of loose filler
material having an overall third mass constituting at least the remainder of the total mass.

                                               - 33
23.        The kit of claim 22, wherein x and y are the same and the retaining structures are
one of retaining protrusions on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks
and a surface of the backer blocks.
24.        A modular retaining wall system for constructing a retaining wall for retaining a
material, the wall having a preselected total mass, the system comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with the material to be retained and stackable into a
continuous rear wall portion of a first mass;
           facing blocks to be exposed in the installed condition of the wall system and
stackable into a continuous front wall portion of a second mass, a sum of the first and second
mass being less than the total mass; and
           connectors for connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a
spaced apart back to back arrangement, the connectors having a length for forming between
the front and back wall portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a
third mass constituting at least the remainder of the total mass.
25.        A modular retaining wall system for constructing a retaining wall for retaining a
material, the wall having a preselected height and total mass per unit length, the system
comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with the material to be retained;
           facing blocks to be exposed in the installed condition of the wall system; and
           connectors for connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a
spaced apart back to back arrangement, the backer blocks and facing blocks when connected
by the connectors being respectively stackable into a continuous rear wall portion of the
preselected height and a first mass per unit length and a continuous front wall portion of the
preselected height and a second mass per unit length, a sum of the first and second mass
being less than the total mass; and
           the connectors having a length for forming between the continuous front and back
wall portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a third mass per
unit length constituting at least a remainder of the total mass per unit length.
26.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 24 or 25, wherein the sum of the first and
second mass is less than half of the total mass.

                                                - 34
27.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 24 or 25, wherein the connectors each
have at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking engagement with a facing block
and backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks having multiple spaced apart
retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the connecting ends.
28.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 27, wherein the facing blocks have a first
width, the backer blocks have a second width, and the connectors have a length exceeding the
sum of the first and second width.
29.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 28, wherein the retaining structures are
one of a retaining protrusion on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks
and a back surface of the backer blocks.
30.        The modular wall system of claim 28, wherein the retaining recesses are oriented to
extend vertical or horizontal in an installed condition of the blocks.
31.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 28, wherein the facing blocks have a
base width W and the retaining structures in the facing blocks are spaced at 1W.
32.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 31, wherein the retaining structures in the
backer blocks are spaced at 1W or less.
33.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 28, wherein the retaining structures are
retaining recesses constructed as keyhole slots and each connector has a central portion with
opposite, terminally positioned and enlarged terminal portions forming the first and second
interlocking members respectively, or the retaining structures are retaining protrusions
constructed as dovetail protrusions and each connector has a central portion with opposite
terminal portions for respectively interlocking with one of the dovetail protrusions.
34.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 30, wherein the central portion is a planar
central web and each interlocking member is shaped and constructed for interlocking
engagement with a keyhole slot.
35.        A modular retaining wall of preselected height and mass per unit length, comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained;
           facing blocks exposed on a front face of the retaining wall; and

                                                - 35
           connectors connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a back to
back arrangement, the backer blocks and facing blocks being respectively stacked into a
continuous rear wall portion of the preselected height and a first mass per unit length and a
continuous front wall portion of the preselected height and a second mass per unit length, a
sum of the first and second mass being less than the total mass; and the connectors
maintaining the front and rear wall portions in a spaced apart position in which the front and
rear wall portions define an intermediate space, the intermediate space being filled with a filler
material of a third mass per unit length constituting at least the remainder of the preselected
total mass.
36.        The modular retaining wall of claim 35, wherein the sum of the first and second mass
is less than half of the total mass.
37.        The modular retaining wall of claim 35, wherein the connectors each have at least
two connecting ends for respective interlocking engagement with one facing block and one
backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining
structures for respectively receiving one of the connecting ends.
38.        A kit for a modular retaining wall of a preselected total mass, comprising X backer
blocks, Y facing blocks, and connectors for connecting the backer blocks with the facing blocks
in a back to back arrangement, the facing blocks being stackable into a front wall portion and
the backer blocks being stackable into a rear wall portion for the front and rear wall portions to
define an intermediate space for filling with loose filler material when the facing blocks and
backer blocks are connected by the connectors in the back to back arrangement, the
connectors each having at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking engagement
with a facing block and a backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks having
multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the connecting
ends, and instructions for selecting a length of the connectors to adjust a volume of the
intermediate space so that a mass of the filler material in the intermediate space together with
a mass of the front wall portion and a mass of the rear wall portion adding up to at least the
total mass.
39.        The kit of claim 38, wherein X and Y are the same and the retaining structures are
one of retaining protrusions on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks
and a surface of the backer blocks.

                                                    - 36
40.        A method for assembling a retaining wall having a preselected height and total mass
per unit length, comprising the steps of
           obtaining a plurality of facing blocks respectively having a back surface and a front
surface, and a known mass;
           obtaining a plurality of backer blocks respectively having a back surface and a front
surface, and a known mass,
           determining a first mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked facing blocks
of the selected height;
           determining a second mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked backer
blocks of the selected height;
           determining a required volume of a filler material of known density needed per until
length of the wall to provide a mass of filler material equal to at least a difference between the
total mass per unit length and the sum of the first and second mass per unit length;
           stacking the facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form a
continuous front wall portion of facing blocks and having the preselected height and a
continuous rear wall portion of backer blocks having the preselected height;
           during stacking of the facing and backer blocks, connecting the back surface of each
facing block in the front wall portion with the back surface of a least one backer block in the
rear wall portion with a connector for connecting the front and rear wall portions in the back-to
back orientation and forming an interior space for receiving the filler material, a length of the
connectors being selected for the interior space having a volume at least equal to the required
volume; and
           filling the interior space with the filler material to form the retaining wall of the
preselected total mass.
41.        A method of forming a corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls each
assembled in accordance with the method of claim 40, including the steps of
           placing at least one of the backer blocks of the first wall at the corner within the
intermediate space of the second wall and
           placing at least one of the backer blocks of the second wall at the corner within the
intermediate space of the first wall.
42.        The method of claim 41, wherein the steps of placing the at least one backer block of
the first wall and placing the at least one backer block of the second wall are carried out for
each horizontal row of backer blocks.

                                               - 37
43.        The method of claim 42, wherein at the corner and in each row of backer blocks, the
row of backer blocks of one of the first and second walls is continuous with the backer block
placed within the intermediate space of the other of the first and second walls.
44.        A modular retaining wall system for constructing a retaining wall for retaining a
material, the wall having a preselected total mass. the system comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with the material to be retained and stackable into a
continuous rear wall portion of a first mass;
        facing blocks to be exposed in the installed condition of the wall system and stackable
into a continuous front wall portion of a second mass, a sum of the first and second mass
being less than the total mass;
        connectors for connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a spaced
apart back to back arrangement. the connectors having a length for forming between the front
and back wall portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a third
mass constituting at least the remainder of the total mass; and
           the connectors each having at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking
engagement with a facing block and a backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks
having spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the connecting ends.
45.        A modular retaining wall system for constructing a retaining wall for retaining a
material, the wall having a preselected height and total mass per unit length, the system
comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with the material to be retained;
           facing blocks to be exposed in the installed condition of the wall system; and
           connectors for connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a
spaced apart back to back arrangement, the backer blocks and facing blocks when connected
by the connectors being respectively stackable into a continuous rear wall portion of the
preselected height and a first mass per unit length and a continuous front wall portion of the
preselected height and a second mass per unit length, a sum of the first and second mass
being less than the total mass;
           the connectors having a length for forming between the continuous front and back
wall portions an intermediate hollow space for filling with a filler material of a third mass per
unit length constituting at least a remainder of the total mass per unit length; and
           the connectors each have at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking
engagement with a facing block and backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks

                                                - 38
having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the
connecting ends.
46.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 44 or 45. wherein the sum of the first and
second mass is less than half of the total mass.
47.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 46, wherein the facing blocks have a first
width, the backer blocks have a second width, and the connectors have a length exceeding the
sum of the first and second width.
48.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 47, wherein the retaining structures are
one of a retaining protrusion on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks
and a back surface of the backer blocks.
49.        The modular wall system of claim 48, wherein the retaining recesses are oriented to
extend vertical or horizontal in an installed condition of the blocks.
50.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 44 or 45, wherein the facing blocks have
a base width W and the retaining structures in the facing blocks are spaced at 1 W.
51.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 50, wherein the retaining structures in the
backer blocks are spaced at 1W or less.
52.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 44 or 45, wherein the retaining structures
are retaining recesses constructed as keyhole slots and each connector has a central portion
with opposite, terminally positioned and enlarged terminal portions forming the first and second
interlocking members respectively, or the retaining structures are retaining protrusions
constructed as dovetail protrusions and each connector has a central portion with opposite
terminal portions for respectively interlocking with one of the dovetail protrusions.
53.        The modular retaining wall system of claim 52, wherein the central portion is a planar
central web and each interlocking member is shaped and constructed for interlocking
engagement with a keyhole slot.
54.        A modular retaining wall of preselected height and mass per unit length, comprising
           backer blocks for engagement with material to be retained;

                                                  - 39
           facing blocks exposed on a front face of the retaining wall;
           connectors connecting each facing block with at least one backer block in a back to
back arrangement, the backer blocks and facing blocks being respectively stacked into a
continuous rear wall portion of the preselected height and a first mass per unit length and a
continuous front wall portion of the preselected height and a second mass per unit length, a
sum of the first and second mass being Jess than the total mass;
           the connectors maintaining the front and rear wall portions in a spaced apart position
in which the front and rear wall portions define an intermediate space, the intermediate space
being filled with a filler material of a third mass per unit length constituting at least the
remainder of the preselected 1otal mass; and
           the connectors each have at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking
engagement with one facing block and one backer block and each of the facing and backer
blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the
connecting ends.
55.        The modular retaining wall of claim 54, wherein the sum of the first and second mass
is less than half of the total mass.
56.        A kit for a modular retaining wall of a preselected total mass, comprising X backer
blocks, Y facing blocks, and connectors for connecting the backer blocks with the facing blocks
in a back to back arrangement, the facing blocks being stackable into a front wall portion and
the backer blocks being stackable into a rear wall portion for the front and rear wall portions to
define an intermediate space for filling with loose filler material when the facing blocks and
backer blocks are connected by the connectors in the back to back arrangement, the
connectors each having at least two connecting ends for respective Interlocking engagement
with a facing block and a backer block and each of the facing and backer blocks having
multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the connecting
ends. And instructions for selecting a length of the connectors to adjust a volume of the
intermediate space so that a mass of the filler material in the intermediate space together with
a mass of the front wall portion and a mass of the rear wall portion add up to at least the total
mass, the connectors each having at least two connecting ends for respective interlocking
engagement with one facing block and one backer block and each of the facing and backer
blocks having multiple spaced apart retaining structures for respectively receiving one of the
connecting ends.

                                                    - 40
57.        The kit of claim 56, wherein X and Y are the same and the retaining structures are
one of retaining protrusions on and retaining recesses in a back surface of the facing blocks
and a surface of the backer blocks.
58.        A method for assembling a retaining wall having a preselected height and total mass
per unit length, comprising the steps of
           obtaining a plurality of facing blocks respectively having a back surface and a front
surface, and a known mass;
           obtaining a plurality of backer blocks respectively having a back surface and a front
surface, and a Known mass,
           determining a first mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked facing blocks
of the selected height;
           determining a second mass per unit length of a continuous wall of stacked backer
blocks of the selected height;
           determining a required volume of a filler material of known density needed per until
length of the wall to provide a mass of filler material equal to at least a difference
           between the total mass per unit length and the sum of the first and second mass per
unit length;
           stacking the facing and backer blocks in a back-to-back orientation to form a
continuous front wall portion of facing blocks and having the preselected height and a
           continuous rear wall portion of backer blocks having the preselected height; during
stacking of the facing and backer blocks, connecting the back surface of each facing block in
the front wall portion with the back surface of a least one backer block in the rear wall portion
with a connector for connecting the front and rear wall portions in the back-to-back orientation
and forming an interior space for receiving the filler material, a length of the connectors being
selected for the interior space having a volume at least equal to the required volume; and
           filling the interior space with the filler material to form the retaining wall of the
preselected total mass.
59.        A method of forming a corner of first and second intersecting retaining walls each
assembled in accordance with the method of claim 58, including the steps of
           placing at least one of the backer blocks of the first wall at the comer within the
intermediate space of the second wall and
           placing at least one of the backer blocks of the second wall at the comer within the
intermediate space of the first wall.

                                               -41
60.        The method of claim 59, wherein the steps of placing the at least one backer block of
the first wall and placing the at least one backer block of the second wall are carried out for
each horizontal row of backer blocks.
61.        The method of claim 60, wherein at the corner and in each row of backer blocks. the
row of backer blocks of one of the first and second walls is continuous with the backer block
placed within the intermediate

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
