<removed-apn> - The Private Platform Offering for inducing competition when raising capital for a
company on an online platform.
Existing capital raise platforms seek to match individual deals with a single set of investors in order to
raise money for a company. In order to induce competition these sites typically put an arbitrary end
date on the raise. This innovation is specifically designed to create competition and momentum in a
deal without an end date by using segmented investor lists to give benefits to selected groups to
create incentives to participate.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

                                AUSTRALIA Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION INNOVATION PATENT
The Private Platform Offering for inducing competition when raising
                capital for a company on an online platform.
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
                                 performing it known to me:

    The Private Platform Offering for inducing competition when raising
                       capital for a company on an online platform.
Description
Existing capital raise platforms, of which they are many, seek to match individual deals with a single set
of investors in order to raise money for a company. In order to induce competition these sites typically
put an arbitrary end-date on the raise. This innovation is specifically designed to create competition and
momentum in a deal without an end date by using segmented investor lists to give benefits to selected
groups to create incentives to participate.
A capital raise conducted in this manner includes multiple sets of investors with clear distinguishing
features. Using these clearly defined groups or subsets you can then set a priority release date, differing
in time from hours to days, for different groups, encouraging each group to invest before the next group
gets access to the opportunity. This segmentation of groups and entry points needs to be clear to all
parties participating as it encourages people to move between groups to engage earlier and get the best
result.
Whilst any number of groups can exist it is recommended there are at minimum three - a small selected
priority group first, a larger group tied to the deal or the person running it second, and finally a more
public or open group third.
Whilst any amount of time can differentiate the groups it is recommended to use 24-48 hours to allow
investors to invest before the next group advances and there is more competition in the deal.
Best used in a platform or marketplace environment where you have third parties controlling their own
investor bases as well as a more global/public/open group. This allows the independent parties' pools to
be differentiated from the more open pool. Then you can have a select group first, followed by the third
parties private pool, then the more global pool third.
Many different database types and technologies can be utilized for this but a relational database such as
graphql is best to compare and contrast the multiple datasets. Additionally you need a front-end
platform to handle the distribution and notification of the deal and contents as well as a communication
medium - such as email, sms or mobile notifications - to alert individuals when they are able to invest.
Whilst it is possible to process these transactions manually it is recommended that you use a bidding
process such that individual investors can bid for certain amounts. This lets you accept more bids than
you are seeking and provide a different level of allocation to each group, thus encouraging more bidding
and competition as well.
This process can be used for companies conducting capital raises for equity, as well as debt placements.

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

                                AUSTRALIA Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION INNOVATION PATENT
The Private Platform Offering for inducing competition when raising
                capital for a company on an online platform.
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
                                 performing it known to me:

  The Private Platform Offering for inducing competition when raising
                      capital for a company on an online platform.
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A capital raise conducted online including multiple sets of investors with clear distinguishing
        features. Using these clearly defined groups or subsets there can then set a priority release date,
        differing in time from hours to days, for different groups, encouraging each group to invest
        before the next group gets access to the opportunity.
    2. The raise conducted under claim 1, being done between at least 3 sets of investors, being those
        on the platform as more global/public or open investors, those belonging to a third party who is
        running or supporting the capital raise, and a smaller sub-set forming value-add or lead
        investors as the first priority group.
    3.  The capital raise conducted under claim 1 utilising a bidding system to encourage more people
        to bid and oversubscribe a round rather than stop purely when 100% of the capital raise has
        been reached.
    4.  The capital raise conducted under claim 1 being utilized for equity or debt for the company.

