                                           Abstract
A method of recovering uranium from an alkaline pregnant liquor solution including the
following steps: (i) passing the alkaline pregnant liquor solution through an ion exchange
process to remove calcium and/or magnesium ions from the pregnant liquor solution to
provide a treated pregnant liquor solution; (ii) passing the treated pregnant liquor solution
through a nanofiltration process to produce a retentate including concentrated uranium
ions; and, (iii) recovering the uranium from the retentate via precipitation.

        PROCESS FOR URANIUM RECOVERY FROM ALKALINE LIQUORS
                                        Technical Field
[0001]     The present disclosure relates to an improved process for uranium recovery from
alkaline liquors.
                                 Background of the Disclosure
[0002] The principle process steps in the recovery of uranium from ore bodies are:
    -   Crushing and grinding of the ore;
    -   Leaching of the milled ore with either sulfuric acid or alkaline (carbonate) solutions;
    -   Solid-liquid separation of the remaining ore and the pregnant liquor solution (PLS)
        containing the uranium;
    -   Ion exchange (IX) or solvent extraction to concentrate and purify the uranium in the
        PLS; and
    -   Recovery of uranium by precipitation through addition of various chemical reagents.
[0003] The most significant processing choice is whether to use sulfuric acid ('acid leaching')
or sodium carbonate/bicarbonate ('alkaline leaching'). The choice is usually dictated by the
ore mineralogy, with ores that consume an excessive amount of acid commonly more
amenable to alkaline leaching. The present disclosure is concerned primarily with a process
involving leaching of the milled ore using alkaline solutions.
[0004] For alkaline leaching, the PLS contains sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate, the
dissolved uranium, as well as a variety of other elements that are present in the ore or process
water. Alkaline leaching is typically more selective towards uranium than acid leaching, and
so the PLS is often relatively pure with respect to other metals.
                                                  I

[0005] There are currently two processes that are used to recover uranium from the alkaline
PLS. The first is direct precipitation from the PLS, by adding sodium hydroxide to cause the
uranium to precipitate as sodium diuranate. The second option involves ion exchange of
alkaline PLS using a strong base anion exchange resin, followed by elution of the resin to
produce a solution containing an elevated concentration and purity of uranium. Uranium is
then precipitated from this solution.
[0006] In both cases, the uranium-barren PLS, after precipitation or ion exchange, is recycled
back to the leaching step to reuse the reagents. In the case of direct precipitation, the liquor
must be acidified somewhat using CO 2 . The choice between the two process options depends
on the purity of the PLS, but also on the concentration of uranium in solution. For low-grade
uranium ores, the PLS will be quite dilute in uranium and so direct precipitation can be costly,
as a comparatively large volume of PLS must be treated. Ion exchange allows the solution to
be concentrated up prior to precipitation, which substantially improves the financial viability
of the process.
[0007] However where the PLS contains significant amounts of dissolved chloride, for
example where local water sources are highly saline, this can interfere with the ion exchange
process, and means that direct precipitation is the only available option.
[0008] The present invention seeks to provide an improved process for recovery of uranium
from ore bodies.
                                           Summary
[0009] According to one aspect, there is provided a method of recovering uranium from an
alkaline pregnant liquor solution including the following steps:
                                                 2

           (i)   passing the alkaline pregnant liquor solution through an ion exchange process
to remove calcium and/or magnesium ions from the pregnant liquor solution to provide a
treated pregnant liquor solution;
           (ii) passing the treated pregnant liquor solution through a nanofiltration process to
produce a retentate including concentrated uranium ions; and,
           (iii) recovering the uranium from the retentate via precipitation.
[0010] In certain embodiments the ion exchange process of step (i) includes the use of cation
exchange chelating resins with functional groups selected from aminophosphonic and
iminodiacetic acid groups. In an alternative form, the cation exchange chelating resins may be
selected from any other groups that will extract calcium and magnesium in preference to
uranium.
[0011] In certain embodiments the nanofiltration process of step (ii) includes the use of a
membrane with a pore size that allows monovalent ions to pass through the membrane to
produce a permeate and provides that multivalent ions including uranium ions are rejected and
remain in the retentate.
[0012] In certain embodiments the membrane is designed to operate when the treated
pregnant liquor solution is introduced to the nanofiltration process of step (ii) at temperatures
greater than 45 C.
[0013] In certain embodiments a cooling step is provided before step (ii) which reduces the
temperature of the pregnant liquor solution to about 35'C to about 45'C.
[0014]     Other aspects, features, and advantages will become apparent from the following
detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which are a
                                                 3

part of this disclosure and which illustrate, by way of example, principles of the inventions
disclosed.
                                  Description of the Figures
[0015] The present disclosure will become better understood from the following detailed
description of various non-limiting embodiments thereof, described in connection with the
accompanying figures, wherein:
[0016] FIG. I is a process diagram outlining an embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                     Detailed Description
[0017] The present disclosure proposes the use of a nanofiltration step as an alternative to an
ion exchange step for concentrating up the uranium in the PLS. It has been found that the use
of a nanofiltration step provided particular advantages for PLS that contain significant
amounts of dissolved chloride, such as for example in uranium recovery projects based in
Australia, where local water sources are highly saline.
[0018] The presence of chloride in the PLS interferes with the ion exchange process, and
means that direct precipitation had been previously the only viable option for recovering the
uranium. The method disclosed herein is also applicable to recovering uranium from PLS that
do not contain high levels of dissolved chloride and may be used as an alternative to the direct
precipitation method.
[0019] In accordance with certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a method of
recovering uranium from an alkaline PLS which includes the steps of passing the alkaline
PLS through an ion exchange process to remove divalent ions including calcium and/or
magnesium from the PLS to provide a treated pregnant liquor solution, or an ion exchange
                                               4

barren liquor. The treated PLS may then be passed through a nanofiltration process to produce
a retentate including concentrated uranium ions. The retentate may then be passed to a
precipitation step where the uranium may be recovered from the retentate via precipitation.
[0020] In certain embodiments, the nanofiltration membranes suitable for application with the
method described herein have pore sizes between those of reverse-osmosis and ultrafiltration
membranes. These membranes typically allow singly charged species in solution (monovalent
ions) to permeate through the membrane, while more highly charged species (i.e. multivalent
ions) are rejected, and report to the retentate. Therefore, a split of monovalent and multivalent
ions may be achieved using a nanofiltration process. The multivalent ions will concentrate up
in the retentate, as the total volume of retentate is smaller than the feed solution.
[0021] In an alkaline uranium PLS, the uranium and carbonate ions are both multivalent, and
so will report predominantly to the retentate which means that nanofiltration may be used in
place of a conventional ion exchange process to concentrate the uranium. Advantageously,
nanofiltration is tolerant of chloride, unlike ion exchange resins used in a conventional ion
exchange process.
[0022] However, divalent ions such as calcium and magnesium, which are usually saturated
at parts per million levels in the PLS, will also concentrate up in the retentate. The retentate
could therefore end up super saturated in these elements where they may precipitate and
damage the membrane (known as 'fouling' or 'scaling').
[0023] In accordance with the present disclosure it is proposed to include an ion exchange
process prior to the nanofiltration process, where the ion exchange process is provided to
extract calcium and magnesium ions from the PLS. By doing so, the concentrated solution
after NF will not be saturated in calcium or magnesium ions (or other divalent elements), and
hence will not precipitate and foul the membrane during the nanofiltration process.
                                                  5

[0024] After the nanofiltration process, the next step in the method as disclosed herein is
uranium precipitation. Advantageously, the cost of precipitating uranium with sodium
hydroxide from the leach solution is much lower when it follows the nanofiltration process
since the volume (of the retentate) to be treated by the precipitation step is lower and much of
the bicarbonate is rejected to the nanofiltration permeate.
[0025] In certain embodiments, the permeate may be recycled to the uranium leaching step
which decreases the use of CO 2 in the overall process of recovering uranium.
[0026] The method described herein works with highly saline solutions which means that
highly saline brine can be used to leach the uranium ore without the need for the introduction
of chloride removal steps which introduce complexity and cost.
[0027] The proposed ion exchange step to remove the calcium and/or magnesium ions is an
extra step, and the calcium ions will need to be eluted with reagent. However, because the
calcium concentration is very low, the costs associated with the method described herein are
outweighed by the benefits.
[0028] In certain embodiments, the membranes selected for the nanofiltration process may be
rated to operate with liquor temperatures up to about 65'C. In another form the membranes
selected for the nanofiltration process may be selected to operate with liquor temperatures
from about 50 to about 55'C. In an alternative form, a cooling step may be employed prior to
the nanofiltration process to reduce the temperature of the liquor entering the nanofiltration
process to about 35 to about 45'C which provides that a nanofiltration membrane may be
used which operates at about 35 to about 45'C.
[0029] As described herein, the ion exchange process step is not employed in the disclosed
method as a concentration step for uranium but instead is utilized for the removal of calcium
                                                 6

and other divalent cations that are saturated in alkaline PLS. The ion exchange technology
proposed requires the use of a cation exchange chelating resins. These types of resins contain
functional groups such as aminophosphonic and iminodiacetic acid groups, however it is
appreciated that the ion exchange technology is not limited to these types of resins alone.
[0030] The application     of nanofiltration increases   the uranium concentration       in the
nanofiltration retentate, rejecting bicarbonate to the NF permeate. This provides an
opportunity for some recycling of the bicarbonate thus decreasing processing costs associated
with uranium recovery via alkaline leaching.
[0031] Performance of this process is independent of the presence of chloride which is a
major advantage compared to the conventional leach-IX-elution and precipitation process
which does not tolerate chloride.
[0032] The IX technology in combination with nanofiltration in this manner has not been
proposed for uranium processing applications.
[0033] The present disclosure will become better understood from the following example of a
preferred but non-limiting embodiment thereof described in connection with FIG 1.
[0034] An alkaline PLS (Pregnant Liquor Solution) (1) containing 460 mg/L uranium, 7 mg/L
calcium, 37 g/L sodium carbonate, 7.7 g/L sodium bicarbonate, 30 g/L sulphate and 60 g/L
chloride is provided.
[0035] The alkaline PLS (1) is passed through an ion exchange step (15) decreasing the
calcium concentration in the alkaline PLS (1) from 7 to < 1 mg/L to form an ion exchange
barren liquor (4).
                                              7

[0036] The ion exchange barren liquor (4) is then passed to a nano filtration step (16) which
achieves a recovery of 70% of the liquor as permeate (5), with 30% of the liquor reporting to
the retentate (6). The uranium rejection during the nanofiltration step means that greater than
97% of Uranium remains in the retentate (6). Following the nanofiltration step (16) the
retentate contains 1.3 g/L U, 1 mg/L Ca, 85 g/L Na2CO3, 10 g/L NaHCO3 and 66 g/L
sulphate, while the permeate (5) contains < 30 mg/L U, < 1 mg/L Ca, 16 g/L Na2CO3, 7 g/L
NaHCO3, < 5 g/L sulphate.
[0037] The retentate (6) is then passed to a precipitation step (17) where sodium hydroxide is
added to the retentate (6) to cause the uranium to precipitate as sodium diuranate.
[0038] In the foregoing description of certain embodiments, specific terminology has been
resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the
specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific term includes other
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical
purpose.
[0039]     In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open" sense,
that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that is the sense
of "consisting only of'. A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the corresponding
words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
[0040]     In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the invention(s), and
alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without departing
from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments being illustrative
and not restrictive.
                                                 8

[0041]    Furthermore, invention(s) have described in connection with what are presently
considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that the
invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on the contrary, is intended to
cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope
of the invention(s).  Also, the various embodiments described above may be implemented in
conjunction with other embodiments, e.g., aspects of one embodiment may be combined with
aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further, each independent
feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an additional embodiment.
                                                 9

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.      A method of recovering uranium from an alkaline pregnant liquor solution including
the following steps:
         (i)    passing the alkaline pregnant liquor solution through an ion exchange process
to remove calcium and/or magnesium ions from the pregnant liquor solution to provide a
treated pregnant liquor solution;
         (ii)   passing the treated pregnant liquor solution through a nanofiltration process to
produce a retentate including concentrated uranium ions; and,
         (iii)  recovering the uranium from the retentate via precipitation.
2.       A method of recovering uranium from an alkaline pregnant liquor solution according
to claim 1 wherein the ion exchange process of step (i) includes the use of cation exchange
chelating resins with functional groups selected from aminophosphonic and iminodiacetic
acid groups.
3.       A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the nanofiltration process of step
(ii) includes the use of a membrane with a pore size that allows monovalent ions to pass
through the membrane to produce a permeate and provides that multivalent ions including
uranium ions are rejected and remain in the retentate.
4.       A method according to claim 3 wherein the membrane is designed to operate when the
treated pregnant liquor solution is introduced to the nanofiltration process of step (ii) at
temperatures greater than 45'C.
                                                10

5.     A method according to claim 3 wherein a cooling step is provided before step (ii)
which reduces the temperature of the pregnant liquor solution to about 35'C to about 45'C.
                                             11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
