   ABSTRACT
         A syringe assembly is provided comprising a syringe cylinder
   extending from an opening configured to receive a plunger to an end
   configured to couple with a needle and/or medical tubing, a cap
 5 configured to couple to the end, and barrier material at least partially
   encompassing the cap and the end.      A syringe assembly is provided
   comprising a syringe cylinder extending from an opening configured to
   receive a plunger to an end configured to couple with a needle and/or
   medical tubing, a plunger extending from one end to a seal end, and at
10 least one cap configured to couple to the one end. A syringe assembly
   is provided comprising a syringe cylinder extending from an opening
   configured to receive a plunger to an end configured to couple with a
   needle and/or medical tubing, and a plunger extending from one end to
   a seal end, the one end of the plunger defining a recess configured to
15 receive at least one cap.
                                   25

          INTRAVASCULAR LINE AND PORT CLEANING METHODS,
     METHODS OF ADMINISTERING AN AGENT INTRAVASCULARLY,
     METHODS OF OBTAINING/TESTING BLOOD, AND DEVICES FOR
                           PERFORMING SUCH METHODS
 5
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
           This    application   claims   priority to  U.S.   Provisional  Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/605,095 which was filed on February 29,
10 2012, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
           The disclosure pertains to intravascular port access devices,
   intravascular port cleaning devices, methods of cleaning an
   intravascular port, methods of administering an agent into an
15 intravascular line port, methods of obtaining a blood sample from an
   individual, and sets of intravascular line port caps.
   BACKGROUND
           Intravenous lines, such as peripheral IV lines and central IV lines,
   are common intravenous access methods for administering medicants,
20 nutrient solutions, blood products, or other substances into a vein.
   Arterial    lines are used,      for example,    in monitoring    physiological
   parameters by arterial blood sampling during coronary, intensive or
   critical     care.       However,     microorganism     intravascular   device
   colonization or infection can occur as a result from a patients' own
25 endogenous         flora   or    from    microorganisms      introduced   from
   contaminated        equipment      or  other   environmental     contamination
   sources. As a result, localized or systemic infection or septicemia can
   occur and can be life threatening.
           Introduction of microorganisms into an intravenous line can be
30 initiated or facilitated during handling of a catheter, hub, associated
   tubing, equipment, or injection ports, especially during manipulation of
                                           1

   lines in preparation and during initiation of fluid administration into or
   withdrawal from the line.     Microorganisms present on a surface of an
   injection port can be introduced through the port during administration.
   Microorganisms       present   on  contaminated    equipment    utilized   for
 5 administration can be introduced through the port causing colonization
   or infection. Bacterial growth and/or aggregation in a port or catheter
   can serve as the nidus for clotting, embolization and/or occlusion of the
   port or catheter.     Further manipulation or administration through the
   port can facilitate spreading        of microorganisms    within   the   port,
10 and    lines,   and   ultimately  into  the  patient's  vein/artery    and/or
   surrounding tissue. Accordingly, it would be advantageous to develop
   methods and devices for cleaning of external surfaces of intravascular
   access ports and/or internal port areas to reduce risks of colonization
   and infection.
15        Another complication that can occur in association with an
   intravascular line, catheter or access port is clot formation due to blood
   return.    Initial clot formation could extend and/or embolizento the
   superior vena cava and/or the right atrium and/or right ventricle of the
   heart, and subsequently into the pulmonary system circulating to the
20 lungs. It would be advantageous to develop methodology and devices
   to deliver clot dissolving or clot inhibitory agents through intravascular
   ports to minimize or eliminate intravascular port associated clotting.
          Yet another issue that can be associated with intravascular lines
   is lipid accumulation or build-up within the line or port. It would be
25 advantageous to develop methodology and devices to deliver lipolytic
   agents through intravascular ports to minimize or eliminate port
   associated lipid build up.
   SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
           In one aspect the disclosure pertains to an intravascular port
30 access device.        The device includes a first component having a
   chamber and being configured to attach reversibly to an intravenous
                                         2

   line port.   The second component reversibly attaches to the first
   component and contains a disinfecting agent and an applicator material
   selected from    the group    consisting of polyethylene felt sponge,
   polyethylene foam sponge, plastic foam sponge and silicon foam
 5 sponge and other sponge-like or absorbant materials.        The second
   component     is configured to be reversibly received over external
   surfaces of the intravenous line port.
          In one aspect the disclosure encompasses an intravascular line
   port cleaner including a syringe barrel having a first end and a second
10 end. A slideable piston is received into the barrel through the second
   end.   The line port cleaner includes a first cap containing a cleansing
   agent and a second cap containing a microbiocidal agent.
          In one aspect the disclosure encompasses a method of cleansing
   an intravenous line port. The method includes providing a port cleaning
15 device comprising a first component having a chamber with a first
   cleaning agent.     A second component includes a second cleaning
   agent. A third component has a microbiocidal agent and is reversibly
   attached to the first component.      The method includes removing a
   second component from the device, contacting the external surfaces of
20 the port with the second cleaning agent, injecting the first cleaning
   agent from the chamber into the port, removing the third component
   from the device, and capping the port with the third component.
          In one aspect the disclosure encompasses a method of obtaining
   a blood sample from an individual.      The method includes providing a
25  port access device having a first component including a chamber, a
   second component containing a cleaning agent and a third component
   comprising a microbiocidal agent.      The third component is reversibly
   attached to the first component.     The method includes removing the
   second    component from     the device and contacting the       external
30  surfaces of the port with the cleaning agent.       The method further
    includes drawing blood from the individual through the port into the
                                      3

   chamber of the first component removing the third component from the
   device and capping the port with the third component.
          In one aspect the disclosure includes a set of intravascular line
   port caps. The set of caps includes a first port cap containing a first
 5 agent and a first applicator material. The set further includes a second
   port cap containing a second agent and a second applicator material.
          The disclosure also provides syringe assemblies that can
   include: a syringe cylinder extending from an opening configured to
   receive a plunger to an end configured to couple with a needle and/or
10 medical tubing; a cap configured to couple to the end; and barrier
   material at least partially encompassing the cap and the end. Syringe
   assemblies can also include: a syringe cylinder extending from an
   opening configured to receive a plunger to an end configured to
   couple with a needle and/or medical tubing; a plunger extending from
15 one end to a seal end; and at least one cap configured to couple to
   the one end. Additional syringe assemblies can include: a syringe
   cylinder extending from an opening configured to receive a plunger to
   an end configured to couple with a needle and/or medical tubing; and
   a plunger extending from one end to a seal end, the one end of the
20 plunger defining a recess configured to receive at least one cap.
   DRAWINGS
          Embodiments of the disclosure are described below with
    reference to the following accompanying drawings.
          Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a device in
25  accordance with one aspect of the disclosure.
          Fig. 2 is a diagrammatic side view of the device shown in Fig. 1.
          Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic exploded view of the device shown in
    Fig. 1.
                                      4

          Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device
   shown in Fig. 1.
          Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device
   shown in Fig. 1 after repositioning relative to the positioning depicted
 5 in Fig. 4.
          Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a device in
   accordance with another aspect of the disclosure.
          Fig. 7 is a diagrammatic side view of the device shown in Fig. 6.
          Fig. 8 is a diagrammatic exploded view of the device of Fig. 6.
10        Fig. 9 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device
   shown in Fig. 6.
          Fig. 10 is a diagrammatic view of an exemplary packaging
   concept for the device shown in Fig. 6.
          Fig. 11 shows a multi-pack packaging concept for the device
15 shown in Fig. 6.
          Fig. 12 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in
    accordance with another aspect of the disclosure.
          Fig. 13 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device
    shown in Fig. 12.
20         Fig. 14 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in
    accordance with another aspect of the disclosure.
                                      5

         Fig. 15 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in
   accordance with another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 16 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional side view of the
   device shown in Fig. 15.
 5       Fig. 17 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 18 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 19 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
10 another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 20 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 21 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
15       Fig. 22 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 23 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 24 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
20 another aspect of the disclosure.
                                     6

         Fig. 25 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 26 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
 5       Fig. 27 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 28 is a diagrammatic view of a device in accordance with
   another aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 29 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a packaging concept
10 in accordance with one aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 30 is a diagrammatic isometric view of the packaging
   concept shown in Fig. 29.
         Fig. 31 is another diagrammatic isometric view of the packaging
   concept shown in Fig. 29.
15       Fig. 32 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a set of components
   in accordance with one aspect of the disclosure.
         Fig. 33 is an exploded view of the set of components depicted in
   Fig. 32.
         Fig. 34 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a packaging concept
20 in accordance with one aspect of the disclosure.
                                     7

   DESCRIPTION
           In general the disclosure includes devices and methodology for
   cleaning and/or accessing intravascular line ports.               In particular
   applications devices of the disclosure can be used for cleaning external
 5 surfaces of a intravascular line port followed by cleaning of the port
   itself and in particular instances cleaning of intravascular lines.
           In other applications devices of the disclosure can be utilized for
   administering an agent intravascularly. During these applications, the
   devices in accordance with the disclosure can typically be utilized to
10 cleanse external surfaces of the port prior to utilizing the device for
   administering of an agent intravascularly.             In another application
   devices of the disclosure can be utilized during the process of obtaining
   a blood sample from an individual.          A device in accordance with the
   disclosure is typically utilized to cleanse external surfaces of a port
15 prior to utilizing the device to withdraw a sample of blood from the port.
   The disclosure also includes methodology for such port cleansing agent
   administration and blood sampling techniques.
           In one embodiment, the device comprises two components.              An
   example two component device is described with reference to Figs. 1
20 5.
           Referring initially to Fig. 1, a port access device 10 comprises a
   first component 12 at a first end 14 of the device, and a second
   component 16 at a second end 18 of the device. Second component
    16 can have a tab 20 or other extension feature for assisting removal
25 of the second component from the first component.             First component
    12 has a chamber housing 22 which can be a collapsible housing. First
   component 12 can also comprise an extension portion 24. Referring to
    Fig. 2, as depicted device 10 can have second portion 16 insertable
   within connector portion 24.        It is to be understood however that the
30 disclosure contemplates other configurations wherein second portion
    16 fits over or caps extension portion 24.       It is also to be understood
                                           8

   that the shape and dimension of collapsible housing 22 is but an
   example      with    alternative   shapes,   sizes    and     configurations
   contemplated.
           Referring to Fig. 3 such shows an exploded view of the device
 5 depicted in Figs. 1 and 2. As illustrated chamber housing 22 of device
    10 can house a chamber 23. Connector 24 can comprise a separator
   25 having an opening 29 passing therethrough.            Connector 24 can
   further comprise a receiving port 30 for receiving a dispenser 26.
    Dispenser 26 in turn can comprise a valve portion 28.               Second
10 component 16 can comprise a container 21.
           Referring next to Fig. 4, such shows dispenser 26 with valve 28
   seated within receiving port 30. As depicted such valve mechanism is
    in the "closed" position where contents of chamber 23 are blocked from
    passing into or through connector 24.          Referring next to Fig. 5,
15  application of force upon collapsible housing 22 such as a downward
    pressure upon a top surface of the housing can be utilized to displace
   valve    device   28   from   receiving port  30   as   illustrated.    Such
    displacement can allow passage of the contents of chamber 23 into or
    through connector portion 24.
20         As depicted in Fig. 4, second component 16 can contain an
    applicator material 32. Such applicator material can be for example, a
    sponge or sponge-type material. Exemplary sponge-type materials can
    include but are not limited to polyethylene felt sponge, polyethylene
    foam sponge, plastic foam sponge and silicon foam sponge and other
25  sponge-like materials such as a felt or other absorbant materials.
           Where device 10 is to be utilized for port cleansing applications,
    container 21 of second component 16 will typically contain a cleansing
    agent. The cleansing agent can be a disinfecting agent for cleansing
    external port surfaces. The agent is not limited to a particular cleaning
30  or disinfecting agent and can comprise for example alcohol, preferably
    contained in an alcohol solution comprising from about 5% to about
                                         9

   99% alcohol.       In particular applications the alcohol solution will
   comprise 25% to 90% alcohol. The sponge-type applicator material can
   be utilized to assist in containing the cleansing agent and can further
   assist in applying the agent to external surfaces of the intravascular
 5 port.   Second component 16 is removably attached to the device 10.
   For cleansing of the port, removable component 16 is removed from
   first component 12 and is utilized to contact external port surfaces for
   cleansing of external portions of an intravascular line port.
          After   cleansing of   external   portions of the    port, the    first
10 component of the device, which in cleansing/disinfecting applications
   can be utilized for internal cleansing of the intravascular port, can be
    reversibly attached to the port to be cleansed.    The chamber volume
   can be for example up to 3.5 ml; a preferred volume range can be from
    about 1 to about 3 ml. although alternative chamber sizes for smaller
15  or  larger   volumes   are  contemplated.      The  chamber     can   have
    appropriate calibration marks relative to the total volume of the
    chamber.     For example, a 3.5 ml. fluid volume chamber can have
    volume markings every 1 ml, every 0.5 mi, every 0.1 ml, etc.               In
    particular embodiments, the connector portion can have a LEUR-LOK*
20  (Becton, Dickinson and Company Corp., Franklin Lakes NJ) fitting (not
    shown) for connection to a LEUR-LOK* type port. A cleansing agent
    can be provided within chamber 23 and can be an antibiotic or an
    alternative appropriate disinfectant.     An exemplary agent can be an
    alcohol or alcohol solution such as described above relative to the
25  second component container 21.      In cleansing applications chamber 22
    can alternatively or additionally contain chemical agents including
    ethylene    diamine tretaacetic   acid   (EDTA)  and/or sodium      citrate,
    hydrogen peroxide, and other antiseptic or antimicrobial components
           Once connected to the line port external pressure can be applied
30  to collapsible housing 22 by for example squeezing, pinching, or
    pushing inward on the housing to displace dispenser 26 thereby
    opening or displacing valve 28 from receiving port 30.           Continued
                                       10

   squeezing or external force can be utilized to dispel or eject contents
   of chamber 23 through connector 24 and into the connected port.
   Depending upon the volume of chamber 23 the injected cleansing
   solution may extend into the intravascular line itself. After dispelling
 5 the contents of chamber 23 device component 12 can be removed from
   the port to allow administration of fluids to be delivered intravascularly
   (for example). If such delivery is not to be performed immediately upon
   cleansing, component 12 of the cleansing device can be retained on
   the port until such time as intravascular delivery is desired.
10         In another aspect, the above-described device and methodology
   can be utilized for administering an anti-clot agent to minimize or
   prevent intravascular associated clot formation or to dissolve an
   existing    clot.   In this aspect, rather than or in addition to the
   antimicrobial     agent,    chamber      23    can   contain  an   appropriate
15 anticoagulant agent or clot dissolving agent.              Exemplary anti-clot
   agents     which   can    be    utilized   include  but   are  not  limited  to
   anticoagulants such as EDTA, sodium citrate, heparin and heparin
    derivatives, and anti-thrombolytic agents such as tissue plasminogen
    activator.     Where lipid    accumulation      is an  issue an appropriate
20  dispersion or lipolytic agent can be administered, either independently
    or in combination with antimicrobial agent and/or anti-clot agent.
    Injection of any such agents can be achieved in a manner analogous to
    that    described    above    relative   to   the  cleansing   agent.    These
    applications may also be accomplished utilizing the embodiments
25  illustrated and described below.
           An alternative embodiment of a device in accordance with the
    disclosure is illustrated and described with reference to Figs. 6-11.
    Referring to Fig. 6, such illustrates an alternative example port access
    device 40 having a syringe-like first component 42 and a second
30  component 44.        Referring to Fig. 7 syringe-like first component 42
    includes a plunger 46.      An exploded view of the port access device is
    depicted in Fig. 8.     First component 42 includes a syringe barrel-like
                                           11

   housing 48 having a first end 50 and a second end 52 with an internal
   chamber 54. Chamber 54 can preferably have a fluid volume of from 1
   to about 3.5 ml. Housing 48 can have appropriate calibration marks as
   discussed above with respect to the earlier embodiment.
 5        Plunger 46 can include a stem portion 56 having a seal 57.
   Plunger 46 can be insertable into second end 52 of housing 48.          A
   second seal 59 can be associated with the larger diameter body of the
   plunger. Seal 59 is preferably present to form a seal between the
   plunger and an internal surface of the device chamber.      Seal 59 can
10 preferably be an elastomeric seal which is over molded onto the piston
   (which can preferably be a molded hard plastic material). However, the
   disclosure contemplates alternative seal material and use of non
   overmolded techniques.
          Seal 57 can be a single seal or a set of seals and can be for
15 example a set of two o-rings, a single broad overmolded elastomeric o
    ring or sleeve or a hard plastic seal molded integrally with the piston
   stem.   The presence of seal 57 can advantageously inhibit or prevent
    unwanted or unintentional backflow of fluid into the device chamber
   thereby decreasing the risk of contamination of the device and/or its
20  contents. Alternatively relative to the depicted configuration a single
    seal can be over molded to have base portion which forms the seal
    between an internal wall of the device chamber and the large diameter
    portion of the piston and a sleeve portion which covers the walls of the
    smaller diameter portion of the piston (not shown).
25        The second component 44 is a removable cap portion having a
    housing 60 and an internal container 62. Container 62 can contain an
    applicator material 64.   The applicator material can be, for example,
    any of those materials discussed above with respect to the earlier
    embodiment. Additionally the applicator material can be shaped in such
30  a way as to facilitate the surface contact between the applicator
    material and the various      concave and/or convex shapes of the
    implement to be cleaned. The second component 44 can additionally
                                      12

   contain a cleansing agent such as those cleansing agents discussed
   above. Second component 44 preferably can be configured to fit over
   or onto an intravascular port such that the cleansing agent can be
   applied to external surfaces of the port. Such cleaning preferably can
 5 be conducted prior to administering the contents of chamber 54 (for
   example, an anti-clot, antimicrobial or other cleansing agent) into the
   port.    However,   the   disclosure   contemplates   post-administration
   cleansing of the port utilizing the removable cap portion.
          Referring next to Fig. 9, such shows a cross-sectional view of the
10 embodied device 40 in an intact configuration.     For utilization second
   component 44 can be removed and utilized to cleanse external surface
   of the port. Subsequently, first end 50 of the second component can
   be attached to the port and contents of the chamber 54 can be
   administered into the port by application of force to plunger 46.
15 Alternatively, chamber 54 can be provided empty or can be provided to
   contain, for example, an anticoagulant agent and device 40 can be
   provided with plunger 46 in a forward position. Thus device 40 can be
   utilized for applications such as obtaining and/or testing of a blood
   sample from an individual by attaching first end 50 of the device to the
20 port and repositioning of plunger 46 to draw fluid through the port into
   chamber 54.
          Referring to Fig. 10 packaging 70 for delivery, storage and/or
   disposal of the component for access device 40 is illustrated.        Such
   packaging includes a lid 72 and a tray portion 74. Tray portion 74 has
25 a cavity 76 with molded retainers 78 for positioning/retaining of the
   device and assisting in maintaining the integrity of the device and
   proper positioning of the plunger relative to the device chamber. Such
   packaging can be sealed and can be utilized to provide a sterile
   environment for device 40. As shown in Fig. 11 a series 71 of individual
30 packaging unit 70 can be provided with individually sealed units to allow
   individual removal of units while maintaining sterility of additional units
   in the series.
                                       13

          Another alternative embodiment is described with reference to
   Figs. 12-13.     In this embodiment first component 42a is the same as
   the immediately preceding embodiment.        However, referring to Fig. 12
   second component 44a comprises a "dual cap" system.            Cap housing
 5 60a includes container portion 62 and a second cap extension 65 which
   houses a second container 66. Container 62 can contain an applicator
   material     64 such    as the sponge-like materials     described   above.
   Similarly container 66 can also contain a sponge or other applicator
   material 67.     Container 62 can further contain a cleansing agent such
10 as those described above.
           Container 66 can preferably contain one or more microbiocidal
   agents that differ in composition from the cleaning solution contained
   in the cleansing cap 62.       An example agent composition within cap
   portion 65 can include from about 3% to about 11% H202. Additional
15 components of the agent can include for example ethanol (from about
   25% to about 60%) sodium citrate (from about 1 % to about 4%), EDTA,
    peracetic acid (less than or equal to about 1%), and/or carbamide
    peroxide (less than or equal to about 11%).      Preferably, the pH will be
    between about 5 and 10 and can be adjusted with NaOH or other
20  appropriate base/acid to about pH 7.4 as needed based upon the
    physiological pH and biocidal activity.      The presence of EDTA can
    provide sporocidal activity against for example bacillus spores by
    complexing Mn and can additionally help stabilize H202. Complexation
    or chelation of a variety of other metal ions with corresponding
25  advantageous effects also is contemplated. In combination with H202
    in the solution a synergistic and/or additive effect can be achieved. The
    disclosure does contemplate        use of alternative chelators and pH
    stabilizers relative to those indicated.
           It is to be noted that in some instances a similar solution having
30  lower peroxide content may be included within the first container 62 and
    in particular instances may be present within the chamber of the first
    component.
                                        14

          Referring to Fig. 13 such shows an intact device prior to use. In
   port cleansing applications second component 44a is removed from the
   device and portion 60a is utilized to cover a port thereby contacting the
   port with the contents of container 62. Applicator material 64 can assist
 5 in applying the cleaning agent to external port surfaces.      When the
   contents of chamber 54 are to be administered, component 44a is
   removed from the port and first component is attached to the port.
   Plunger 46 is depressed thereby injecting the contents of chamber 54
   into the port. The syringe component is then removed from the port. A
10 removable seal 68 can then be removed from second cap portion 65.
   Cap portion 65 can be placed over the port such that the contents of
   container 66 contact the port.      Second component 44 can then be
   removed from the port or can be retained on the port until further port
   access or manipulation is desired. Additionally, a breakable joint (not
15 shown) or an adhesive bond between the two sections of 44a can be
   formed so as to keep the two solutions separate but provide a ready
   means to disengage them from each other and utilize them for
   individual cleaning steps.
          Referring to Fig.   14 such shows an alternative embodiment
20 wherein port access device 40b comprises a first component 42b, a
   second component 44b and a third component 45b where second
   component 44b and third component 45b are independently removable
   caps. As illustrated the caps are disposed initially at opposing ends of
   the device and are of differing size. However, alternative relative size
25 and positioning of the caps on the device is contemplated.             For
   example, first component 44b and second 45b can be disposed on top
   side or bottom-side of wing extensions 51, 53 of chamber housing 48b.
          For the example configuration illustrated, the larger cap (first
    component 44b) can be removed from the device and can be utilized
30 for external port cleaning in a manner analogous to that described
    above. The second smaller cap (third component 45b) can be removed
    from the device after administration of the chamber contents and can
                                      15

   be subsequently utilized as a port cap to protect the port until
   subsequent       port access is desired      as described    above.     Third
   component 45b optionally can contain an applicator material 82 and/or
   cleansing agent or microbiocidal agent as described above.
 5        Alternative two-cap configurations include a device having a
   larger cap external to a smaller internal cap, the first cap being
   removable from the second cap where one of the first and second caps
   is configured for utilization as a port cap.
           In the device shown in Fig. 14, cap housing 60b of second
10 component 44b and cap housing 80 of third component 45b can be of
   differing colors.     As such, the caps can be color coded (or otherwise
   coded) to notify the user or other personnel of the status of the port or
   intravascular line.      For example, a first color such as green can be
   utilized on all or a portion of cap housing 80 which will be retained on
15 the port after use of the device to signify a properly sterilized port. It
   should also be noted that absorbent material 64, Fig 14, and Fig 15,
   82c is illustrated with a central through-hole for more complete fitting
   and    therefore     more    complete   cleaning.    Other  such    cleaning
   enhancement shapes are contemplated. Cap housing 60b can be a
20 second color (e.g., yellow or red) signifying the cleansing or other
    procedure being performed has not yet been completed. Accordingly,
   the caps can be utilized as an added safety measure to help ensure
    proper use and assist in maintaining sterility and appropriate record
    keeping.     For example, the caps can allow visual monitoring and can
25  be tracked by hospital pharmacy and/or central auditing software.
            In addition to visual auditing of compliance to proper cleaning and
    maintenance       of sterility, a barcode, radio frequency identification
    (RFID) and/or other pharmacy dispensary or inventory control system
    associated with the device can be utilized to provide an independent
30  audit/compliance system.
                                          16

           Referring next to Fig. 15 such depicts an additional alternate
   embodiment which can utilize a conventional type syringe and plunger
   design and can        utilize caps in   accordance with the disclosure.
   Accordingly, first component 42c comprises a syringe housing 48c and
 5 can have a LEUR-LOKO fitting at first end 50. Plunger 46c can have a
   conventional type piston seal 57c configured to insert into second end
   52 of housing 48c and form a seal with the walls of chamber 54c.
   Second component 44c can comprise a housing 60c which can for
   example have an internal receiving port which fits either internally
10 relative to the LEUR-LOK* fitting or which fits over and covers the
   LEUR-LOKO fitting at first end 50 of first component housing 48c. Third
   component 45c can also have housing 80c configured such that it
   comprises an internal receiving port which fits either internally relative
   to a LEUR-LOK* fitting or which fits over and covers the LEUR-LOK*
15 fitting (or which can have an alternative type fitting) based upon the
   type of port being cleansed.
           A cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 15 is illustrated
   in Fig. 16. Such shows the exemplary type of cap housings for covering
    LEUR-LOK*-type fittings.        For example third component 45c has
20  housing 80c comprising a portion of such housing which fits internally
   within a LEUR-LOK* type fitting thereby capping such fitting.              In
   contrast second component 44c has housing 60c which is threaded to
   thread onto LEUR-LOK* type fitting.        It is to be understood that the
    depiction is for illustrative purposes only and that either or both caps
25  can have the threaded configuration or the snap in configuration. Cap
    housing 60c and 80c can further be color coded as described above.
           The disclosure also contemplates dual cap system disposed at
    the distal (non-administration) end of the port cleaner device (not
    shown).    In this dual cap system a first "green" cap can be reversibly
30 joined to both the device and also back to front in a stack relationship
    relative to a second "yellow" cap.      Each of the two caps can be, for
    example, a LEUR-LOK* type fitting cap, friction fit cap, etc. The green
                                        17

   cap can contain the microbiocide composition described above.         The
   yellow    cap   can   contain  for example    the  cleaning  compositions
   discussed earlier or the microbiocide composition as contained in the
   green cap since in this configuration the yellow cap is not in contact
 5 with the administration end of the device.
           Possible materials for caps include, but are not limited to,
   polyethylene, polypropylene, and/or copolymer materials. Further, the
   caps can preferably comprise a material or agent that is UV protective
   to preserve the integrity of hydrogen peroxide during storage, shipping,
10 etc.    Packaging may also contain UV protective materials to inhibit
   peroxide breakdown.
           As mentioned above, devices of the disclosure can be utilized for
   withdrawing blood from an individual through an intravascular catheter
   or intravascular port.     In particular applications, the device can be
15 utilized directly for blood testing purposes.     The device chamber can
   preferably have a chamber size in the range of 1 to 3 ml, with
   appropriate calibration marks as discussed above. Where whole blood
   is desired, depending upon the particular purpose for drawing, blood
   can be drawn into either a device having an empty chamber or into a
20 device containing an anticoagulant such as EDTA, sodium citrate or
   alternative    coagulant   (such   as   discussed   above).   The   device
   containing blood and anticoagulant can then be utilized directly in blood
   testing equipment or blood can be transferred to an alternative device
   for testing.
25         In applications where serum is desired, whole blood can be drawn
    into the device chamber and, after coagulation, the device containing
   the blood sample can be spun to separate the serum from the red blood
    cells.    If anticoagulant is present in the device chamber, further
    separation can occur to isolate plasma. Alternatively, a filter such as a
30  MILLIPORE* (Millipore Corp., Bedford MA) filter can be fitted onto the
    device after a sample is drawn into the device chamber.             Such
   technique can filter out red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets
                                        18

   allowing serum to flow from the chamber while retaining the blood cells
   within the filter. Anticoagulants can optionally be provided within the
   chamber to allow transfer of blood cells or plasma if such is desired
   based upon the testing or other procedure to be performed                (i.e.,
 5 complete blood count, CBC, platelet count, reticulocyte count, T and B
   lymphocyte assays and chemistries).
           An appropriate filter can also be utilized to filter out particulates
   during drawing of a blood sample from an individual into the chamber.
           Referring to Figs. 17-19 an alternative embodiment is shown that
10 may be utilized during or for administration purposes.         In accordance
   with example implementations, this assembly may be utilized to provide
   solutions via an access port such as a LEUR-LOK*          port.
           Accordingly, syringe cylinder 174 and can have a LEUR-LOK*
   fitting at first end 172.    Plunger 176 can extend from a conventional
15 type piston seal 177 configured to insert into the second end of cylinder
   .174 and form a seal with the walls thereof, to another end 170.
   Accordingly, cylinder 174 can extend from an opening configured to
    receive plunger 176 to first end 172, with end 172 configured to couple
   with a needle and/or medical tubing. Cap 180 can comprise a housing
20 which can for example have an internal receiving port which fits either
    internally relative to the LEUR-LOK® fitting or which fits over and covers
   the LEUR-LOKO fitting at first end 172. Cap 160 can be configured such
   that it comprises an internal receiving port which fits either internally
    relative to a LEUR-LOKOfitting or which fits over and covers the LEUR
25  LOK® fitting (or which can have an alternative type fitting) based upon
    the type of port being cleansed. In some embodiments, appendage 171
    can be part of or extend from end 170 and be configured as a male
    LEUR-LOK* fitting and cap 160 is configured to couple therewith.
    Accordingly, the caps of the disclosure can be configured to couple to
30  the assembly, such as, for example, end 172 and/or appendage 171.
    Caps 180 and 160 can be colored as described above with the green
    cap being 160 and the yellow cap being 180.
                                        19

          Referring to Figs. 18 and 19, the assembly of Fig. 17 is shown in
   alternative configurations.   For example, the assembly of Fig. 17 can
   include barrier material 178 extending from a portion of cylinder to end
   172. This barrier material may seal the contents of cylinder 174 when
 5 not in use for example.     Referring to Figs. 18 and 19 barrier material
   178 may extend to encompass at least a portion of cap 180. This barrier
   material can include but is not limited to translucent fracturable material
   such as thin polymeric sheet material, for example.
          With reference to Figs. 20-28 the disclosure also contemplates
10 dual cap system disposed at the distal end of an administration device.
   In this dual cap system a first "green" cap 160 can be reversibly joined
   to both the device and also back to front in a stack relationship relative
   to a second "yellow" cap 180. Each of the two caps can be, for example,
   a LEUR-LOK* type fitting cap, friction fit cap, etc. The green cap can
15 contain the microbiocide composition described above. The yellow cap
   can contain for example the cleaning compositions discussed earlier or
   the microbiocide composition as contained in the green cap since in
   this configuration the yellow cap is not in contact with the administration
   end of the device.
20         In an alternative embodiment as shown in Figs. 20 and 21, for
   example, caps 180 and 160 can be removably coupled back-to-back
   with the cap 180 releasably sealed and the cap 160 coupled to plunger
    176. Referring to Fig. 21, sealing both caps in a barrier material 184 is
    also contemplated.     With reference to both these Figs, an additional
25  cap 182 may be provided that may or may not include an applicator
    and/or solution.
           Referring to Figs.   22 and 23,      in  accordance with another
    embodiment, caps 160 and 180 may be aligned front-to-front for
    example with both caps either sharing a releasable seal or having
30  individual releasable seals, for example. Piston 176 can be configured
    with a housing 190 that is configured to contain one, both or a portion
    of either of caps 160 and/or 180. Further, a barrier material 192 may
                                       20

   be provided to enclose any portion of either of both of caps 160 and
   180. In the shown embodiment, cap 160 resides almost entirely within
   housing 190 while cap 180 resides within barrier material 180.      In the
   instant embodiment barrier material 192 may be configured as a rigid
 5 cover that is releasably attached to piston 176, for example.          Yet
   another view of this embodiment is shown in Fig. 24 depicting the
   device including the blue cap 182 as well as barrier material 178
   encompassing both end 172 and blue cap 182, for example.
           In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a
10 syringe is shown having a plunger with housing 250. Housing 250 can
   be configured to receive and/or house at least two caps, such as caps
    180 and 160 shown.        In accordance with example implementations,
   these caps can be yellow and green caps respectively. These caps can
   be configured within housing 250 in a front-to-back configuration as
15 shown with the releasable seals being independent of other caps. One
   or more of these caps can be placed in housing 250 in the proximal end
   of the plunger shaft, then the housing sealed to form a cavity at the
    base of the plunger or over a side access entry to the cap chamber.
   The housing may be sealed with a cover that may be attached to the
20  plunger via a hinge, for example.      The cover may also be releasably
    attached as a polymeric foil seal or snap-fit, for example.
            Referring to Figs. 25-28, an additional cap such as a yellow cap
    180a may be provided with the device.        In accordance with different
    implementations, barrier material 178 may be provided to encompass
25  all of end 172 and cap 180a, or at least a portion of cap 180a. Referring
    to Fig. 28, the device can be configured with a blue cap 182, for
    example.         Cap    182    which    can   include   a   sponge    and
    cleaning/disinfection fluid, could be placed on the tip of the syringe.
    Barrier material such as polymeric barrier could cover both the cap and
30  the distal syringe portion or whole syringe to prevent particulate and
    microbial contamination and to maintain a sterile environment after
    terminal sterilization.   In accordance with other implementations, end
                                        21

   172    may     be   configured   to   have     barrier     material  such    as   a
   polymeric/metallic foil seal over end 172 to prevent mixing with the fluid
   in the cap, which could be used to protect male luer or slip fit connectors
   from IV lines or syringes.
 5        It is to be understood that any of the devices above can be utilized
   for cleansing      purposes, for administration         purposes or for blood
   drawing/testing      purposes.      Methodology       will  be   analogous    with
   variation based upon the particular device utilized as described above.
          Example      device   packaging      is   illustrated   in   Figs.   29-31.
10 Packaging 100 can include a lid portion 102 and a packaging tray 104
   as shown in Fig. 29.       Referring to Fig. 30 and 31 packaging tray 104
   can be a molded tray which has integrally molded retaining features
   which conform to the shape of a device 40c in accordance with the
   disclosure. Preferably the molded features conform to the shape of the
15 device     in the   non-deployed     position for shipment,         storage,    etc.
   Accordingly tray 104 can have one or more integrally molded retainer
   features 106, 107, 108 and 109.            Tray 104 can also comprise an
    integrally molded receiving stand 110 which can be configured to
    receive device 40c in an upright position as depicted in Fig. 30. Such
20  receiving stand can allow device 40c to be inserted and retained during
    administrative procedures or after use. Tray 104 may also be used for
    device disposal purposes.
           Device caps in accordance with the disclosure can be utilized
    independent of the devices for cleansing and protection of alternative
25  access catheters and ports such as intravascular, peritoneal dialysis,
    urinary ports and catheters, etc.            Accordingly, the caps can be
    packaged independently in pairs (one each of two differing sizes,
    colors, etc., in groups or in bulk, of one or more colors).           Figs. 32-33
    show an example two cap packaging system 115 having a first cap 117
30  which can be for example a yellow cap and which can preferably be a
     LEUR-LOK®type cap and a second cap 118 which can be, for example,
    a green cap and which can also be a LEUR-LOK*.                Packaging system
                                         22

   115 can comprise a packaging tray 120 and as illustrated in Fig. 33 can
   include integrally molded appropriate receiving ports/receiving rings
   122, 124. Where additional or fewer caps are to be packaged together
   tray    120 can have an appropriate number of receiving ports for
 5 receiving and reversibly retaining the caps.      Where the caps differ in
   size (diametric), the ports can also be of differing size as appropriate.
   It is to be understood that the caps may be provided in groups such as
   one green and four yellow caps per package or any other appropriate
   number depending upon the particular procedure for which they will be
10 utilized with the number and size of package ports corresponding to the
   number and size of various caps.
            Referring next to Fig. 34 an alternative packaging system 130 is
   illustrated.   Packaging system 130 comprises a lid 132 and a tray 130
   having integral receiving ports 136 and 138 for receiving caps 117 and
15  118.    As discussed above alternative numbers and sizes of receiving
    ports can be provided based upon the number and sizes of caps to be
    utilized.
           Where caps are provided in bulk, such may be individually
    packaged and may be provided individually in sheets or on strips. Caps
20  can alternatively be provided with catheter or line/import devices. Such
    can be included in common packaging either loose or attached to a port
    catheter or line to be used for port cleaning and/or protection after
    package opening and/or while the device is in use. In some instances
    the cap(s) can be packaged in one or more sub-packages included
25 within a larger package enclosing the catheter device.
                                        23

 CLAIMS
       The invention claimed is:
 1.     A syringe assembly comprising:
        a syringe cylinder extending from an opening configured to
receive a plunger to an end configured to couple with a needle and/or
medical tubing;
        a cap configured to couple to the end; and
        barrier material at least partially encompassing the cap and the
end.
2.      The syringe assembly of claim         1 wherein the cap further
comprises one or both of an applicator material and/or a cleansing
solution.
3.      The syringe assembly of claim 1 wherein the cap and end are
configured to couple via a LEUR-LOK fitting.
4.      The syringe assembly of claim 1 wherein the end defines an
internal fitting and the cap is configured to couple with the end outside
the internal fitting.
                                   24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
