                                                Abstract
The present invention is a support structure for a line of temporary fencing including:
-    at least one fencing panel; and
-    at least one picket; and
-    at least one block,
wherein the at least one fencing panel includes an end post at opposite ends of the panel. The at
least one picket is able to be forcibly driven into the ground to a sufficient depth so that a
sufficient portion of the at least one picket rises vertically from the ground's surface. The at least
one block includes a first aperture through which the portion of the at least one picket, that rises
from the ground, is able to pass through, and the block is adapted to sit upon the surface of the
ground, with the picket extending upwardly from the block. The end post includes a short
extension portion, that extends at least below the bottom of the fencing panel, and the short
extension is adapted to be insertable into a second aperture that is adjacent the first aperture, so
that when inserted, the end post rises vertically adjacent to the picket, and thereby the end post is
substantially supported in its position upon the block, and held vertically, and the picket is so
shaped so that if a load is applied to the fence, thereby causing the fence post to want to lean
over, the fence post is prevented from leaning by abutting against the picket.

COi
1-51

                                                     1
                                            A Fence Support
Field of the Invention
[0001]    The present invention relates to temporary fencing, and in particular to a support
structure for a temporary fence assembly.
Background of the invention
[0002]    Temporary fencing is used in many areas, particularly in building construction. Typical
temporary fencing includes a back brace. The back brace extends back a distance behind the
fencing line and supports the fencing assembly. The back brace supports the fence when it is
subjected to loads, such as those caused by impact or wind etc. Unfortunately, there are many
situations where there is insufficient room to accommodate the space required for a back brace.
In these circumstances, a brace is jury-rigged. This is inconvenient, time consuming and may not
provide adequate bracing to the fence.
[0003]    It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a support structure for
temporary fencing that at least mitigates some of the aforementioned problems.
Disclosure of the invention
[0004]    Accordingly, the present invention is a support structure for a line of temporary fencing
including:
          -   at least one fencing panel; and
          -   at least one picket; and
          -   at least one block,
wherein the at least one fencing panel includes an end post at opposite ends of the panel. The at
least one picket is able to be forcibly driven into the ground to a sufficient depth so that a
sufficient portion of the at least one picket rises vertically from the ground's surface. The at least
one block includes a first aperture through which the portion of the at least one picket, that rises
from the ground, is able to pass through, and the block is adapted to sit upon the surface of the
ground, with the picket extending upwardly from the block. The end post includes a short
extension portion, that extends at least below the bottom of the fencing panel, and the short

                                                     2
extension is adapted to be insertable into a second aperture that is adjacent the first aperture, so
that when inserted, the end post rises vertically adjacent to the picket, and thereby the end post is
substantially supported in its position upon the block, and held vertically, and the picket is so
shaped so that if a load is applied to the fence, thereby causing the fence post to want to lean
over, the fence post is prevented from leaning by abutting against the picket.
[0005]    Preferably, the picket has a cross sectional profile that includes voids into which the
respective end post is able to nest.
[0006]    Preferably, the picket is a star picket, and the shape of the first aperture in the block has
a complimentary star shape.
[0007]    Preferably, there are two second apertures, with one located on each side of the first
aperture, and both the first and second apertures are located centrally on the top face of the block.
[0008]    Optionally, multiple blocks may be stacked vertically on top of each other, and each
block is shaped to enable nested stacking.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0009]    Figures 1 (a) and (b) are an illustration of the prior art.
[0010]    Figures 2 (a), (b) and (c) illustrates several views of a fence assembled in accordance
with a preferred form of the present invention.
[0011]    Figures 3 (a), (b) and (c) illustrate the block that is used in one form of the present
invention.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
[0012]    Turning firstly to Figure 1, we are shown an illustration of prior art. As shown, prior art
fencing included a fencing panel 3 that includes an end post 5 that is insertable into an aperture in
a block 7. The fencing panels 3 are connected end to end to build up the fence line. As
illustrated, the adjacent end posts 5 of adjacent fencing panels 3 are supported by a back brace 9.

                                                     3
The back brace extends out from the back of the fence post a distance and is supported by
additional blocks 7. The back brace 9 is adjustable to allow for variations in the height of the
ground surface. This prior art arrangement is fine in many installations. However, there are a lot
of areas that need temporary fencing that do not have sufficient room to accommodate the space
needed to deploy the back brace 9.
[0013]     Turning to Figure 2, we can see an illustration of the present invention. It can be seen
that the present invention does not require a back brace 9. This allows the temporary fencing
assembly to be assembled in more places, including those that have significant space constraints.
In the present invention, the fencing panels 3 are similar to the ones used in the prior art. Each
panel 3 has an end post 5 at opposite ends of the panel. Instead of a back brace, the present
invention uses a picket 11 that is first vertically driven partway into the ground 13. The block 7
(best shown in Figure 3) includes a first aperture 15 that extends completely through the
thickness of the block 7. At least one block 7 is placed on the picket 11, and the picket is able to
pass through the first aperture 15, and the block 7 is able to rest on the ground's surface 13 with a
portion of the picket 11 extending upwardly from the top of the block 7.
[0014]     As illustrated in Figure 2, two fencing panels 3 are placed adjacent to the picket 11. The
picket 11 is so shaped, that it includes a plurality if vertical voids into which each respective end
post 5 is able to nest. Optionally, each end post 5 could be connected to the picket 11, however
in a preferred embodiment, each end post 5 is not connected to the picket 11, but instead abuts
against the side of the picket 11. The end post 5 includes a small extension 19. In this
illustration, the small extension 19 extends from both the top and bottom of the fencing panel 3.
This is preferred, as it allows the top and the bottom of the panel 3 to be interchanged. The small
extension 19 at the bottom of the end post 5 is adapted to be insertable into a second aperture 17
that is located in the block 7 adjacent to the first aperture 15. This is best illustrated in Figures 3
(a) and (c). When the small extension 19 is inserted into the second aperture 17, it is thereby held
in place. The inter-engagement between the small extension and its respective aperture is
sufficient to hold the end post 5 in place and in a vertical orientation, abutting against the picket
 11. Each block 7 is able to accommodate the respective end post 5 of two adjacent fencing
panels 3. If a load is applied to the fence, for example caused by wind, then the tendency for the
fence post 5 to lean over is resisted by the abutment of the fence post 5 against the picket 11.
[0015]     Turning finally to Figure 3, the picket is preferably a star picket, and preferably, the first

                                                    4
aperture 15 is shaped to accommodate the sectional profile of a star picket.
[0016]    In use, the fencing panels are laid out on the ground, and a star picket is driven into the
ground at appropriate intervals along the line that the fencing will be erected upon. At least one
block is then placed upon the portion of the picket that rises up from the ground's surface, and
portion of the picket is able to pass through the first aperture. The block is then able to rest upon
the surface of the ground. Each fencing panel can then be lifted, and the small extension can then
be inserted into the second aperture and is thereby held in place in a vertical orientation adjacent
to, and abutting, the picket. The abutment against the picket by each respective end post counters
any tendency for the end post to lean over when the fence is subjected to a load, for example
caused by wind.
[0017]    While the above description includes the preferred embodiments of the invention, it is to
be understood that many variations, alterations, modifications and/or additions may be introduced
into the constructions and arrangements of parts previously described without departing from the
essential features or the spirit or ambit of the invention.
[0018]    It will be also understood that where the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", are used in this specification, unless the context requires
otherwise such use is intended to imply the inclusion of a stated feature or features, but is not to
be taken as excluding the presence of other feature or features.
[0019]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                       5
   Claims
   1.     A support structure for a line of temporary fencing including:
          -    at least one fencing panel; and
          -    at least one picket, and
          -    at least one block,
          wherein the at least one fencing panel includes an end post at opposite ends of the panel,
   and wherein the at least one picket is able to be forcibly driven into the ground to a sufficient
   depth so that a sufficient portion of the at least one picket rises vertically from the ground's
   surface, and wherein the at least one block includes a first aperture through which the portion of
   the at least one picket, that rises from the ground, is able to pass through, and the block is adapted
   to sit upon the surface of the ground, with the picket extending upwardly from the block, and
   wherein the end post includes a short extension portion, that extends at least below the bottom of
   the fencing panel, and the short extension is adapted to be insertable into a second aperture that is
   adjacent the first aperture, so that when inserted, the end post rises vertically adjacent to the
   picket, and thereby the end post is substantially supported in its position upon the block, and held
   vertically, and the picket is so shaped so that if a load is applied to the fence, thereby causing the
   fence post to want to lean over, the fence post is prevented from leaning by abutting against the
   picket.
2. The support structure as defined in claim 1 wherein the picket has a cross sectional profile that
   includes voids into which the respective end post is able to nest.
3. The support structure as defined in claim 1 wherein the picket is a star picket, and the shape of
   the first aperture in the block has a complimentary star shape.
4. The support structure as defined in claim 1 wherein there are two second apertures, with one
   located on each side of the first aperture, and both the first and second apertures are located
   centrally on the top face of the block.
5. The support structure as defined in claim 1 wherein multiple blocks may be stacked vertically on
   top of each other, and each block is shaped to enable nested stacking.

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There are 2 pages of Drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
