ABSTRACT
 Method for feeding in and for handling waste
 material in the channel section of a pneumatic
wastes conveying system, in which method waste
 material or recycleable material is fed into a feed
 in container (10) from the input aperture (2) of an
input point (1) of a pneumatic pipe transport
 system for material and onwards into the channel
 section (20, 21, 22) between the feed-in container
 and the material conveying pipe (100), from where
 the   material    is  conveyed    along   with   the
transporting air via the material conveying pipe
 (100) to the delivery end of the pneumatic material
 conveying    system,    where    the    material   is
 separated from the transporting air. In the method
 the material (w) is acted upon by the combined
effect of suction and      replacement    air in the
 channel section (20, 21, 22) by bringing about
 compression in size in at least a part of the
 material (w) being conveyed, by means of an
 impediment (30) arranged between the conveying
pipe (100) and the material (w) to be handled, or
 against the impediment, before transportation of
 the material to the delivery end of the pneumatic
 transport system for wastes.

  WO 2015/015053                                                     PCT/F12014/050596
                 A                        1/9
                 111213
                                                                                           1
    2                                                 2    3         13
              1            7
C       5-                 7
        4                  9                            14
  s                               1-_
                                  l7    _ - ,18     s
          h20                       3,                               20
                           21      32A        10 10010
   FIG 1                 22                                                  FIG 2
                                                                - 19      External replacement
                                                                          air aperture
                13                                       3
                      15                           100 3
                            6       17   1v310                                                 191
                                                                                                 8
                                                                     18
                                                          3
       FIG 3            20     22                                              FIG 6
                  1213 1           1213           12     1   FIG 5
      2w    2                                32              11
         1                 71                               7~
        55                                 75
       4                   9 4             91
                                     94    9              ixl4     Replacement air
                         15              15 1                 6
                 (a)              (b)            (c)
            FIG 4

                                            1
   METHOD AND APPARATUS              FOR FEEDING IN AND HANDLING WASTE
   MATERIAL
   Technical Field
 5
   The disclosure relates generally to a method for feeding in and for handling waste
   material in material conveying systems, such as to pneumatic partial-vacuum
   transporting systems. The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for feeding in
   and for handling waster material, such as to input points or refuse chutes, with
10 which waste is conveyed, typically by gravity.
   Background Art
   Systems for the collection and conveying of wastes such as to the conveying of
15 household wastes are presented in publications WO 2009/080880, WO
   2009/080881, WO 2009/080882, WO 2009/080883, WO 2009/080884, WO
   2009/080885, WO 2009/080886, WO 2009/080887 and WO 2009/080888, among
   others.
20 Systems wherein wastes are conveyed in piping by means of a pressure
   difference or suction are known in the art. In these, wastes are conveyed long
   distances in the piping by sucking. It is typical to these systems that a partial
   vacuum apparatus is used to achieve a pressure difference, in which apparatus
   negative pressure is brought about in the conveying pipe with partial-vacuum
25 generators, such as with a fan, with vacuum pumps or with an ejector apparatus. A
   conveying pipe typically comprises at least one valve means, by opening and
   closing which the replacement air coming into the conveying pipe is regulated.
   Waste input points, e.g. rubbish containers or refuse chutes, are used in the
   systems at the waste material input end, into which waste input points material,
30 such as waste material, is fed and from which waste input points the material to be
   conveyed is conveyed into a conveying pipe by opening a discharge valve means,
   in which case, by means of the sucking effect achieved by the aid of the partial
   vacuum acting in the conveying pipe and also by means of the surrounding air
   pressure acting via the refuse chute, material such as e.g. waste material packed
35 into bags, is conveyed from the refuse chute into the conveying pipe and onwards
   to a reception point, where the material to be transported is separated from the
   transporting air and conveyed for further processing or e.g. into a shipping

                                                2
   container. The pneumatic waste conveying systems in question can be utilized
   particularly well in densely populated urban areas. These types of areas have tall
   buildings, in which the input of wastes into a pneumatic conveying system for
   wastes is performed via an input point, such as a refuse chute arranged, in the
 5 building.
   Material can be conducted from an input point along a refuse chute into a
   container that is lower in the vertical direction, or an intermediate container can be
   in connection with the input points, into which intermediate container material fed
10 from an input point is initially conducted and from where the waste material is
   conveyed onwards along the conveying piping to a reception point.
   The volume of an intermediate container between the input aperture of a waste
   input point and the discharge valve typically varies according to the embodiment.
15 Typically the volume can be 100-600 1. An advantage of using an intermediate
   container may be that it can increase the capacity of the input point, in which case
   the actual conveying system does not need to be started often. Depending on the
   application site, the conveying system is used 1-3 times a day to convey the
   material that has collected in the intermediate container. An advantage of a
20 conventional intermediate container may also be that the energy consumption of
   the conveying system can be reduced, because more waste can be conveyed with
   the same conveying cycle. One drawback, among others, of prior art solutions is
   that the space requirement of an intermediate container, especially when an input
   pipe is used as an intermediate container, is large. Typically an input pipe applied
25 in a vertical attitude as an intermediate container becomes long, and a rather deep
   excavation to install it in the ground must be arranged. The excavation work is
   expensive, particularly in rocky areas where blasting is required for achieving a
   trench. The installation depth of a typical intermediate container according to
   solutions known in the art is in the region of 2.5-3.5 m. The typical installation
30 depth in the installation of the conveying piping of a pneumatic waste conveying
   system is smaller than this, in the region of 1-1.5 m.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
35 common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                             3
   Summary
   Disclosed is a method for feeding in and for handling waste material in a channel
   section of a pneumatic material wastes conveying system. In the disclosed
 5 method, waste material or recyclable material is fed into a feed-in container from
   an input aperture of an input point of a pneumatic pipe transport system for
   material and onwards into the channel section between the feed-in container and
   the material conveying pipe. The material is then conveyed along with the
   transporting air via a material conveying pipe to the delivery end of the pneumatic
10 material wastes conveying system. The material is then separated from the
   transporting air.
   In the disclosed embodiment of the method, the material is acted upon by the
   combined effect of suction and replacement air in the channel section by achieving
15 compression in at least a part of the material being conveyed, by means of
   replacement air means conducting replacement air in a regulated manner into the
   channel section between the input point and the material, which means are
   adapted to open and close a pathway for replacement air, and by means of
   against an impediment, arranged between the conveying pipe and the material to
20 be handled, before transportation of the material to the delivery end of the
   pneumatic material wastes conveying system. The impediment is adapted to stop
   at least most of the material and to let an air flow past or through in such a way
   that in the channel section, by means of the waste material coming against the
   impediment thereby preventing movement of at least most of the material past the
25 impediment towards the material conveying pipe, and by replacement air means,
   compression of at least a part of the material intended for conveying can be
   achieved by the combined effect of suction and the replacement air
   Disclosed is also an apparatus for feeding in and for handling waste material in the
30 channel section of a pneumatic wastes conveying system. The disclosed
   embodiment of the apparatus comprises an input point of a pneumatic pipe
   transport system for material. The input point comprises an input aperture into a
   feed-in container and onwards into the channel section arranged between the
   feed-in container and the material conveying pipe. The channel section is adapted
35 to function as an intermediate container, from where the material is adapted to be
   conveyed via the material conveying pipe to the delivery end of the pneumatic
   wastes conveying system where the material is separated from the transporting

                                                 4
   air. The disclosed apparatus thus comprises a partial-vacuum generator, the
   suction side of which can be connected to act in the conveying pipe, wherein the
   apparatus comprises means for achieving compression in the channel section to
   at least a part of the material. The means for achieving compression may
 5 comprise at least one impediment, which can be arranged in the channel section
   between an input point and the conveying pipe. The at least one impediment is
   adapted to stop at least most of the material and to let an air flow past or through
   in such a way that in the channel section, by means of the waste material coming
   against the at least one impediment thereby preventing movement of at least most
10 of the material past the impediment towards the material conveying pipe. The
   means for achieving compression may also comprise replacement air means, for
   conducting replacement air in a regulated manner into the channel section
   between the input point and the material. The replacement air means are adapted
   to open and close a pathway for replacement air. Compression of at least a part of
15 the material intended for conveying can be achieved by the combined effect of
   suction and the replacement air for at least a part of the material that is intended
   for conveying.
   In some embodiments, an intermediate container at least partly deviates from the
20 vertical position, compression against the impediment of material fed into said
   container may be achieved by the combined effect of replacement air and the
   suction brought about by a partial-vacuum generator of a pneumatic conveying
   system for wastes.
25 The disclosure may enable a number of important advantages. By means of the
   disclosure compaction, i.e. compressed size, of the waste material may be
   achieved, in which case more material than earlier fits into the intermediate
   container. The compression in size can, depending on the application site, be in
   the region of 30 - 50%, depending on the type of waste and on the type of
30 recycleable material. The intermediate container can also be disposed in a
   horizontal position or it can comprise a horizontal section, in which case a deep
   installation pit is not needed for it, but instead a conventional excavation depth can
   be used for the waste conveying piping. Compression of the material is thus
   achieved as the combined effect of replacement air and the suction brought about
35 by a partial-vacuum generator of a pneumatic conveying system for wastes when
   the material is compressed against an impediment. The impediment can be a
   means arranged between the intermediate container section and the conveying

                                              5
   pipe, through which or around the sides of which means an air flow is able to
   travel. The impediment acts on the material by bringing about a support effect in it,
   which mainly prevents, to at least a significant extent, the passage of the material
   past or through the impediment. With the solution according to the disclosure an
 5 intermediate container of the desired size can be achieved, the material being fed
   into which container can be compressed in size by means of one or more
   impediments and an air flow. The entry of replacement air can be regulated e.g.
   with a separate replacement air valve arranged in the container part of an input
   point. By arranging a replacement air valve to open and close the pathway of
10 replacement air, the flow cross-sectional area of which is smaller than the flow
   cross-sectional area of the channel part to which it is connected and from which
   the suction acts, a sufficient replacement air flow for compression is achieved. At
   the same time the material of the intermediate containers of a number of input
   points can be compressed, i.e. compacted, simultaneously, in which case
15 considerable savings in time and energy are achieved. The compression can be
   performed at least partly at the same time as material is conveyed from some
   other input point or intermediate container of the system. A separate replacement
   air valve can also be used as a pilot valve, i.e. by opening first the replacement air
   valve and only then the discharge valve or larger shut-off means. In this case a
20 possible pressure shock and/or noise problem can be reduced. Another advantage
   achieved is that opening of the actual discharge valve is possible with a smaller
   force than without a pilot valve. According to one embodiment the impediment is a
   force-receiving means arranged in the container space of the intermediate
   container, which means can be placed into the container space and displaced out
25 of it with a drive device. Depending on the application site, the impediment can
   also be a shaper of the material, e.g. a formatter. According to one embodiment of
   the disclosure means for bringing replacement air into the vicinity of the
   impediment can be arranged in connection with the impediment, at least when
   material is conveyed in the conveying piping after the removal of the impediment.
30 In this case replacement air can be brought into the bulk of material being
   conveyed, which boosts the conveying efficiency of material in the conveying pipe.
   According to the disclosure input points, which are the input points of waste, such
   as waste receptacles or refuse chutes, can be used for feeding in material. The
35 method and apparatus according to the disclosure are particularly well suited in
   connection with conveying systems of waste material, such as waste material
   arranged in bags.

                                               6
   Brief description of the figures
   In the following, the disclosure will be described in more detail by the aid of an
 5 embodiment with reference to the attached drawings, wherein
   Fig. 1 presents an embodiment of an apparatus according to the disclosure, cross
   sectioned along the line I-I of Fig. 2,
10 Fig. 2 presents an embodiment of an apparatus according to the disclosure, from
   the direction C of Fig. 1,
   Fig. 3 presents an embodiment of an apparatus according to the disclosure,
   partially cross-sectioned at the point of the level s of Fig. 1,
15
   Figs. 4 (a) - 4 (c) present a cross-sectioned input point of an embodiment of the
   disclosure, in different operating states, in which (a) is in a first operating state, (b)
   in a second operating state, and (c) in a third operating state,
20 Fig. 5 presents a detail of an apparatus according to an embodiment of the
   disclosure, with the components separated from each other for the sake of clarity,
   Fig. 6 presents a detail of a device according to an embodiment of the disclosure,
25 Figs. 7a-7f present an apparatus according to an embodiment of the disclosure,
   cross-sectioned and in different operating states,
   Fig. 7g presents a side view of an input point according to an embodiment of the
   disclosure,
30
   Fig. 7h presents an input point according to an embodiment of the disclosure, as
   viewed in the direction of the input aperture,
   Figs. 8a-8h present an apparatus according to an embodiment of the disclosure, in
35 different operating states,

                                               7
   Figs. 9a-9d present a partially cross-sectioned detail of an apparatus according to
   an embodiment of the disclosure, in Fig. 9a cross-sectioned along the line IXa-IXa
   of Fig. 9b, the impeding means being in the first position, in Fig. 9b cross
   sectioned along the line IXb-IXb of Fig. 9a, the impeding means being in the
 5 second position, in Fig. 9c cross-sectioned along the line IXc-IXc of Fig. 9b, and in
   Fig. 9d a detail from Fig. 9b, the impeding means being in the first position,
   Fig. 10 presents a simplified view of an apparatus according to an embodiment of
   the disclosure, sectioned along the line X-X of Fig. 11,
10
   Fig. 11 presents an embodiment of an apparatus according to the disclosure, from
   the direction C of Fig. 10,
   Fig. 12 presents an embodiment of an apparatus according to the disclosure,
15 partially cross-sectioned at the point of the level s of Fig. 10,
   Figs. 13 (a) - 13 (c) present a cross-sectioned input point of an embodiment of the
   disclosure, in different operating states, in which (a) is in a first operating state, (b)
   in a second operating state,
20
   Fig. 14 presents one apparatus of embodiment of the disclosure,
   Figs. 15 (a) - (d) present an input point of an apparatus according to the
   disclosure, in different operating states and sectioned along the line XV-XV of Fig.
25 15 (e),
   Fig. 15 (e) presents an input point from the direction of the arrow E of Fig. (f),
   Fig. 15 (f) presents an input point from the direction of the arrow F of Fig. (e),
30 Fig. 15 (g) presents a cross-section along the line XVg-XVg of Fig. 15 (e),
   Fig. 15 (h) further presents the operating state of an input point of an apparatus of
   the disclosure, and
   Fig. 16 presents the replacement air valve of an embodiment of the disclosure, in
35 two operating states, (a) replacement air pathway open and (b) replacement air
   pathway closed.

                                                8
   Detailed description
   In the following detailed description, reference is made to accompanying drawings
   which form a part of the detailed description. The illustrative embodiments
 5 described in the detailed description, depicted in the drawings and defined in the
   claims, are not intended to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilised and
   other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the
   subject matter presented. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the
   present disclosure, as generally described herein and illustrated in the drawings
10 can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated and designed in a wide variety
   of different configurations, all of which are contemplated in this disclosure.
   Figs. 1, 2 and 3 present a simplified view of an apparatus according to the
   disclosure. The apparatus comprises an input point 1, which comprises an input
15 aperture 2 for feeding material w, such as waste material or recyclable material,
   into a feed-in container 10 of the input point, and onwards via an intermediate
   container 20, 21, 22 into the material conveying pipe 100. An openable and
   closable hatch 3, or corresponding is, in connection with the input aperture 2 in the
   embodiment of the figure, which hatch when closed covers the input aperture 2
20 and when opened enables the feeding in of material w via the input aperture into
   the feed-in container 10. In the embodiment of the figure an actuator 4, 5, such as
   a cylinder-piston combination, is arranged to drive the hatch 3 of the input
   aperture, to which actuator the hatch 3 is arranged movably between at least two
   positions, a first position, in which it covers the input aperture 2, and a second
25 position, in which the input aperture is open. In the embodiment of the figures a
   feed valve 6 is arranged in the bottom part of the feed-in container of the input
   point, which feed valve is arranged with an actuator 7, 8 to move between at least
   two positions; a first position in which the shut-off means of the valve closes the
   connection from the feed-in container into the intermediate container 20, 21, 22,
30 and a second position in which the pathway from the feed-in container 10 into the
   intermediate container 20, 21, 22 is open. The shut-off part of the feed valve 6 in
   the case of Fig. 1 is arranged to turn around an axis 9, but also other suitable
   valve means are feasible. A coupling part 15 is between the feed-in container 10
   and the intermediate container 20, 21, 22, with which coupling part the feed-in
35 container is connected to the intermediate container 20, 21, 22. An input point has
   an enclosure 13, which forms the outer walls of the input point. An input aperture 2
   is formed in the enclosure 13 as also are apertures 14 for conducting replacement

                                               9
   air to inside the enclosure. Means 12 for detecting the surface height of a feed-in
   container, i.e. for detecting whether there is material in the feed-in container, such
   as mixed waste packed into bags, or other waste material or recyclable material
   intended for transporting, are possibly arranged in an input point. The means 12
 5 for detecting the surface height can, according to one embodiment, be e.g. an
   ultrasound sensor, which is adapted to provide information to the control system
   about the presence of material in the feed-in container, e.g. about the amount of
   material or the filling extent of the container or on/off data when the amount of
   material exceeds a certain set limit. Figs. 1-3 present two parallel input points 1,
10 each of which has its own intermediate container 20, 21, 22, which is connected to
   a conveying pipe 100. The intermediate container in the embodiment of the figure
   is formed from the channel parts 20, 21, 22 between the input point 1 and the
   actual conveying pipe 10. In the embodiment of the figures the intermediate
   container comprises firstly a vertical channel section connected to the coupling
15 part 15 of an input point and a curving channel section 21 that joins the vertical
   channel section to the horizontal channel section 22 of the intermediate container.
   An impeding means 30 is arranged in the intermediate container section 22
   between the input point 1 and the conveying pipe 100, which impeding means in
20 the embodiment of Fig. 1 can be moved with drive means 34, 35 between at least
   two positions. Typically, an impeding means 30 can be moved between a first
   position, in which the impeding means 30 extends into the material passage space
   of the channel part of the intermediate container, and a second position, in which
   the impeding means does not essentially extend into the material passage space
25 of the channel part of the intermediate container. The impeding means is adapted
   to allow a replacement air flow past or through the impeding means but to prevent
   the passage of at least most of the material intended for conveying past or through
   the impeding means towards the conveying pipe 100. The impeding means 30 of
   Fig. 1 is presented in more detail in Figs. 9a-9d.
30
   The apparatus comprises means for conducting replacement air into the channel
   section of the intermediate container. Figs. 2 and 4 present apertures 14 formed in
   the enclosure 13 of an input point for conducting replacement air to inside the
   enclosure 13. Most of the replacement air is conducted via the feed-in container
35 10 into the channel space of the intermediate container 20, 21, 22 and onwards
   into the conveying pipe 100 when the suction of a partial-vacuum generator of the
   pneumatic conveying system for wastes is able to act from the conveying pipe 100

                                               10
   into the feed-in container. According to an embodiment of the disclosure at least
   one other replacement air duct 16, 17 is arranged into the channel section 22 of
   the intermediate container, into the vicinity of the impeding means 30, which
   replacement air duct in the embodiment of Fig. 1 and Fig. 3 is arranged from an
 5 input point 1, such as via the aperture 16, from inside its enclosure 13. A valve
   means 31 is arranged in the impeding means 30, which opens a medium
   connection from the second replacement air duct 17 into the channel section 22 of
   the intermediate container. A second replacement air duct 191, which is presented
   in Fig. 6 as a channel extending upwards from the surface s of the installation
10 depth 18 of the impeding means, can be arranged in addition to, or instead of, the
   replacement air duct 17 extending from an input point.
   Figs. 4a, 4b and 4c present the operation of an input point of one embodiment of
   the disclosure. Material w, intended for conveying in the system from an input
15 aperture 2 into the feed-in container 10 of an input point is placed in the input point
   of the pneumatic wastes conveying system. In this case, according to Fig. 4a, the
   hatch 3 of the input aperture is open (in the figure, in the bottom position).
   According to the embodiment of Fig. 4 in the bottom part of the feed-in container
   10 is a shut-off means, i.e. a valve 6, by opening and closing which the entry into
20 the intermediate container, and onwards into the material conveying pipe 100, of
   material intended for conveying is regulated. According to Fig. 4a when placing
   material into the feed-in container, the feed valve 6 is closed. When the material
   has been fed into the feed-in container of an input point, the hatch 3 of the input
   aperture closes and, e.g. on the basis of the observations of an indicator 12 of the
25 surface height of the feed-in container, the feed valve 6 is opened, in which case
   the material displaces from the feed-in container 10 via the coupling section 15
   into the channel section of the intermediate container, mainly from the effect of
   gravity. After this, when the suction of a partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic
   conveying system for wastes is able to act from the conveying pipe 100 into the
30 channel section of the intermediate container, the waste material w that has
   displaced into the intermediate container from an input point displaces in the
   intermediate container towards the conveying pipe. When the impediment 30
   arranged in the channel section of the intermediate container is in the channel
   section of the intermediate container, it essentially prevents the displacement of
35 waste material past the impediment 30 towards the conveying pipe 100. In this
   case the waste material w compacts, i.e. compresses together and against the
   impediment, from the combined effect of the suction and replacement air flow. As

                                              11
   a result of the compression, the volume of the waste material in the intermediate
   container decreases significantly, depending on the embodiment and on the
   properties of the waste material. In one case the volume of the compacted waste
   material cw has been reduced by 30 - 50% compared to the volume before
 5 compacting.
   The apparatus comprises at least one input point 1, a channel section 20, 21, 22
   functioning as an intermediate container, into which waste material is arranged to
   be conveyed from an input point 1 via a feed-in container 10, and also means for
10 conveying waste material from an input point into the intermediate container,
   where the material is compressed to be smaller in volume. Figs. 1-3 present two
   parallel input points 1, each of which has its own intermediate container, which is
   connected to the actual material conveying pipe. From the channel section 20, 21,
   22 functioning as an intermediate container the waste material is conveyed
15 onwards in the conveying piping 100 of the pneumatic waste material conveying
   system. In the conveying piping 100 the waste material displaces together with the
   transporting air to a reception point, such as a waste station, of the system, in
   which the waste material to be transported is separated in separating means from
   the transporting air and conveyed for further processing or into a shipping
20 container. The operation of a pneumatic wastes conveying system is not described
   in more detail here. Various examples of pneumatic wastes transporting systems
   are presented generally, e.g. in publications WO 2009/080880, WO 2009/080881,
   WO 2009/080882, WO 2009/080883, WO 2009/080884, WO 2009/080885, WO
   2009/080886, WO 2009/080887, WO 2009/080888, and WO/2011/110740.
25
   Figs. 7a-7f present the different phases of the operating states of one apparatus
   and method according to the disclosure.
   Fig. 7a presents an operating state in which the waste material w intended for
30 transporting and for handling in the apparatus according to the disclosure has
   been fed into the feed-in container 10 from the input aperture 2 of an input point 1.
   The pathway from the feed-in container 10 into the channel section 20, 21 of the
   intermediate container is closed in Fig. 7a with a valve means 6, the shut-off
   means of which functions in Fig. 7a as the base of the feed-in container 10. The
35 waste material w fed in earlier from the feed-in container 10 has already been
   displaced into the intermediate container, into the channel section 20, 21, mainly
   by means of gravity. In the operating state of Fig. 7b the contents of the feed-in

                                              12
   container have been emptied into the channel section 20 of the intermediate
   container. In this case the material has already displaced in the intermediate
   container to on top of the waste material w that was already in the intermediate
   container (Fig. 7a), i.e. in the conveying direction following after the material
 5 already in the intermediate container. The hatch 3 of the input aperture 2 is closed
   already before the opening of the valve means 6 and the emptying of the waste
   material w from the feed-in container 10 into the intermediate container.
   At least one impeding means 30 is arranged in the intermediate container before
10 the conveying pipe. In the embodiment of the figures the impeding means is a
   member extending into the channel space of the intermediate container, which
   member is adapted to receive at least a part of the force effect of the material w
   when the material is conveyed in the channel space of the intermediate container
   by means of suction and a replacement air flow against the impeding means 30. In
15 the embodiment of Figs. 7a-7f a drive device 34, 35 is arranged to drive the
   impeding means 30, by the aid of which drive device the impeding means 30 is
   arranged to move between at least two positions, a first position, in which the
   impeding means 30 extends into the channel space (e.g. Fig. 7a) and a second
   position, in which the impeding means 30 does not essentially extend into the
20 channel space (Fig. 7f).
   Fig. 7c presents an operating state in which the suction of a partial-vacuum
   generator of the pneumatic pipe transport system for wastes is able to act from the
   conveying pipe 100 into the channel section of the intermediate container, in which
25 case the waste material w that has displaced into the intermediate container from
   an input point 1 displaces in the intermediate container towards the conveying pipe
   100. When the impediment 30 arranged in the channel section of the intermediate
   container is in the channel section of the intermediate container, it essentially
   prevents the displacement of waste material past the impediment 30 towards the
30 conveying pipe 100. In this case the waste material w compacts, i.e. compresses
   together and against the impediment 30, from the combined effect of the suction
   and replacement air flow. As a result of the compression, the volume of the waste
   material in the intermediate container decreases significantly, depending on the
   embodiment and on the properties of the waste material. In one case the volume
35 of the compacted waste material cw has been reduced by 30 - 50% compared to
   the volume before compacting. In the situation of Fig. 7c the compacted waste
   material cw is in volume approx. 50% of the volume of the waste material w before

                                                 13
   compacting (Fig. 7b). In compacting, the valve means 6 can be opened for a while,
   depending on the application site, e.g. for 5-10 seconds; the time can also be
   shorter or longer than this.
 5 When the waste material has been compacted, more waste material w can be fed
   into the intermediate container, following after the compacted waste material cw in
   the conveying direction of the material. This is presented in Fig. 7d. In this case
   the suction typically does not act in the intermediate container from the direction of
   the conveying pipe, but instead the waste material is fed into the intermediate
10 container from the feed-in container mainly from the effect of gravity. In the
   embodiment of the figure also the impeding means 30 is in the first position and
   keeps the material from displacing into the conveying pipe 100.
   When the suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic pipe conveying
15 system is switched on for emptying the other containers of the system, the valve 6
   is arranged into the closed position, in which case replacement air does not get
   into the intermediate container from the input point of Fig. 7e nor onwards via it
   into the conveying pipe 100. In this case the material that is in the intermediate
   container of the figure stays there and does not displace into the conveying pipe
20 100. In this case also the impeding means 30 is in the first position. When the
   valve 6 is in the closed position, still more waste material can be fed in via the
   input aperture 2 into the feed-in container 10 of the input point. The amount to be
   fed in depends on the volume of the feed-in container of the input point. According
   to one embodiment e.g. 4-5 units of conventional waste material w packed into
25 waste bags can be adapted to fit into a feed-in container 10. In the figures the
   uncompressed waste material w is described as simplified balls, each of which can
   present a waste bag packed with waste. The compressed waste material cw is
   described in the figures as objects smaller than the balls.
30 In the operating state of Fig. 7f it is desired to convey the waste material w, cw that
   has collected in the feed-in container and/or intermediate container 20, 21, 22 of
   an input point 1 in the system into the conveying pipe 100, in which case the valve
   6 is opened and the impeding means 30 is displaced out of the channel space of
   the intermediate container. In this case the intermediate container empties and the
35 waste material displaces from the combined effect of suction and a replacement
   air flow from the intermediate container towards the conveying pipe 100 along with

                                             14
   the transporting air and along the conveying pipe towards the delivery end of the
   pneumatic wastes conveying system.
   As presented in the embodiment of the disclosure according to the figures, a
 5 horizontal channel section 22 is arranged in the intermediate container. In this
   case material that has been conveyed by gravity to the starting end of the
   intermediate container, i.e. into the vertical channel section 20, and into the
   curving channel section 21 following it, is conveyed in the horizontal section by
   arranging a negative pressure effect in the intermediate container from the
10 direction of the conveying pipe and, correspondingly, replacement air from the
   direction of the input point, in which case the waste material displaces in the
   horizontal part under the combined effect of these towards the impeding means 30
   and/or towards the conveying pipe 100.
15 The horizontal channel section provides the apparatus according to the disclosure
   with the advantage, among others, that the size of the intermediate container can
   easily be significantly increased compared to an earlier vertical intermediate
   container, e.g. by arranging the location in which the impeding means is situated
   at the desired distance in the material conveying direction from the input aperture
20 or feed-in container of an input point.
   According to one embodiment of the disclosure a number of impeding means can
   be arranged in the channel section of an intermediate container. Figs. 8a-8h
   present an embodiment of the disclosure wherein there are two impeding means
25 30, 30', which are arranged at a distance from each other in the conveying
   direction of the material in the channel space of the intermediate container. There
   can be more impeding means than this if the length of the intermediate container
   and/or the properties of the waste category so require. According to an
   embodiment of the disclosure at least one second replacement air duct 16, 17, 17'
30 is arranged into the channel section 22 of the intermediate container, into the
   vicinity of the first impeding means 30, which replacement air duct in the
   embodiment of Figs. 8a-8h is arranged from an input point 1, such as via the
   aperture 16, from inside its enclosure 13. A replacement air duct section 17' is
   arranged between the installation depth 18 of the first impeding means 30 and the
35 installation depth 18' of the second impeding means 30'. The impeding means is
   arranged in an installation depth 18, 18' in such a way that a medium connection
   can be formed from the replacement air duct 17, 17' into the channel section of the

                                               15
   intermediate container, into the vicinity of the impeding means. In the embodiment
   of the figures each impeding means 30, 30' is arranged in the channel section of
   an intermediate container with a pipe section 32, 32', which is fixed to the channel
   section 22 with a joint arrangement required by the application site.
 5
   A valve means 31, 31' is arranged in the impeding means 30, 30', which valve
   means opens a medium connection from the second replacement air duct 17, 17'
   into the channel section 22, 22' of the intermediate container. A second
   replacement air duct 191, which is presented in Fig. 6 as a channel extending
10 upwards from the surface s of the installation depth 18 of the impeding means, can
   be arranged in addition to, or instead of, the replacement air duct 17 extending
   from an input point 1.
   In the following the operation of the apparatus is explained with reference to Figs.
15 8a-8h, when a number, in the figures two, impeding means 30, 30', have been
   arranged in the channel section of the intermediate container at a distance from
   each other in the conveying direction of the material in the channel section
   between an input point 1 and the conveying pipe 100.
20 Fig. 8a presents an operating state in which the waste material w intended for
   transporting and for handling in the apparatus according to the disclosure has
   been fed into the feed-in container 10 from the input aperture 2 of an input point 1.
   The hatch 3 of the input aperture 2 is closed already before the opening of the
   valve means 6 and the emptying of the waste material w from the feed-in container
25 10 into the intermediate container. In Fig. 8a the waste material w fed in from the
   feed-in container 10 has already been displaced into the intermediate container,
   into the channel section 20, 21, mainly by means of gravity. In the operating state
   of Fig. 8a the contents of the feed-in container have been emptied into the channel
   section 20 of the intermediate container.
30
   According to Fig. 8a, which presents a diagrammatic and simplified view of the
   apparatus sectioned along the line s, two input points 1 are arranged side-by-side.
   These can be intended for e.g. different categories of waste or e.g. to increase
   capacity.
35
   Fig. 8c presents an operating state in which the suction of a partial-vacuum
   generator of the pneumatic pipe transport system for wastes is able to act from the

                                              16
   conveying pipe 100 into the channel section of the intermediate container, in which
   case the waste material w that has displaced into the intermediate container from
   an input point 1 displaces in the intermediate container towards the conveying pipe
   100. The waste material is able to be conveyed away from the channel section of
 5 intermediate container of the first impediment 30 arranged in the channel section
   of the intermediate container towards the second impeding means 30', which is in
   the channel section of the intermediate container and essentially prevents the
   displacement of waste material w past the second impediment 30' towards the
   conveying pipe 100. In this case the waste material w compacts, i.e. compresses
10 together and against the second impediment 30', from the combined effect of the
   suction and replacement air flow. As a result of the compression, the volume of the
   waste material in the intermediate container decreases significantly, depending on
   the embodiment and on the properties of the waste material. In one case the
   volume of the compacted waste material cw has been reduced by 30 - 50%
15 compared to the volume before compacting. In the situation of Fig. 8c the
   compacted waste material cw is in volume approx. 50% of the volume of the waste
   material w before compacting (Fig. 7b).
   Fig. 8d presents an operating state in which the first impeding means has been
20 displaced into the first position, in which it extends into the channel part of the
   intermediate container. In this case the material to be handled can be fed into the
   intermediate container, which material compresses against the first impeding
   means in a corresponding manner to what is presented in Fig. 8c in connection
   with the second impeding means.
25
   When the waste material has been compacted against the feed means, more
   waste material w can be fed into the intermediate container, following after the
   compacted waste material cw in the conveying direction of the material. This is
   presented in Figs. 8f and 8g. In this case the suction typically does not act in the
30 intermediate container from the direction of the conveying pipe, but instead waste
   material is fed into the intermediate container from the feed-in container mainly
   from the effect of gravity. In the embodiment of the figure also the impeding means
   30, 30' are in the first position and keep the material from displacing into the
   conveying pipe 100.
35
   When the suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic pipe conveying
   system is switched on for emptying the other containers of the system, the valve 6

                                                17
   is arranged into the closed position, in which case replacement air does not get
   into the intermediate container from the input point of Fig. 8g nor onwards via it
   into the conveying pipe 100. In this case the material that is in the intermediate
   container of the figure stays there and does not displace into the conveying pipe
 5 100. In this case also the impeding means 30, 30' are in the first position. When
   the valve 6 is in the closed position, still more waste material can be fed in via the
   input aperture 2 into the feed-in container 10 of an input point.
   In the operating state of Fig. 8h it is desired to convey the waste material w, cw
10 that has collected in the feed-in container and/or intermediate container 20, 21, 22
   of an input point 1 in the system into the conveying pipe 100, in which case the
   valve 6 is opened and the impeding means 30, 30' are displaced out of the
   channel space of the intermediate container. In this case the waste material
   displaces from the combined effect of suction and a replacement air flow from the
15 intermediate container 10 towards the conveying pipe 100 along with the
   transporting air and along the conveying pipe towards the delivery end of the
   pneumatic wastes conveying system.
20 At least one impeding means 30, 30' is arranged in the intermediate container 20,
   21, 22, 22' before the conveying pipe. In the embodiment of the figures the
   impeding means is a member extending into the channel space of the intermediate
   container, which member is adapted to receive at least a part of the force effect of
   the material w when the material is conveyed in the channel space of the
25 intermediate container by means of suction and a replacement air flow against the
   impeding means 30. The impeding means is adapted to let an air flow past or
   through. One embodiment of the impeding means is described in more detail in
   Figs. 9a-9d. The impeding means 30 is movably arranged by the aid of a drive
   device, which in the embodiment of the figures is a cylinder-piston combination 34,
30 35, 36. The impeding means assembly, with which it is arranged to be fixed into
   the channel section of the intermediate container, comprises a channel part 32,
   which is adapted to be fixed to the channel section of the intermediate container
   e.g. with a flanged joint or with some other applicable joint arrangement. An
   aperture 33 has been formed in the channel section 32, from which aperture the
35 impeding means 30 can be arranged into the channel space of the channel section
   and can be displaced out of it. In the embodiment of the figure the impeding
   means 30 is attached to the moving part of the drive device, which in the figure is

                                                18
   the rod 35 of a piston, the piston rod is attached to the piston part 36, which is
   movably arranged in the cylinder space of the cylinder part 34. The piston is
   moved by conducting pressure medium into the cylinder space in the manner
   desired, that is per se known in the art, to different sides of the piston via the
 5 conveying channels 37, 38 for the medium.
   The device comprises a valve means 31, the shut-off part of which is adapted to
   close the aperture 33 into the channel space when the impeding means 30 is in
   the first position, i.e. in the channel space, preventing the displacement of material
10 in the channel part of the intermediate container. According to the embodiment of
   Figs. 9a-9d, the shut-off part of the valve means 31 is arranged between an
   impeding means 30 and the moving part, such as the piston rod 35, of the drive
   device. A medium pathway 39, 40 is arranged in the impeding means assembly for
   conducting replacement air from the replacement air duct 17, 191 into the channel
15 space when the impeding means 30 is in the second position or at least when a
   pathway has opened between the shut-off means 31 of the valve and the aperture
   33.
   The installation depth 18 of the impeding means can form a part of the pathway of
20 the medium, the walls of which installation depth can, according to the
   embodiment of Figs. 9a-9c, restrict the pathway of replacement air via the aperture
   33 into the channel of the intermediate container.
   According to Fig. 5 the impeding means assembly can be arranged in the
25 installation depth 18 as an entity, which comprises an impeding means 30, a shut
   off part 31 of the valve, a cylinder-piston combination 34, 35, 36 and conveying
   channel parts 38, 39 for the medium, which channel parts can be arranged with
   snap-on connectors 42, 43 to the conveying channels coming from the medium
   source.
30
   By arranging the input aperture 33 of the replacement air duct in the channel in the
   vicinity of the impeding means, the displacement efficiency of material from the
   point of the impeding means towards the conveying pipe 100 can be boosted,
   when the impeding means is arranged into the second position out of the channel
35 space and suction from the conveying pipe side is switched on. At the same time
   replacement air also enters the channel space via the aperture 33.

                                               19
   According to one embodiment of the disclosure a shaper of material, typically a
   rotary shaper, i.e. a formatter, is applied as an impeding means. In this case waste
   can be pre-compressed by opening the valve of the material conveying piping in a
   situation in which the handling means of the rotary shaper are not rotating. Waste
 5 material does not in this case travel to any significant extent through the rotary
   shaper from the intermediate container side to the conveying piping 100 side, but
   instead the material is significantly compressed in size, in which case the volume
   of the material decreases e.g. by 30 - 50%. Possible material that has traveled
   through the rotary shaper in the precompression phase can be conducted e.g. into
10 the mixed waste in the material delivery end of the conveying system.
   Rotary shapers and the operation of them are presented in more detail in
   publications WO/2011/098666,           WO/2011/098667, WO/2011/098668             and
   WO/2011/098669.
15
   Figs. 10 - 13 present an embodiment of the disclosure, in which the discharge
   valve 50 of the input point or of the intermediate container is arranged only after
   the impeding means 30 in the direction of travel of the material. In this case the
20 input point has no valve between the input point and the intermediate container.
   According to the figures, a hatch 3 is in connection with the input aperture 2 of an
   input point 1, which hatch is hinged at the top part in the embodiment of the
   figures. The hatch is opened and closed with the drive device 4, 5. When the hatch
   is open the material w can be fed via the input aperture 2 into the feed-in container
25 10, from where the material is displaced mainly by gravity at first into the first
   channel part 20 of the intermediate container, which channel part in the figure is
   mainly vertical. After the vertical channel section is a curved channel section 21,
   which connects to the horizontal channel section 22 of the intermediate container.
   Between the horizontal channel section 22 and the conveying pipe 100 is an
30 impeding means 30, and a discharge valve 50 is arranged between the impeding
   means 30 and the conveying pipe. The shut-off means 50 of the discharge valve
   has at least two positions, a first position, in which case the pathway from the
   intermediate container into the conveying pipe is closed and a second position, in
   which case the pathway from the intermediate container into the conveying pipe is
35 open. The drive device of the discharge valve is a cylinder-piston combination 54,
   55 in the figure. The discharge valve is arranged with a joint part 52 in the channel
   section between the channel section 22 of the intermediate container and the

                                              20
   conveying pipe 100, e.g. with a flanged joint or with some other suitable joining
   method. The discharge valve can be e.g. a gate valve of the type presented e.g. in
   publication W02007135237A1 or in publication W02010029213A1, which
   possibly also comprises means for cleaning the space between the walls of the
 5 valve body with pressure medium, e.g. with replacement air to be conducted via
   the channel 17. In the embodiment of the figure the impeding means and the
   discharge valve are arranged in a shared installation depth 18, i.e. in an
   installation trench.
10 An input aperture 2 is formed in the enclosure 13 of an input point 1, which
   enclosure forms the outer walls of the input point, for feeding material into the
   feed-in container of the input point, as well as apertures 14 for conducting
   replacement air to inside the enclosure. The replacement air passes to inside the
   enclosure through the grating-type apertures 14 and circulates via the top into the
15 container 10, as presented in Fig. 13a.
   In this case the discharge valve 50 is opened for a while for compressing against
   the impeding means 30 the material that has been conveyed into the intermediate
   container by gravity. Typically the discharge valve is opened, depending on the
20 application site, e.g. for 5-10 seconds.
   The second pathway 17 for replacement air is arranged to conduct replacement air
   into connection with the impeding means. According to Fig. 10 the second
   pathway 17 for replacement air is arranged to start after the input point 1 from the
25 top part of the material pathway, e.g. after the coupling part 15, and extends into
   the installation depth 18. From the installation depth 18 the replacement air passes
   e.g. via the replacement air pathway and apertures 40 and 39 into the vicinity of
   the impeding means 30 when the impeding means has been displaced into the
   second position and its valve means 31 has been opened.
30
   Figs. 14 and also 15a-d present yet another embodiment of the disclosure. In it is
   arranged a separate replacement air valve 60, which has at least two positions, a
   closed position, in which case the shut-off means 61 closes the channel part,
   which in Figs. 14 and 15 is the pathway 63 for replacement air arranged in the wall
35 of the feed-in container 10, and a second position in which the pathway 63 for
   replacement air is open (e.g. Figs. 14 and 15 (b)). The shut-off means of the valve
   is driven with a drive device 62. A separate replacement air valve 60 according to

                                                21
   one embodiment of the disclosure is presented in more detail in Figs. 16 in two
   operating states; in Fig. 16 (a) replacement air pathway open and in Fig. 16 (b)
   replacement air pathway 63 closed. The separate replacement air valve has a
   drive device 62, which is arranged to move the shut-off means 61 between the
 5 aforementioned at least two positions. Apertures are arranged in the body 64 of
   the replacement air valve 60, from which apertures replacement air passes to the
   point of the pathway 63 that is openable and closable with the shut-off means 61
   of the valve. The drive device can be e.g. a medium-driven cylinder-piston unit or
   e.g. an electrically-operated drive device.
10
   The input point of the figure has an enclosure 13 and a first input aperture 2
   arranged in it. An openable and closable hatch 3, which is driven with a drive
   device 4, 5 is arranged in connection with the first input aperture. A second shut
   off means 6', and its drive means 7, 8, is arranged inside the enclosure. The
15 second shut-off means 6' is arranged in the top part of the feed-in container in a
   manner allowing turning from a hinged point 9. The second shut-off means 6' has
   at least two positions; a first position in which it closes the pathway into the feed-in
   container 10, and a second position in which the pathway into the feed-in
   container is open. So that the material intended for conveying can be fed into the
20 feed-in container 10 of an input point 1 according to the embodiment of the figure,
   both the hatch 3 and the second shut-off means 6' must be in the open positions.
   In the input point of Figs. 15 (a)-(h) is a feed-in container 10, in the channel of
   which is an inwardly contracting point 10', the purpose of which is to taper the
25 material channel of the feed-in container so that, inter alia, the infeeding of
   overlarge objects into the feed-in container of the input point is prevented. This is
   illustrated in Fig. 15 (h), wherein the bottom part w1 of a (non-suitable) object
   being fed in is touching the tapered section 10' of the feed-in container, the middle
   part wm of the object is touching the top edge of the feed container 10, and the top
30 part w2 extends out of the feed aperture 2 formed in the enclosure 13 of the input
   point 1. In the embodiment of the figure a separate replacement air valve 60 is
   arranged in the wall of the feed-in container 10 on the same side as the
   contracting point 10', and arranged after the contracting point in the material infeed
   direction an outwardly expanding channel in the wall section 10" from the
35 narrowest point of the feed-in container.

                                               22
   Fig. 15 (a) presents the operating state of an input point 1 of an embodiment of the
   disclosure, in which material is fed via the feed-in container 10 of an input point
   into the channel section of the intermediate container. In this case the hatch 3 of
   the input aperture is open and the second shut-off means 6' arranged in the top
 5 part of the feed container is open, in which case material can be fed into the feed
   in container. The separate replacement air valve 60 is in the position. The suction
   of the partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic material conveying system does
   not act in the feed-in container of the input point.
10 Fig. 15 (b) and Fig. 14 present a second operating state of an input point 1 of the
   embodiment of the disclosure, in which compacting, i.e. compression, of the
   material fed into the intermediate container via the feed-in container of an input
   point is performed by the aid of the impediment 30, or against it, by utilizing the
   combined effect of suction and a replacement air flow on the material. A separate
15 replacement air valve 60 is adapted to be used more particularly in connection
   with the compacting, in which case the replacement air pathway 63 into the feed-in
   container and onwards into the channel parts of the intermediate container is
   opened with the shut-off means 61 driven by the drive device 62 of the
   replacement air valve. In this case replacement air is able to travel through the
20 apertures 14 of the enclosure 13 of the input point and onwards into the material
   conveying channel via the pathway 63 opened by replacement air valve arranged
   inside the enclosure, into the channel parts 20, 21, 22 that function as an
   intermediate container. The suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the
   pneumatic material conveying system acts from the conveying pipe 100, in which
25 case the material in the intermediate container is compressed by means of the
   impediment 30 or against it. The material can, depending on its type, be
   compressed in size e.g. by 30 - 50% from its original volume. The replacement air
   valve is kept in the open position for the time required for compression, which can
   vary according to the application site. A rather short time for the valve to be open,
30 e.g. 2-10 seconds, preferably 2-5 seconds, can be sufficient for the compression.
   The size of the replacement air valve can be significantly smaller than the cross
   sectional area of the shut-off valve or of the channel section to be used in
   conveying material. In this case one advantage, among others, achieved is that
   the material compacts, i.e. compresses in size, optimally and e.g. not too tightly
35 into the channel part or into itself in the channel part. The small size of the
   replacement air valve also makes it possible for a large plurality of intermediate
   containers to be compacted simultaneously, in which case savings in time and

                                               23
   energy are achieved. According to one embodiment the materials fed into the
   channel sections 20 of an intermediate container are compacted simultaneously.
   Likewise, the compacting of material that has collected in the channel sections of
   the intermediate containers can be done partly in conjunction with other conveying
 5 suction.
   In tests according to one embodiment a suction aperture of 80mm diameter was
   used for replacement air in a pipe of 350mm diameter, which proved to be
   suitable. In this case it was possible to compress mixed waste by 50% in a few
10 seconds.
   A small replacement air valve 60 can also be used as a pilot valve in the
   conveying of material, in which case first the separate replacement air valve 60 is
   opened and only then the larger shut-off valve 6, 6', 50, in which case a pressure
15 shock and a possible noise problem are avoided.
   Fig. 15 (c) presents the operating state of an input point 1 of one embodiment of
   the disclosure, in which the material that has collected in the intermediate
   container, in the channel parts of it, and the compressed material cw is conveyed
20 into the conveying pipe 100. In this case, according to one embodiment, a
   separate replacement air valve 60 is first opened and after its opening a second
   shut-off means 6', in which case a possible noise problem can be reduced in the
   manner described above. The suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the
   pneumatic material conveying system in this case acts from the direction of the
25 conveying pipe, in which case the material displaces by the combined effect of
   suction and a replacement air flow towards the conveying pipe 100 and onwards
   towards the delivery end of the pneumatic material conveying system, where the
   material being conveyed is separated from the transporting air.
30 Fig. 15 (d) presents the operating state of an input point of one embodiment
   according to the disclosure when the feed-in container and/or intermediate
   container of some other input point is emptied. In this case both the hatch 2 of the
   enclosure 13 and the second shut-off means 6' and the separate replacement air
   valve 60 are closed. In this case the material that is in the input point of Fig. 15 (d),
35 or in the intermediate container of it, does not displace towards the conveying pipe
   100.

                                                24
   For the sake of clarity, Figs. 15 (e) and 15 (f) further present a front view (e) and a
   side view (f) of the input point according to the embodiment of the disclosure. In
   addition, Fig. 15 (g) further presents a cross-section along the line XVg-XVg of Fig.
   15 (e), in which is seen the round shape of the input point, as viewed from above,
 5 and the contracting wall 10' of the feed-in container as well as the input aperture 2
   and its hatch 3.
   The disclosure thus relates to a method for feeding in and for handling waste
   material in the channel section of a pneumatic wastes conveying system, in which
10 method waste material or recycleable material is fed into a feed-in container 10
   from the input aperture 2 of an input point 1 of a pneumatic pipe transport system
   for material and onwards into the channel section 20, 21, 22 between the feed-in
   container and the material conveying pipe 100, from where the material is
   conveyed along with the transporting air via the material conveying pipe 100 to the
15 delivery end of the pneumatic material conveying system, where the material is
   separated from the transporting air. In the method the material w is acted upon by
   the combined effect of suction and replacement air in the channel section 20, 21,
   22 by bringing about compression in at least a part of the material w being
   conveyed, by means of an impediment 30 arranged between the conveying pipe
20 100 and the material w to be handled, or against the impediment, before
   transportation of the material to the delivery end of the pneumatic transport system
   for wastes.
   According to one embodiment in the method at least a part of the material w fed
25 into a channel section 20, 21, 22 intended to function as an intermediate container
   is acted upon, by opening a pathway from the direction of the conveying pipe 100
   into the channel section 20, 21, 22 intended to function as an intermediate
   container to the suction side of the pneumatic partial-vacuum generator, and by
   opening a pathway from the opposite side of the material w for the replacement air
30 pathway.
   According to one embodiment the material w is acted upon in the channel section
   20, 21, 22 of the intermediate container arranged between an input point 1 and the
   material conveying pipe 100, which channel section is at least partly arranged in a
35 direction traveling in a direction essentially deviating from the vertical, preferably to
   travel in an essentially horizontal direction.

                                              25
   According to one embodiment material w is fed from an input point into a channel
   section 20, 21, 22, which is an intermediate container of material, and the material
   is acted upon in the intermediate container in stages, in which case in a first phase
   material is fed from the input aperture 2 of an input point 1 into the channel section
 5 20, 21, 22 functioning as an intermediate container mainly by means of gravity, in
   the second phase material is conveyed in the channel section against an
   impediment 30, 30' and is compressed by the combined effect of suction and
   replacement air, in the third phase possibly more material is fed in from the input
   aperture of the input point by gravity into the channel part functioning as an
10 intermediate container, and in the fourth phase the impediment is acted upon in
   such a way that the material w that is in the intermediate container and/or the
   compressed material cw is conveyed by the combined effect of suction and
   replacement air from the channel section 20, 21, 22 into the conveying piping 100,
   and onwards towards the material delivery end of the pneumatic material
15 conveying system.
   According to one embodiment when compressing material, the entry of
   replacement air is allowed, e.g. by opening a valve 6 or a separate replacement air
   valve 60 for a certain time.
20
   According to one embodiment at least when compressing the material and/or at
   least in the first phase the pathway 63 of the replacement air is opened, the flow
   aperture of which pathway is smaller than the flow cross-sectional area of the
   channel part from which the suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the
25 pneumatic material conveying system acts.
   According to one embodiment between the input point and the material conveying
   pipe are a number of impediments 30, 30' that are at a distance from each other in
   the material conveying direction, in which case at first the material is fed to a
30 second impediment 30' that is farther from the input point and compression of the
   waste is brought about by means of the second impediment, or against it, and
   after that a first impediment 30 that is nearer the input point is placed to extend
   into the channel section of the intermediate container and compression of the
   waste is brought about by means of the first impediment 30 that is nearer the input
35 point 1, or against said impediment.

                                             26
   According to one embodiment replacement air is brought into the vicinity of the
   impediment 30, 30' when material is conveyed from the point of the impediment
   towards the conveying pipe.
 5 According to one embodiment the material w is compressed in size by 30 - 50%.
   According to one embodiment a replacement air valve 31 is arranged in
   connection with the impediment 30, 30', which valve allows the entry of
   replacement air into the channel part, at least when the impediment 30, 30' is
10 arranged into a position in which material is conveyed towards the conveying pipe.
   According to one embodiment the channel section 20, 21, 22 functioning as an
   intermediate container is arranged to be installed to a depth that is approx. 1 - 1.5
   meters from the surface s of the ground.
15
   According to one embodiment the impediment is a separate impeding means 30,
   30', which can be moved between at least two positions, a first position, in which
   the impeding means 30, 30' extends into the channel space of the channel
   section, and a second position, in which the impeding means does not essentially
20 extend into the channel space of the channel section, and through or past which
   impediment the replacement air flow passes, or that the impediment is another
   means, such as shaper of the material, e.g. a rotary shaper, a handling means of
   which do not feed material from the channel section 22 towards the conveying
   pipe 100 when the shaper of the material is used as an impediment.
25
   The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for feeding in and for handling waste
   material in the channel section of a pneumatic wastes conveying system, which
   apparatus comprises an input point 1 of a pneumatic pipe transport system for
   material, which input point comprises an input aperture 2 into a feed-in container
30 10 and onwards into the channel section 20, 21, 22 arranged between the feed-in
   container and the material conveying pipe 100, which channel section is adapted
   to function as an intermediate container, from where the material is adapted to be
   conveyed via the material conveying pipe 100 to the delivery end of the pneumatic
   wastes conveying system, where the material is separated from the transporting
35 air, which apparatus comprises a partial-vacuum generator, the suction side of
   which can be connected to act in the conveying pipe 100. The apparatus
   comprises at least one impediment 30, which can be arranged in the channel

                                               27
   section 20, 21, 22 between an input point and the conveying pipe 100, which
   impediment is adapted to stop at least most of the material and to let an air flow
   past or through in such a way that in the channel section 20, 21, 22, by means of
   the waste material coming against the impediment thereby preventing movement
 5 of at least most of the material past the impediment towards the material
   conveying pipe, and replacement air means so that compression of at least a part
   of the material intended for conveying can be achieved by the combined effect of
   suction and the replacement air for at least a part of the material w that is intended
   for conveying.
10
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises means for opening and
   closing the connection to the suction side of the pneumatic partial-vacuum
   generator of the channel section 20, 21, 22 and/or replacement air means 6', 60,
   for conducting replacement air in a regulated manner into the channel section
15 between an input point and the material w, which means are adapted to open and
   close a pathway for replacement air.
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises a channel section 20, 21,
   22 arranged between an input point 1 and the material conveying pipe 100, which
20 channel section comprises a channel section deviating from the vertical direction,
   such as a mainly horizontal channel section, which is adapted to function as an
   intermediate container.
   According to one embodiment the volume of the intermediate container is
25 determined by the distance of the impediment 30 from an input point 1.
   According to one embodiment a number of impediments 30, 30' that are a
   distance from each other in the material conveying direction are arranged between
   an input point 1 and the material conveying pipe.
30
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises means 17, 18, 31, 33 for
   bringing replacement air into the vicinity of the impediment 30, 30'.
   According to one embodiment a replacement air valve 31                is arranged in
35 connection with an impediment 30, 30', which valve when opened allows the entry
   of replacement air into the channel part from the point of the impediment, or from
   the vicinity of it.

                                              28
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises a discharge valve 6, which
   is arranged between the input aperture 2 of the input point and the channel section
   functioning as an intermediate container.
 5
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises a discharge valve 50,
   which is arranged between the impediment 30 and the conveying pipe 100.
   According to one embodiment the apparatus comprises a shut-off means 6', which
10 is arranged between the feed-in container 10 of an input point 1 and the feed
   aperture 2 of the input point.
   According to one embodiment a replacement air valve 60 is arranged in an input
   point 1 for opening and closing the pathway 63 of the replacement air into the
15 feed-in container 10 and/or into the channel section 20, 21, 22 functioning as an
   intermediate container.
   According to one embodiment the flow aperture of the pathway 63 for replacement
   air is smaller than the flow cross-sectional area of the channel part from which the
20 suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic material conveying
   system acts.
   According to one embodiment the channel section 20, 21, 22 functioning as an
   intermediate container is arranged to be installed to a depth that is approx. 1 - 1.5
25 meters from the surface s of the ground.
   According to one embodiment the impediment is a separate impeding means 30,
   30', which can be moved between at least two positions, a first position, in which
   the impeding means 30, 30' extends into the channel space of the channel
30 section, and a second position, in which the impeding means does not essentially
   extend into the channel space of the channel section, and through or past which
   impediment a replacement air flow is adapted to travel.
   According to one embodiment the size of the flow aperture 33 of the replacement
35 air is adapted to increase when displacing the impeding means 30 from the first
   position into the second position.

                                              29
   According to one embodiment the replacement air is adapted to be conducted into
   the channel space 10 from the moving device 34, 35 side of the impeding means
   30.
 5 According to one embodiment the valve means 31 is arranged between an
   impeding means 30 and its moving device 34, 35.
   According to one embodiment the valve means 31 is a support member of the
   impeding means 30, when the impeding means 30 is in the first position. The valve
10 means 31 rests on the edges of the aperture of the wall of the channel, keeping
   the impeding means 31 firmly in place in the first position.
   According to one embodiment the impediment is a material handling device, such
   as shaper of the material, e.g. a rotary shaper, the handling means of which are
15 adapted to be in an operating state wherein they do not feed material from the
   channel section 22 towards the conveying pipe 100 when the shaper of the
   material is used as an impediment.
   Typically the material is waste material, such as waste material arranged in bags.
20 An input point and an intermediate container can be configured to be a part of a
   pneumatic waste conveying system or it can be a separate part, in which waste
   material is conducted into a waste room, waste container or corresponding.
   The disclosure can be applied in such a way that after an input point a channel
25 part is made that has a vertical section and a horizontal section, in which the
   waste is first dropped into the short vertical section and then the waste is sucked
   with rather short intermediated suction against an impediment, i.e. a stopper, that
   is in the horizontal channel section. In this case the waste is displaced into the
   intermediate container to the horizontal section and at the same time is
30 compressed in size by 30 - 50%. More space is obtained in the intermediate
   container with the solution. The impediment can be disposed a number of meters
   from the input hatch, in which case the desired amount of intermediate container
   volume is obtained. The idea is that the stopper limits the passage of waste into
   the piping and the input of replacement air is prevented, e.g. with an input point
35 discharge valve according to Fig. 1, i.e. with an input shut-off hatch, in which case
   conveying force for the waste is not created. When it is desired to compress and
   convey the waste, preferably a separate replacement air valve 60 is opened for a

                                               30
   while, e.g. for 2-10s. When it is desired to empty the channel section functioning
   as an intermediate container, the discharge valve 6, 50 or the shut-off means 6' is
   opened and the impeding means 30 is withdrawn. Alternatively, in a situation in
   which a separate replacement air valve 60 is not used or is not applied, in the
 5 compression phase the shut-off means 6' or the input point discharge valve 6, 50
   is opened for a while and when it is desired to empty the channel section
   functioning as an intermediate container, the discharge valve 6, 50 or the shut-off
   means 6' is opened and the impeding means is withdrawn.
10 A second alternative is to dispose the shut-off valve 50 in the installation trench 18
   on the output side of the impeding means 30. When it is desired to displace the
   waste material, the shut-off valve 50 is closed for a while.
   An additional replacement air valve 31 is installed in connection with the impeding
15 means 30 in such a way that when the impeding means is displaced into the
   second position, i.e. out of the channel part, it simultaneously opens the additional
   replacement air valve 31. In this case the waste material displaces more easily in
   the channel part because replacement air also comes into the body of waste.
   Generally the amount of waste to be conveyed is e.g. 150 L without an additional
20 replacement air valve 31 and/or without a formatter. By means of the impediment
   and the additional replacement air valve the amount of material to be displaced at
   one time can be many times more than this.
   Also in systems having a material shaper, a rotary shaper, i.e. a formatter, waste
25 can be precompressed by opening the main valve for a while, but when the
   handling means of the formatter are arranged into an operating state in which they
   do not rotate, i.e. do not feed in material, the waste does not come out but instead
   compresses in size by 30-50% in the intermediate container. The small amount of
   waste that has possibly passed through the formatter in the compression phase
30 during the precompression cycle is finally conveyed e.g. into the body of mixed
   waste. If necessary, an impeding means can be arranged before the formatter in
   the direction of travel of the material, which impeding means closes the channel
   even though the main valve, i.e. the discharge valve, is open.
35 The method according to the disclosure can also be utilized in a waste conveying
   system in such a way that a dedicated cycle is arranged for
   precompression/conveying. In this case the wastes of each input point, which are

                                               31
   conducted into a channel part functioning as an intermediate container, are
   precompressed in turn, e.g. for 10s. In this case the waste volume of the
   intermediate containers increases by 30-50%.
 5 The compression phase can be arranged in such a way that precompression of
   the input point in question or of the input points of a waste fraction is performed
   during the conveying of some other input point or waste fraction.
   It is obvious to the person skilled in the art that the disclosure is not limited to the
10 embodiments presented above, but that it can be varied within the scope of the
   claims presented below. The characteristic features possibly presented in the
   description in conjunction with other characteristic features can if necessary be
   used separately to each other.
15 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
20 embodiments of the invention.

                                               32
   Claims
   1. Method for feeding in and for handling waste material in a channel section of a
   pneumatic material wastes conveying system, in which method waste material or
 5 recyclable material is fed into a feed-in container from an input aperture of an input
   point of a pneumatic pipe transport system for material and onwards into the
   channel section between the feed-in container and a material conveying pipe, from
   where the material is conveyed along with the transporting air via the material
   conveying pipe to a delivery end of the pneumatic material wastes conveying
10 system, where the material is separated from the transporting air, wherein in the
   method the material is acted upon by the combined effect of suction and
   replacement air in the channel section achieving compression in at least a part of
   the material being conveyed, by means of replacement air means conducting
   replacement air in a regulated manner into the channel section between the input
15 point and the material, which replacement air means are adapted to open and
   close a pathway for replacement air, and by means of against an impediment
   arranged between the conveying pipe and the material to be handled, before
   transportation of the material to the delivery end of the pneumatic material wastes
   conveying system, wherein the impediment is adapted to stop at least most of the
20 material and to let an air flow past or through in such a way that in the channel
   section, by means of the waste material coming against the impediment thereby
   preventing movement of at least most of the material past the impediment towards
   the material conveying pipe, and by replacement air means, compression of at
   least a part of the material intended for conveying can be achieved by the
25 combined effect of suction and the replacement air.
   2. Method according to claim 1, wherein in the method at least a part of the
   material fed into the channel section intended to function as an intermediate
   container is acted upon, by opening a pathway from the direction of the conveying
30 pipe into the channel section intended to function as the intermediate container to
   a suction side of the pneumatic partial-vacuum generator, and by opening a
   pathway from the opposite side of the material for the replacement air pathway.
   3. Method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the material is acted
35 upon in the channel section of the intermediate container arranged between an
   input point and the material conveying pipe, and wherein the channel section is at

                                               33
   least partly arranged to travel in a direction essentially deviating from the vertical,
   preferably to travel in an essentially horizontal direction.
   4. Method according to claim 3, wherein material is fed from the input point into the
 5 channel section, and the material is acted upon in the intermediate container in
   phases, in which case in a first phase material is fed from the input aperture of the
   input point into the channel section mainly by means of gravity, in a second phase
   material is conveyed in the channel section against the impediment and is
   compressed by the combined effect of suction and replacement air, in a third
10 phase possibly more material is fed in from the input aperture of the input point by
   gravity into the channel part, and in a fourth phase the impediment is acted upon
   such that the material in the intermediate container and/or the compressed
   material is conveyed by the combined effect of the suction and replacement air
   from the channel section into the conveying piping, and onwards towards the
15 material delivery end of the pneumatic material conveying system.
   5. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein when
   compressing material, the entry of replacement air is allowed by opening a valve
   or a separate replacement air valve for a certain time.
20
   6. Method according to claim 5, wherein at least when compressing the material
   and/or at least in the first phase the pathway of the replacement air is opened, the
   flow aperture of which pathway is smaller than the flow cross-sectional area of the
   channel part from which the suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the
25 pneumatic material conveying system acts.
   7. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein between the input point
   and the material conveying pipe are a number of impediments, including the
   impediment which forms part of the number of impediments, that are at a distance
30 from each other in the material conveying direction, in which case at first the
   material is fed to a second impediment that is farther from the input point and
   compression of the waste is achieved by means of the second impediment, or
   against the second impediment, and after that a first impediment that is nearer the
   input point is placed to extend into the channel section of the intermediate
35 container and compression of the waste is achieved by means of the first
   impediment that is nearer the input point, or against said impediment.

                                              34
   8. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein replacement air is
   brought into the vicinity of the impediment when material is conveyed from the
   point of the impediment towards the conveying pipe.
 5 9. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the material is
   compressed in size by 30 - 50%.
   10. Method according to claim 5, wherein the replacement air valve is arranged in
   connection with the impediment, which valve means allows the entry of
10 replacement air into the channel part, at least when the impediment is arranged
   into a position in which material is conveyed towards the conveying pipe.
   11. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the channel section is
   arranged to be installed to a depth that is approx. 1 - 1.5 meters from the surface
15 of the ground.
   12. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the impediment can be
   moved between at least two positions, a first position, in which the impeding
   means extends into the channel space of the channel section, and a second
20 position, in which the impeding means does not essentially extend into the channel
   space of the channel section, and through or past which impediment the
   replacement air flow passes, or that the impediment is a material handling device
   in the form of a shaper of the material, a handling means of which are adapted to
   be in an operating state wherein they do not feed material from the channel
25 section towards the conveying pipe when the shaper of the material is used as the
   impediment.
   13. Method according to claim 12, wherein the shaper of the material includes a
   rotary shaper.
30
   14. Apparatus for feeding in and for handling waste material in the channel section
   of a pneumatic wastes conveying system, which apparatus comprises an input
   point of a pneumatic pipe transport system for material, which input point
   comprises an input aperture into a feed-in container and onwards into the channel
35 section arranged between the feed-in container and a material conveying pipe,
   which channel section is adapted to function as an intermediate container, from
   where the material is adapted to be conveyed via the material conveying pipe to

                                               35
   the delivery end of the pneumatic wastes conveying system where the material is
   separated from the transporting air, which apparatus comprises a partial-vacuum
   generator, the suction side of which can be connected to act in the conveying pipe,
   wherein the apparatus comprises means for achieving compression in the channel
 5 section to at least a part of the material, which means for achieving compression
   comprise at least one impediment, which can be arranged in the channel section
   between the input point and the conveying pipe, which the at least one impediment
   is adapted to stop at least most of the material and to let an air flow past or
   through in such a way that in the channel section, by means of the waste material
10 coming against the impediment thereby preventing movement of at least most of
   the material past the impediment towards the material conveying pipe, and
   replacement air means so that compression of at least a part of the material
   intended for conveying can be achieved by the combined effect of suction and the
   replacement air for at least a part of the material that is intended for conveying, the
15 replacement air means being for conducting replacement air in a regulated
   manner into the channel section between the input point and the material, which
   replacement air means are adapted to open and close a pathway for replacement
   air.
20 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the apparatus comprises means for
   opening and closing the connection to the suction side of the pneumatic partial
   vacuum generator of the channel section and/or the replacement air means, for
   conducting replacement air in a regulated manner into the channel section
   between an input point and the material, which means are adapted to open and
25 close a pathway for replacement air.
   16. Apparatus according to either claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the channel
   section arranged between the input point and the material conveying pipe, which
   the channel section comprises a channel section deviating from the vertical
30 direction, such as a mainly horizontal channel section, which is adapted to function
   as an intermediate container.
   17. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the volume of the intermediate
   container is determined by the distance of the impediment from the input point.
35
   18. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein a number of
   impediments, including the at least one impediment, are a distance from each

                                              36
   other in the material conveying direction are arranged between the input point and
   the material conveying pipe.
   19. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the apparatus
 5 comprises means for bringing replacement air into the vicinity of the impediment.
   20. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein a replacement air
   valve is arranged in connection with the impediment, which valve when opened
   allows the entry of replacement air into the channel part from the point of the
10 impediment, or from the vicinity of it.
   21. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein the apparatus
   comprises a discharge valve, which is arranged between the input aperture of the
   input point and the channel section functioning as an intermediate container.
15
   22. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 21, wherein the apparatus
   comprises a discharge valve, which is arranged between the impediment and the
   conveying pipe.
20 23. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 22, wherein the apparatus
   comprises a shut-off means for opening and closing a pathway from the input
   aperture to the feed-in container, which is arranged between the feed-in container
   of the input point and the input aperture of the input point.
25 24. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 23, wherein a replacement air
   valve is arranged in the input point for opening and closing the pathway of the
   replacement air into the feed-in container and/or into the channel section
   functioning as an intermediate container.
30 25. Apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the flow aperture of the pathway for
   replacement air is smaller than the flow cross-sectional area of the channel part
   from which the suction of the partial-vacuum generator of the pneumatic material
   conveying system acts.
35 26. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 25, wherein the channel
   section functioning as an intermediate container is arranged to be installed to a
   depth that is approx. 1 - 1.5 meters from the surface of the ground.

                                                37
   27. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 26, wherein the impediment
   can be moved between at least two positions, a first position, in which the
   impeding means extends into the channel space of the channel section, and a
 5 second position, in which the impeding means does not essentially extend into the
   channel space of the channel section, and through or past which impediment the
   replacement air flow may to travel.
   28. Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein the size of the flow aperture of the
10 replacement air is adapted to increase when displacing the impeding means from
   the first position into the second position.
   29. Apparatus according to either claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the replacement
   air is adapted to be conducted into the channel section from a moving device side
15 of the impediment.
   30. Apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 29, wherein the impediment is
   a material handling device is in the form of a shaper of the material, a handling
   means of which are adapted to be in an operating state wherein they do not feed
20 material from the channel section towards the conveying pipe when the shaper of
   the material is used as an impediment.
   31. Apparatus according to claim 30, wherein the shaper of the material includes a
   rotary shaper.
25
   32. Wastes conveying system, wherein it comprises an apparatus according to
   any of claims 14 to 31.
30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
