Abstract
The present utility model discloses a solar lamp, comprising a main frame (1), a solar
panel (2), an LED light panel (3), a sensor switch (4) and a mounting base (5). The solar
panel (2) is fixed to the main frame (1). The LED light panel (3) is movably connected to
the main frame (1), and forms an included angle of 0-100 degrees with respect to a plane
where the main frame is located. The sensor switch (4) is mounted on a bottom face of
the main frame (1), and is opposite the ground. The mounting base (5) is connected to the
main frame (1), and is provided with an adapter (51). The lamp senses presence and
absence of a user via the sensor switch (4) so as to switch on or off lights, thereby
realizing effects of power saving and automatic switch-on and switch-off; and the
illumination direction of the LED light panel (3) is adjustable.
FIG. 1

51
     4        0
              F.
       Fig. 2
   2
       Fig. 2

                                                  -1
                                           SOLAR LAMP
Technical Field
[0001]    The present utility model relates to the field of lamp structures, and specifically to a
solar lamp.
Background Art
[0002]    Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]    A solar lamp is an electric lamp using electric energy generated by a solar battery
panel converting solar energy into electricity. During the daytime, even on a cloudy day, the
solar panel can also collect and store solar energy. The solar lamp, as a new, safe and
environment-friendly lamp, has received more and more attention. Solar lamps on the market
are mounted mostly in a fixed manner, and thus are inconvenient to dismount when
replacement is needed. In terms of illumination, most of solar lamps on the market are of
permanent illumination, namely, using a button to realize switch-on and switch-off. If the solar
lamps are not switched off in time, permanent illumination is also a waste in terms of resource
costs.
Summary of the Invention
[0004]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0005]    Advantageously, the present invention provides a solar lamp, which senses
presence and absence of a user via a sensor switch so as to switch on or switch off lighting,
thereby realizing effects of power saving and automatic switch-on and switch-off, and wherein
an illumination direction of an LED light panel is adjustable.
[0006]    According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a solar lamp, comprising a
main frame, a solar panel, an LED light panel, a sensor switch and a mounting base, wherein
the solar panel is fixed to the main frame; the LED light panel is movably connected to the
main frame, and forms an included angle of between 0 degrees and 100 degrees with respect

                                                 -2
to a plane where the main frame is located; the sensor switch is mounted on a bottom face of
the main frame, and is opposite the ground; and the mounting base is connected to the main
frame, and is provided with an adapter.
[0007]     Preferably, two sides of the LED light panel are respectively connected to the main
frame in a pivotable manner.
[0008]     Preferably, light emitting beads of the LED light panel are arranged in a matrix form.
[0009]     Preferably, the sensor switch is a microwave sensing switch.
[0010]     Preferably, a sensing range of the microwave sensing switch covers an area within a
7-metre radius of the microwave sensing switch.
[0011]     Preferably, the mounting base is connected to a side edge of the main frame via
cooperation of bolts and nuts, with the bolts penetrating through the mounting base and the
main frame.
[0012]     Preferably, the mounting base is pivotally connected to the main frame, the adapter
comprises at least two pressing sheets, an adapter through-hole is surrounded and formed by
the at least two pressing sheets, and the diameter of the adapter through-hole increases as a
distance between the at least two pressing sheets increases.
[0013]     Preferably, the mounting base is fixedly connected to the main frame, and the
adapter is a sleeve.
[0014]     Preferably, an extension direction of the sleeve is parallel with the plane where the
main frame is located.
[0015]     Preferably, the mounting base is pivotally connected to the main frame, and the
adapter is a sleeve.
[0016]     In contrast to the prior art, the beneficial effects of the present utility model are as
follows:
           1) in the present utility model, presence and absence of a user is sensed via the
sensor switch so as to switch on or off lighting, thereby realizing effects of power saving and
automatic switch-on and switch-off;

                                                  -3
           2) in the present utility model, an illumination angle of the LED light panel is
adjustable, which is more flexible in use by adjusting an illumination direction according to
demands; and
           3) in the present utility model, the main frame is fixedly mounted in an illumination
area via the mounting base, facilitating flexible usage.
[0017]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0018]     Fig. 1 is a front structural schematic diagram of embodiment I of the present utility
model;
[0019]     Fig. 2 is a back structural schematic diagram of embodiment I of the present utility
model;
[0020]     Fig. 3 is a structural schematic diagram of embodiment II of the present utility model;
and
[0021]     Fig. 4 is a structural schematic diagram of embodiment III of the present utility
model.
[0022]     In the figures: main frame 1; solar panel 2; LED light panel 3; microwave sensing
switch 4; mounting base 5; adapter 51; pressing sheet 511; recessed portion 5111; adapter
through-hole 5112; pin 6; and nut 7.
Detailed Description of Embodiments
[0023]     Hereinafter, the utility model will be further described in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings and particular embodiments.

                                               -4
           Embodiment I:
[0024]     With reference to Figs. 1 and 2, a solar lamp comprises a main frame 1, a solar
panel 2, an LED light panel 3, a microwave sensing switch 4 and a mounting base 5. The solar
panel 2 is fixed to the main frame 1. Two sides of the LED light panel 3 are respectively
connected to the main frame 1 in a pivotable manner, and forms an included angle of 0-100
degrees with respect to a plane where the main frame 1 is located by means of active
adjustment. The microwave sensing switch 4 is mounted on a bottom face of the main frame 1,
and is opposite the ground. A sensing range of the microwave sensing switch 4 covers an area
within a 7-metre radius of the microwave sensing switch 4.
[0025]     The mounting base 5 is connected to a side edge of the main frame 1 via
cooperation of bolts 6 and nuts 7, with the bolts 6 penetrating through the mounting base 5 and
the main frame 1.
[0026]     The solar panel 2 is provided in a position exposed to the sun, including but not
limited to an upper surface of the main frame 1, and can also be fixedly connected to other
portions of the main frame 1 according to different usage scenes and illumination directions.
[0027]     Light emitting beads of the LED light panel 3 are arranged in a matrix form.
[0028]     An adapter 51 comprises two pressing sheets 511, wherein the two pressing sheets
511 are provided opposite each other, the pressing sheets 511 are provided with semicircular
recessed portions 5111, and the semicircular recessed portions 5111 are joined to each other,
such that an adapter through-hole 5112 is formed in the centre. As the distance between the
two opposing pressing sheets 511 is adjusted, the diameter of the adapter through-hole 5112
changes accordingly so as to adapt to different mounting positions. Connection means of the
two pressing sheets 511 include but are not limited to penetrating connection by using bolts or
pins.
[0029]     When in use, a fixing end, such as a support column or a lamp column, penetrates
through the adapter through-hole 5112, and then the two pressing sheets 511 are fastened
together so as to enable the pressing sheets 511 to clamp the fixing ends, thus realizing
mounting of the solar lamp. The main frame 1 rotates upwards and downwards relative to the
mounting base 5, such that the angle of the main frame 1 is adjustable so as to adapt
mounting positions. For example, if the mounting position is in a narrow space, the main frame

                                                  -5
1 may turn over upwards to a position where an included angle between the main frame and
the mounting base 5 is greater than 90 degrees so as to decrease an occupied space in a
horizontal direction, and then the LED light panel 3 is rotated so as to adjust the illumination
direction. Rotation of the main frame 1 relative to the mounting base 5 can also cooperate with
rotation of the LED light panel 3 so as to adjust the illumination direction. When a user walks
into the sensing range of the microwave sensing switch 4, the solar lamp is triggered and turns
on, thereby realizing illumination; and when the user leaves the sensing range, the solar lamp
turns off, thereby finishing the illumination.
            Embodiment II:
[0030]      With reference to Fig. 3, this embodiment is characterized in that the mounting base
5 is fixedly connected to the main frame 1; and the adapter 51 is a sleeve, wherein an
extension direction of the sleeve is parallel with the plane where the main frame 1 is located.
The remaining structures and features are the same as those in embodiment 1.
[0031]      In embodiment II, the sleeve is directly sleeved around fixing ends such as the
support column or lamp column so as to realize mounting in one step, facilitating quick and
convenient use.
            Embodiment III:
[0032]      With reference to Fig. 4, this embodiment is characterized in that the mounting base
5 is pivotally connected to the main frame 1 via the bolts 6, and the adapter 51 is a sleeve. The
remaining structures and features are the same as those in embodiment 1.
[0033]      In embodiment III, the sleeve is directly sleeved around fixing ends such as the
support column or lamp column so as to realize mounting in one step; and the angle of the
main frame 1 is adjusted via the rotation of the main frame 1 relative to the mounting base 5 so
as to adapt to the mounting and illumination positions.
[0034]      For a person skilled in the art, other various corresponding changes or variations can
be made according to the technical solutions and conception described above, and all of these
changes and variations should fall within the scope of protection of the claims of the present
utility model.

                                            -6
Claims
1.         A solar lamp, comprising a main frame, a solar panel, an LED light panel, a
sensor switch and a mounting base, wherein the solar panel is fixed to the main frame;
the LED light panel is movably connected to the main frame, and forms an included angle
of between 0 degrees and 100 degrees with respect to a plane where the main frame is
located; the sensor switch is mounted on a bottom face of the main frame, and is opposite
the ground; and the mounting base is connected to the main frame, and is provided with
an adapter.
2.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein two sides of the LED light panel
are respectively connected to the main frame in a pivotable manner.
3.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein light emitting beads of the LED
light panel are arranged in a matrix form.
4.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein the sensor switch is a microwave
sensing switch.
5.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein a sensing range of the microwave
sensing switch covers an area within a 7-metre radius of the microwave sensing switch.
6.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein the mounting base is connected to
a side edge of the main frame via cooperation of bolts and nuts, with the bolts penetrating
through the mounting base and the main frame.
7.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein the mounting base is pivotally
connected to the main frame, the adapter comprises at least two pressing sheets, an
adapter through-hole is surrounded and formed by the at least two pressing sheets, and
the diameter of the adapter through-hole increases as a distance between the at least two
pressing sheets increases.
8.         The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein the mounting base is fixedly
connected to the main frame, and the adapter is a sleeve.

                                            -7
9.        The solar lamp according to claim 8, wherein an extension direction of the
sleeve is parallel with the plane where the main frame is located.
10.          The solar lamp according to claim 1, wherein the mounting base is pivotally
connected to the main frame, and the adapter is a sleeve.

<removed-date>
              Drawings of the description
<removed-apn>
                        Fig. 1
                        Fig. 2
                           1

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2
    Fig. 4   Fig. 3

