Abstract
The present invention relates to fluorine substituted CBD compounds, compositions
thereof and uses thereof for the preparation of medicaments.

                                           -1
FLUORINATED CBD COMPOUNDS, COMPOSITIONS AND USES THEREOF
The present application is a divisional applaication of Austrlian Application No.
2014206036 dated 8 January 2014, which is the Australian national phase application of
PCT/IL2014/050023 and which his incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
         This application claims the benefit of US Application No 61/750,043, filed 8
January 2013, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
         The present    invention relates to fluorine     substituted CBD     compounds,
compositions thereof and uses thereof for the preparation of medicaments.
PRIOR ART
         References considered to be relevant as background to the presently disclosed
subject matter are listed below:
         References
         -      Campos AC, Guimaries FS. Involvement of 5HT1A receptors in the
anxiolytic-like effects of cannabidiol injected into the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray
of rats. Psychopharmacology (Burl). 199(2):223-30, 2008.
         -      File SE. Behavioural detection of anxiolytic action, in Experimental
approachesto anxiety and depression (Elliott JM, Heal DJ and Marsden CA eds) pp 25
44, Wiley, New York, 1992.
         -      Issy AC,     Salum  C,   Del Bel     EA. Nitric     oxide modulation   of
methylphenidate-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition in Swiss mice. Behav Brain
Res. 205(2):475-81, 2009.
         -      Long LE, Malone DT, Taylor DA. Cannabidiol Reverses MK-801
Induced Disruption of Prepulse Inhibition in Mice. Neuropsychopharmacology 31:795
803, 2006.
         -      Moreira FA, Guimaries FS. Cannabidiol inhibits the hyperlocomotion
induced by psychotomimetic drugs in mice. Eur J Pharmacol. 512(2-3):199-205, 2005.

                                              -2
        -         Onaivi ES, Green MR, Martin BR. Pharmacological characterization of
cannabinoids in the levated plus maze J Pharmacol Exp Ther 255:1002-9, 1990.
        -         Paxinos G. and Watson C. The rat brain in stereotaxic coordinates.
Academic Press, New York, 1997.
        -         Zanelati TV, Biojone C, Moreira FA, Guimaries FS,              Joca SR.
Antidepressant-like effects of cannabidiol in mice: possible involvement of 5-HT1A
receptors. Br J Pharmacol.159:122-8, 2010.
        Acknowledgement of the above references herein is not to be inferred as
meaning that these are in any way relevant to the patentability of the presently disclosed
subject matter.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
        The present invention provides a compound having the general formula (I):
                                       R1
                          R16                      R 15
                                                        R3
                                           R4                   R5
                                                        R14
                                               (I)
        wherein
          -      is a single or double bond;
        R, is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR 9 each optionally
substituted by at least one F;
        R 2 is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each optionally substituted by at least
one F;
        R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, -OR,(,     -C(=O)R,,, -OC(=O)R     2; provided that at least one of R 3 and R4 is
different than H;

                                                 -3
        R, is selected from a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl, a straight or branched C,
C9 alkoxy, a straight or branched C,-C, ether, each being optionally substituted by at
least one substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine,
halogen, phenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
        R8 , and R9 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, straight or branched C,-Csalkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
        R,0 is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
        R,, and R1 2 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, straight or branched C1 -C, alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
        R 13 , R 14 , Ri 5 and Ri6 are each optionally selected from H and F;
        provided that at least one of R1 3 , R1 4 , Ri5 and Ri 6 is F or at least one of R1
and R 2 is substituted with F.
        In another one of its aspects the invention provides a compound having the
general formula (II):
                                       R1
                           R16                     R15
                                                            R3
                                                                      R13
                           R17
                                                 R4                   R5
                                                            R14
                                                 (HI)
        wherein
          -        is a single or double bond;
        R, is selected from straight or branched C,-C alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C10
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR 9 each optionally
substituted by at least one F;
        R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, -OR,(,      -C(=O)R,,, -OC(=O)R       2; provided that at least one of R 3 and R 4 is
different than H;
        R, is selected from a straight or branched C 4 -C1 2 alkyl, a straight or branched C,-

                                                  -4
C9 alkoxy, a straight or branched C,-C, ether, each being optionally substituted by at
least one substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine,
halogen, phenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
        R,, and R9 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, straight or branched C,-Csalkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
        R,, is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
        R,, and R1 2 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, straight or branched C,-C, alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
        R 13 , R 1 4 , R15, R,6 and R17 are each optionally selected from H and F;
        provided that at least one of R,3 , R 14 , Ri5 and R,6 is F or R1 is substituted
with F.
        In another one of its aspects the invention provides a compound having the
general formula (III):
                                      R1
                                                        R3
                                                                 R13
                                        R2 R4
                                                                 R5
                                                        R14
                                                 (III)
        wherein
          -        is a single or double bond;
        R, is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR9 ;
        R 2 is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl;
        R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, -OR,(,       -C(=O)R,,, -OC(=O)R       2; provided that at least one of R 3 and R 4 is
different than H;
        R, is selected from a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl, a straight or branched C,
C9 alkoxy, a straight or branched C-C          7 ether, each being optionally substituted by at
least one substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine,

                                              -5
halogen, phenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
        R,, and R9 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C1 -C5
alkyl, straight or branched C1-C 5alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C1 -C5 amine;
        R,, is selected from H, a straight or branched C1 -C5 alkyl; and
        R,, and R1 2 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C1 -C5
alkyl, straight or branched CI-C 5 alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched CI-C 5 amine;
        R,3 and R14 are each optionally selected from H and F;
        provided that at least one of RB and R14 are F.
        In yet a further aspect the invention provides a compound of general formula
(IV)
                                       R1
                          R16                     R15
                                                       R3
                                             (IV)
        wherein
          -      is a single or double bond;
        R, is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR9 each optionally
substituted by at least one F;
        R 2 is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C1i
alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each optionally substituted by at least
one F;
        R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, straight or branched C1 -C5
alkyl, -OR,(, -C(=O)R,,, -OC(=O)R 2; provided that at least one of R 3 and R 4 is
different than H;
        R5  is selected from a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl, a straight or branched C5
C9 alkoxy, a straight or branched C,-C, ether, each being optionally substituted by at
least one substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3, straight or branched C1 -C5 amine,
halogen, phenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
        R,, and R9 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C1 -C5
alkyl, straight or branched C1-C 5alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C1 -C5 amine;

                                                -6
          R,, is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
          R,, and R1 2 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C,
alkyl, straight or branched C,-C, alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
          Ri5 and Ri6 are each optionally selected from H and F;
          provided that at least one of Ri5 and Ri6 is F or at least one of R1 and R 2 is
substituted with F.
          In some embodiments ------ is a double bond.
          In some other embodiments R, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; R 3 and R4 are
each independently -OR,,; R,0 is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl. .
          In further embodiments R, is straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, and R 3 and R4
are OH.
          In other embodiments, R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H,
OR,(, and -OC(=O)R        2; R,0 is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
R 1,2 is selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, -NH 3, straight or branched
C,-C, amine.
          In some embodiments, R, is a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl.
          In further embodiments of a compound of the invention at least one of R,3 ,
R 14, Ri 5 and Ri 6 is F.
          In other embodiments of a compound of the invention at least one of RB and
R14 is F.
          In further embodiments of a compound of the invention at least one of Ri5
and Ri 6 is F.
          In other embodiments of a compound of the invention at least one of R1 and
R2 is substituted with F.

                                                -7
        In yet further embodiments of a compound of the invention R1 is selected
from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkenyl, straight or
branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each being substituted by F.
        In further embodiments of a compound of the invention R 2 is selected from
straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkenyl, straight or
branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each substituted by F.
        In further embodiments a compound of the invention is of the general formula
(V):
                                     R1
                                                       R3
                                                                  F
                                                 (V)
        wherein R 1, R 2, R 3, R 4 and R5 are as defined therein.
        In other embodiments a compound of the invention is of the general formula
(VI):
                                     R1
                     R16                          R15
                                                              R3
                        F
                                                  R4                     R5
                                                (VI)
        wherein R 1, R 3, R 4, R5 , R15 and R 16 are as defined therein.

                                                -8
         The present invention provides a compound having the general formula (I):
                                         R1
                             R16                     R 15
                                                           R3
                                             R4                       R5
                                                           R14
                                                 (I)
         wherein
           -       is a double bond;
         R, is a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl optionally substituted by at least one F;
         R 2 is a straight or branched C 2-C 0 alkenyl optionally substituted by at least
one F;
         R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, -OR,(, -OC(=O)R          2 ; provided
that at least one of R 3 and R4 is different than H;
         R, is a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl optionally substituted by at least one
substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3 , straight or branched C,-C, amine, halogen,
phenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
         R,, is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
         R 1 2 is selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or
branched C,-C, alkoxy, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine;
         R 13 , R 14 , Ri5 and Ri6 are each optionally selected from H and F;
         provided that at least one of R, 3 , R 14 , Ri 5 and Ri6 is F or at least one of R1
and R 2 is substituted with F.
         The invention further provides a compound having the formula:

                                   -9
                                          OH
                                                     F
                                HO                   C5 H1 1 .
The invention further provides a compound having the formula:
                                           OC(=O)CH   3
                  F
                         H3C(O=)CO                     C5H11.

                                          - 10
        The invention further provides a compound having the formula:
                                                   OH
                                        HO                    C5 H1 1.
        The invention further provides a compound having the formula:
                                                    OC(=O)CH 3
                                                               F
                                 H3C(O=)CO                     C5H1.
        The term "straightor branched C,-C 8 alkyl" should be understood to encompass
a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 carbon atoms,
wherein all bonds are single bonds.
        The term "straight or branched C2 -CO alkenyl" should be understood to
encompass a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain having 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10
carbon atoms, having at least one double unsaturated bond between at least two carbon
atoms.
        The term "straight or branched C2 -CO alkynyl" should be understood to
encompass a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain having 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10
carbon atoms, having at least one triple unsaturated bond between at least two carbon
atoms.

                                            - 11
         The term "each optionally substituted by at least one F" should be understood to
relate to the option of having at least one fluor atom substituted on any of the
substituents such as R1 and/or R 2 at any position, replacing at least one hydrogen atom.
         The term "straight or branched C5 -C          alkoxy" should be understood to
encompass a radical of -OR wherein R is a straight or branched alkyl having 5, 6, 7, 8
or 9 carbon atoms.
         The term "straightor branched C,-C, ether" should be understood t encompass a
radical of -R'OR wherein R is a straight or branched alkyl having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7,
carbon atoms and R' is a straight or branched alkanyl having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, carbon
atoms.
         The term "straight or branched C,-C, amine" should be understood to
encompass a primary (-NH 2R), secondary (-NHRR') or tertiaty amine (-N*RR'R")
wherein R, R' and R" are each independently a straight or branched alkyl having 1, 2, 3,
4 or 5 carbon atoms.
         The term "halogen" should be understood to encompass any halogen atoms
including F, Cl, Br and I.
         The term "aryl" is meant to encompass an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic
groups containing from 6 to 19 carbon atoms. Aryl groups include, but are not limited to
groups such as unsubstituted or substituted fluorenyl, unsubstituted or substituted
phenyl, and unsubstituted or substituted naphthyl.
         The term "heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic or multicyclic aromatic ring
system, in certain embodiments, of about 5 to about 15 members wherein one or more,
in some embodiments between 1 to 3, of the atoms in the ring system is a heteroatom,
that is, an element other than carbon, including but not limited to, nitrogen, oxygen or
sulfur. The heteroaryl group may be optionally fused to a benzene ring. Heteroaryl
groups include, but are not limited to, furyl, imidazolyl, pyrimidinyl, tetrazolyl, thienyl,
pyridyl, pyrrolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, triazolyl, quinolinyl and
isoquinolinyl,

                                              - 12
         The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a monocyclic or multicyclic non-aromatic ring
system, in one embodiment of 3 to 10 members, in another embodiment of 4 to 7
members, in further embodiments between 5 to 6 member carbon atoms.
         The term "heterocycloalkyl" refers to a monocyclic or multicyclic non-aromatic
ring system, in one embodiment of 3 to 10 members, in another embodiment of 4 to 7
members, in a further embodiments between 5 to 6 members, wherein one or more, in
certain embodiments between 1 to 3, of the atoms in the ring system is a heteroatom,
that is, an element other than carbon, including but not limited to, nitrogen, oxygen or
sulfur. In embodiments where the heteroatom(s) is(are) nitrogen, the nitrogen is
optionally    substituted    with   alkyl,  alkenyl,    alkynyl,   aryl,   heteroaryl,  aralkyl,
heteroaralkyl,    cycloalkyl,    heterocyclyl,    cycloalkylalkyl,   heterocyclylalkyl,    acyl,
guanidine, or the nitrogen may be quaternary ammonium group where the substituents
are selected as above.
         When referring to a compound of the invention wherein at least one of R, 3 , R14 ,
R 15 and R16 is F or at least one of R, and R 2 is substituted with F, it should be understood
to encompass a compound of the invention wherein either at least one of R13 , R14, R15
and R 16 is F or at least one of R, and R 2 is a substituent as defined herein above wherein
at least one of its hydrogen atoms (at any location on the moiety) is substituted by an F
atom.
         In some other embodiments at least one of R13 , R14 , R15 and R16 is F and at least
one of R, and R 2 is substituted with F. Under this embodiment the invention
encompasses a compound wherein at least one of R13, R14, R15 and R 16 is F and at least
one of R, and R 2 is a substituent as defined herein above wherein at least one of its
hydrogen atoms (at any location on the moiety) is substituted by an F atom.
         In another one of its aspects the invention provides a composition comprising at
least one compound of the invention, as described herein above in all aspects and
embodiments of a compound of the invention.
         In some embodiments of a composition of the invention, said composition is a
pharmaceutical composition.

                                            - 13
         A pharmaceutical composition of the present invention have potent antioxidant
and/or free radical scavenging properties, that prevent or reduce oxidative damage in
biological systems, such as occurs in ischemic/reperfusion injury, or in chronic
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, HIV dementia, and many other
oxidation associated diseases.
         Thus, the invention provides a composition comprising a compound of the
invention (as defined in any aspect and embodiment of a compound of the invention)
being an antioxidant composition.
         As used herein, an "antioxidant" is a substance that, when present in a mixture
containing an oxidizable substrate biological molecule, significantly delays or prevents
oxidation of the substrate biological molecule. Antioxidants can act by scavenging
biologically important reactive free radicals or other reactive oxygen species (02^,
H2 0 2 ,.OH, HOCl, ferryl, peroxyl, peroxynitrite, and alkoxyl), or by preventing their
formation, or by catalytically converting the free radical or other reactive oxygen
species to a less reactive species.
         Relative antioxidant activity can be measured by cyclic voltametry studies,
where the voltage (x-axis) is an index of relative antioxidant activity. The voltage at
which the first peak occurs is an indication of the voltage at which an electron is
donated, which in turn is an index of antioxidant activity.
          "Therapeutically effective antioxidant doses" can be determined by various
methods, including generating an empirical dose-response curve, predicting potency and
efficacy of a congener by using quantitative structure activity relationships (QSAR)
methods or molecular modeling, and other methods used in the pharmaceutical sciences.
Since oxidative damage is generally cumulative, there is no minimum threshold level
(or dose) with respect to efficacy. However, minimum doses for producing a detectable
therapeutic or prophylactic effect for particular disease states can be established.
         The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising at
least one compound of the subject invention in admixture with pharmaceutically

                                            -14
acceptable auxiliaries, and optionally other therapeutic agents. The auxiliaries are
"acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the
composition and not deleterious to the recipients thereof.
         Pharmaceutical compositions include those suitable for oral, rectal, nasal, topical
(including transdermal, buccal and sublingual), vaginal or parenteral (including
subcutaneous,     intramuscular,    intravenous   and   intradermal)   administration     or
administration via an implant. The compositions may be prepared by any method well
known in the art of pharmacy.
         Such methods include the step of bringing in association compounds used in the
invention or combinations thereof with any auxiliary agent. The auxiliary agent(s), also
named accessory ingredient(s), include those conventional in the art, such as carriers,
fillers, binders, diluents, disintegrants, lubricants, colorants, flavouring agents, anti
oxidants, and wetting agents.
         Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral administration may be presented
as discrete dosage units such as pills, tablets, drag6es or capsules, or as a powder or
granules, or as a solution or suspension. The active ingredient may also be presented as
a bolus or paste. The compositions can further be processed into a suppository or enema
for rectal administration.
         The invention further includes a pharmaceutical composition, as hereinbefore
described, in combination with packaging material, including instructions for the use of
the composition for a use as hereinbefore described.
         For parenteral administration, suitable compositions include aqueous and non
aqueous sterile injection. The compositions may be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose
containers, for example sealed vials and ampoules, and may be stored in a freeze-dried
lyophilisedd) condition requiring only the addition of sterile liquid carrier, for example
water, prior to use. For transdermal administration, e.g. gels, patches or sprays can be
contemplated. Compositions or formulations suitable for pulmonary administration e.g.

                                              - 15
by nasal inhalation include fine dusts or mists which may be generated by means of
metered dose pressurized aerosols, nebulisers or insufflators.
        The exact dose and regimen of administration of the composition will
necessarily be dependent upon the therapeutic or nutritional effect to be achieved and
may vary with the particular formula, the route of administration, and the age and
condition of the individual subject to whom the composition is to be administered.
        In another one of its aspects that invention provides a compound of the
invention, as described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of
the invention, for use in the treatment of at least one condition, disease or disorder
selected from the group consisting of:
            -  psychiatric disorders (none limiting examples include : anxiety and
               stress, depression,     schizophrenia,     panic, withdrawal     symptoms   in
               cannabis and tobacco addiction, reward-facilitating effect of morphine
               and cocaine, lowers cannabis and THC effects such as memory loss,
               psychotic-like symptoms);
            -  inflammation     (none     limiting    examples    include:   Crohn's disease,
               inflammatory bowel         disease, colitis, pancreatitis,    asthma, chronic
               inflammatory and neuropathic pain);
            -  oxidative associated diseases, conditions or disorders (pathological
               conditions that result at least in part from the production of or exposure
               to free radicals, particularly oxyradicals, or reactive oxygen species. It is
               evident to those of skill in the art that most pathological conditions are
               multi-factorial, and that assigning or identifying the predominant causal
               factors for any particular condition is frequently difficult. For these
               reasons,   the term      "free    radical  associated   disease"  encompasses
               pathological states that are recognized as conditions in which free
               radicals or reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to the pathology of
               the disease, or wherein administration of a free radical inhibitor (e.g.
               desferroxamine), scavenger (e.g. tocopherol, glutathione) or catalyst (e.g.
               superoxide dismutase, catalase) is shown to produce detectable benefit
               by decreasing      symptoms,       increasing survival, or providing other

                              -16
detectable clinical benefits in treating or preventing the pathological
state. Oxidative associated diseases include, without limitation, free
radical associated diseases, such as ischemia, ischemic reperfusion
injury, inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial
ischemia     or   infarction,    cerebrovascular accidents  (such   as  a
thromboembolic or hemorrhagic stroke) that can lead to ischemia or an
infarct in the brain, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage (for
example a hypovolemic stroke that can lead to CNS hypoxia or anoxia),
spinal cord trauma, Down's syndrome, Crohn's disease, autoimmune
diseases (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis or diabetes), cataract formation,
uveitis, emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity, neoplasia, undesired
cellular apoptosis, radiation sickness, and others. The present invention
is further directed to a compound or composition of the invention used in
the treatment of oxidative associated diseases of the CNS. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is
used for preventing, arresting, or treating neurological damage in
Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia; autoimmune
neurodegeneration of the type that can occur in encephalitis, and hypoxic
or anoxic neuronal damage that can result from apnea, respiratory arrest
or cardiac arrest, and anoxia caused by drowning, brain surgery or
trauma (such as concussion or spinal cord shock)).
rheumatoid arthritis;
cardiovascular diseases (none limiting examples include: reduces infarct
size and increase blood flow in stroke; reduces vasoconstriction; lowers
vascular damage caused by a high glucose environment; reduces the
vascular hyperpermeability);
obesity (none limiting examples include: food consumption; lowering
appetite); metabolic syndrome);
diabetes and associated disorders and symptoms (none limiting examples
include: type 1 and type 2, cardiomyopathy and retinopathy associated
with diabetes);
emesis and nausea;
ischemic/reperfusion injury associated with myocardial;

                                             - 17
            -   liver or renal diseases;
            -   hypoxia/ischemia injury;
            -   neuronal damage due to neurological diseases or injury (none limiting
                examples include: Parkinson's disease; Huntington's disease; Alzheimer's
                disease; cerebral infarction; hepatic encephalopathy; traumatic brain
                injury; cerebral ischemia; spinal cord injury; memory rescuing effects);
            -   cancer and resistance to cancer chemotherapy (none limiting examples
                include: cancer cell migration (metastasis); inhibits angiogenesis);
            -   epilepsy and convulsions;
                and any condition or symptom associated therefrom.
        In further embodiments, said condition, disease, disorder or symptom associated
with inflammation        is selected     from rheumatoid    arthritis, multiple   sclerosis,
inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes and any combinations thereof.
        In yet other embodiments, said disease is a psychiatric disease condition or
disorder or any symptom associated therewith.
        In other embodiments, said psychiatric disease condition or disorder or any
symptom      associated    therewith   is   selected from    anxiety,  stress,  depression,
schizophrenia, panic, substance abuse withdrawal symptoms, reward-facilitating effect
of addictive substances, memory loss, psychotic-like symptoms associated with the use
of substance abuse.
        In another one of its aspects the invention provides a compound of the invention,
as described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention, for use in reduction of oxidative stress.
        When referring to "reduction of oxidative stress" it should be understood to
encompass any qualitative or quantitative reduction in the oxidative stress in a body
tissue or cell of a subject treated with a compound or composition of the invention.
Oxidative stress is characterized by an imbalance between the systemic manifestation of
reactive oxygen species and a biological system's ability to readily detoxify the reactive

                                           - 18
intermediates or to repair the resulting damage. Disturbances in the normal redox state
of cells can cause toxic effects through the production of peroxides and free radicals
that damage all components of the cell, including proteins, lipids, and DNA. Further,
some reactive oxidative species act as cellular messengers in redox signaling. Thus,
oxidative stress can cause disruptions in normal mechanisms of cellular signaling.
        Non limiting list of diseases, conditions or disorders associated with oxidative
stress in a cell or tissue of a subject include: cancer, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's
disease, atherosclerosis, heart failure, myocardial infarction, Schizophrenia, Bipolar
disorder, fragile X syndrome, Sickle Cell Disease, lichen planus, vitiligo, autism, and
chronic fatigue syndrome.
        In a further aspect the invention provides a compound of the invention, as
described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of the invention,
for use in the treatment of any disease, condition or disorder caused by or associated
with oxidative stress.
        Oxidative associated diseases include, without limitation, free radical associated
diseases, such as ischemia, ischemic reperfusion injury, inflammatory diseases,
systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial ischemia or infarction, cerebrovascular
accidents (such as a thromboembolic or hemorrhagic stroke) that can lead to ischemia or
an infarct in the brain, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage (for example a
hypovolemic stroke that can lead to CNS hypoxia or anoxia), spinal cord trauma,
Down's syndrome, Crohn's disease, autoimmune diseases (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis or
diabetes), cataract formation, uveitis, emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity,
neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation sickness, and others. The present
invention is believed to be particularly beneficial in the treatment of oxidative
associated diseases of the CNS, because of the ability of the cannabinoids to cross the
blood brain barrier and exert their antioxidant effects in the brain. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition or compound of the present invention is
used for preventing, arresting, or treating neurological damage in Parkinson's disease,
Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia; autoimmune neurodegeneration of the type that
can occur in encephalitis, and hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage that can result from

                                            - 19
apnea, respiratory arrest or cardiac arrest, and anoxia caused by drowning, brain surgery
or trauma (such as concussion or spinal cord shock).
        In some embodiments, said disease, condition or disorder caused or associated
with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of cancer, oxidative
neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia, ischemic reperfusion
injury, inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial ischemia or
infarction, cerebrovascular accidents, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage, spinal
cord trauma, Down's syndrome, Crohn's disease, autoimmune diseases, cataract
formation, uveitis, emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity, neoplasia, undesired
cellular apoptosis, radiation sickness, and any combinations thereof.
        In a further aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in all aspects
and embodiments of a compound of the invention, for use in the treatment of oxidative
associated diseases, disorder or condition of the CNS.
        In another aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in all aspects
and embodiments of a compound of the invention, for use in preventing, arresting, or
treating neurological damage in a subject suffering from at least one disease, disorder or
condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia;
autoimmune neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage, respiratory arrest
or cardiac arrest, anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma.
        In a further aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in all aspects
and embodiments of a compound of the invention, for use in the treatment of an
ischemic or neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous.
        In some embodiments of a compound for use above, said ischemic or
neurodegenerative disease is selected from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct,
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia,
Down's syndrome, and heart disease or any combinations thereof.

                                           -20
        In a further aspect the invention encompasses a use of a compound of the
invention, as described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of
the invention, for the manufacture of a medicament (or a pharmaceutical composition).
        The invention further provides a use of a compound of the invention, as
described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of the invention,
for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of at least one condition, disease
or disorder selected from the group consisting of psychiatric disorders, inflammation,
oxidation associated conditions, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, obesity,
diabetes    and    associated    disorders   and     symptoms,    emesis   and   nausea,
ischemic/reperfusion injury associated with myocardial, liver or renal diseases,
hypoxia/ischemia injury, neuronal damage due to neurological diseases or injury, cancer
and resistance to cancer chemotherapy, epilepsy and convulsions, and any condition or
symptom associated therefrom.
        In another aspect the invention provides a use of a compound of the invention, as
described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of the invention,
for the manufacture of a medicament for reduction of oxidative stress.
        In yet another aspect the invention provides a use of a compound of the
invention, as described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of
the invention, for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of any disease,
condition or disorder caused by or associated with oxidative stress.
        In some embodiments of a use above, said disease, condition or disorder caused
or associated with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of cancer,
oxidative neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia, ischemic
reperfusion injury, inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial
ischemia or infarction, cerebrovascular        accidents, operative  ischemia, traumatic
hemorrhage, spinal cord trauma, Down's syndrome, Crohn's disease, autoimmune
diseases, cataract formation, uveitis, emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity,
neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation sickness, and any combinations
thereof.

                                           - 21
        In a further aspect the invention provides a use of a compound according to the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention), for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of oxidative
associated disease, disorder or condition of the CNS.
        In another aspect the invention provides a use of a compound according to the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention), for the manufacture of a medicament for preventing, arresting, or treating
neurological damage in a subject suffering from at least one disease, disorder or
condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia;
autoimmune neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage, respiratory arrest
or cardiac arrest, anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma and any
combinations thereof.
        In a further aspect the invention provides a use of a compound according to the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention), for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of an ischemic or
neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous.
        In some embodiments of a use above, said ischemic or neurodegenerative
disease is selected from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct, Alzheimer's
disease, Parkinson's disease, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia, Down's
syndrome, and heart disease or any combinations thereof.
        The invention also provides a method of treating a condition, disease, disorder or
symptom associated with inflammation in a subject in need thereof, said method
comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of at least one compound
of the invention, as described herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a
compound of the invention.
        The invention further encompasses a method of reduction of oxidative stress in a
tissue or an organ of a subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to

                                            - 22
said subject an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention, as described
herein above in all aspects and embodiments of a compound of the invention.
        According to a further aspect the invention provides a method of treating any
disease, condition or disorder caused by or associated with oxidative stress a subject in
need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject an effective amount
of at least one compound of the invention, as described herein above in all aspects and
embodiments of a compound of the invention.
        In some embodiments of a method above, said disease, condition or disorder
caused by or associated with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of
cancer, oxidative neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia,
ischemic reperfusion injury, inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis,
myocardial ischemia or infarction, cerebrovascular accidents, operative ischemia,
traumatic hemorrhage,       spinal cord trauma, Down's syndrome,          Crohn's disease,
autoimmune diseases, cataract formation, uveitis, emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen
toxicity, neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation sickness, and others.
        In a further aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of oxidative
associated disease, disorder or condition of the CNS in a subject, comprising
administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention).
        In another aspect the invention provides a method for preventing, arresting, or
treating neurological damage in a subject suffering from at least one disease, disorder or
condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia;
autoimmune neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage, respiratory arrest
or cardiac arrest, anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma, comprising
administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention).

                                           - 23
        In a further aspect the invention provides a method of treating an ischemic or
neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous system of a subject, comprising
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the
invention (as defined in any of the aspects and embodiments of a compound of the
invention).
        In some embodiments of a method above, said ischemic or neurodegenerative
disease is selected from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct, Alzheimer's
disease, Parkinson's disease, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia, Down's
syndrome, and heart disease or any combinations thereof.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        In order to better understand the subject matter that is disclosed herein and to
exemplify how it may be carried out in practice, embodiments will now be described,
by way of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
which:
        Fig. 1 shows the effects of HU-475 (a compound of the invention 1, 3 and 10
nmol, n=8-9 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) microinjected into the dorsolateral
periaqueductal gray of rats submitted to the elevated plus maze. Data expressed as
means ± SEM of the percentage of entries onto the open arms. * indicates significant
difference from vehicle (p<0.05).
        Fig. 2 shows the effects of HU-475 (a compound of the invention 1, 3 and 10
nmol, n=8-9 animals /group) and entries onto vehicle (n=7) microinjected into the
dorsolateral periaqueductal gray of rats submitted to the elevated plus maze. Data
expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of time spent in the open arms. + indicates
a trend (p<O.1) for a difference from vehicle.
        Fig. 3 shows the effects of HU-474 (a compound of the invention 1, 3 and 10
mg/kg n=6-8 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice tested in the elevated plus
maze. Data expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of time in the open arms. *
indicates significant difference from vehicle.

                                                - 24
        Fig. 4 shows the effects of HU-474 (a compound of the invention 1, 3 and 10
mg/kg n=6-8 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice tested in the elevated plus
maze. Data expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of entries onto the open arms.
        Fig. 5 shows the effects of HU-474 (a compound of the invention 1, 3 and 10
mg/kg n=6-8 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice immobility time (s) showed by
mice tested in the FST. Data expressed as means ± SEM. * indicates significant
difference from vehicle.
        Fig. 6 shows the effects of HU-474 (3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) in mice on the
impairment of PPI induced by MK-801 (MO.5 mg/kg). Results are expressed as means ±
SEM. * indicates significant difference from vehicle-vehicle, # significant difference
from vehicle-MK group.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
        Example 1: Fluorination of cannabidiol (HU-474)
                             OH          1-fluoropyridinium           OH
                                        triflate                             F
                       HO         C5 H1 1                       HO        C5H11
                                                                HU-474
        To a solution of cannabidiol (942 mg, 3 mmol) in dry CH 2 Cl 2 (42 mL) was
added 1-fluoropyridinium triflate (742 mg, 3 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred
at ambient temperature overnight. After dilution with CH 2Cl 2 the mixture was washed
with saturated aqueous solution of NaHCO 3 . The organic layer was separated, dried
over MgSO 4 and evaporated. The oil obtained was chromatographed on a silica gel
column (75 g). Elution with 2 % ether in petroleum ether gave the compound 4'-fluoro
cannabidiol (HU-474) as a solid (300 mg, 27 %) m.p. 59-61       0 C. 'H NMR (300 MHz,
CDCl 3) 6 6.17 (1H, s, arom.) 5.52 (1H, s), 4.56 (1H, s), 4.44 (1H, s), 3.92 (1H, s), 2.50
(2H, b), 2.19-2.05 (2H, b), 1.77 (3H, s), 0.86 (3H, t). MS, m/e =  332 (Mc).

                                                - 25
        Example 2: Fluorination of cannabidiol diacetate (HU-475)
        Step A
                            O   COCH 3                                      COCH 3
                                              SeO 2
                                            t-BuOOH
                                     0O                                       C5H11
                         COCH 3                                     0
                                                                     COCH 3
                                                          10-hydroxy-cannabidiol diacetate
        To a suspension of SeO 2 (219 mg, 2 mmol) and t-BuOOH (2.8 mL, 70 % in
water) in CH 2Cl 2 (7 mL) was added a solution of cannabidiol diacetate (2 g, 5 mmol) in
CH 2Cl 2 (10 mL). After stirring the mixture at ambient temperature overnight, it was
washed with saturated aqueous solution of NaHCO 3 followed by a saturated solution of
NaHSO 3 . The organic layer was separated, dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and evaporated.
The oil obtained was purified on a silica gel column (50 g). Elution with 13 % ether in
petroleum ether gave the required compound 10-hydroxy-cannabidiol diacetate (670
mg, 40 %) as oil. 'H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ), 6 6.7 (2H, s), 5.17 (1H, s), 4.99, (1H, s),
4.87 (1H, s), 3.70-3.80 (2H m), 3.53-3.58 (1H, m), 2.52-2.57 (2H, t J       = 7.6 Hz), 2.39
2.48 (1H d J= 5.1 Hz), 2.18 (6H, s), 2.06 (1H, s), 2.0 (1H, s), 1.58 (1H, s), 1.25-1.31
(4H, m), 0.86-0.90 (3H t, J= 6.45 Hz).
        Step B
                                ,.ICOCH 3            D  T                      COCH 3
                                                    DAST0
                              CCOCH
                                           O                            CCOCH
                  HO   ~             C5H11FCH1
                          COCH3
                                                                        COCH3
                                                                       HU-475
        The alcohol (414 mg, 1 mmol) in dry CH 2 Cl 2 (4 mL) was added under N 2
atmosphere to an ice-cold solution of DAST (0.18 mL, 1.5 mmol). After 15 min. at 0 'C
solid Na 2 CO 3 (125 mg, 1 mmol) was added. The organic phase was then washed twice
with cold 1 M aqueous Na 2 CO 3 solution, followed by water. The organic layer was
separated, dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and evaporated. The resulting crude material was

                                           -  26
purified on a silica gel column (20 g) using 10 % ether in petroleum ether to provide
the fluorinated product 10-fluoro-cannabidiol diacetate (HU-475) (77.5 mg, 18.6 %). 'H
NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 6.74 (2H, s), 5.21 (1H, s), 5.01 (1H, s), 4.87 (1H, s), 4.60
(1H, s), 4.50 (1H, s), 3.6 (1H, b), 2.73 (1H, t), 2.57 (2H, t), 2.21 (6H, s), 2.08-1.59 (8H,
ms), 1.32 (3H, s), 0.90 (3H, t). MS, m/e  =  416 (M).
        Example 3: In vivo effect of HU-474 in mice and HU-475 in rats
        1. Animals
        Male Wistar rats (220-250g) and Swiss mice (25-30g) originated from the
Central Animal Farm of the School of Medicine of Ribeirio Preto (FMRP-USP) were
maintained in groups of five animals per box (41x33x17 cm) in a temperature controlled
room (24±2'C) with a 12x12 h light-dark cycle. They received water and food ad
libitum throughout the study period.
        2. Compositions
        HU-474 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally (IP) in mice at
10 mL/kg volume and HU-475 (1, 3 and 10 nmol) was injected intra-dlPAG in rats.
Both drugs were dissolved in 2% Tween 80 in sterile saline.
        3. Stereotaxic Surgery (HU-475)
        Rats were submitted to a stereotaxic surgery to unilaterally implant cannulae
(9.0 mm, 0.6mm OD) into the dlPAG (coordinates: lateral: -1.9 mm; depth: -4.3 mm;
angle: 160 from lambda; Paxinos and Watson, 2005), fixed to the skull with acrylic
cement (Campos & Guimaries, 2008). The surgeries were performed under anesthesia
with tribromoethanol 2.5% (10.0 mL/kg, IP) and immediately after the animals received
Veterinary Pentabiotic (0.2 mL, intramuscular) and analgesic (Banamine, 1.0 mL/kg,
subcutaneous) to prevent infections and decrease post-surgical pain. After surgery,
animals underwent a recovery period of 5-7 days before the behavioral tests.
        4. Microinjection (HU-475)
        Animals received unilateral microinjections of vehicle or HU-475 into the
dlPAG before being submitted to the behavioral tests. To this aim, microneedles (10.0
mm, 0.3 mm OD), connected to a microsyringe (Hamilton, USA, 10 mL) through a

                                            - 27
segment of polyethylene (P10) were inserted into the guide cannulae. Solutions were
injected with the help of an infusion pump (KD Scientific, USA). A 0.2 pL solution
volume was injected over 1 min. After the injections, the needles remained inserted in
the cannulae for additional 30 seconds to prevent drug reflux (Campos & Guimaries,
2008).
         5. Apparatus
         5.1 Elevatedplus-maze (EPM)Rats
         The wood EPM used to perform the experiments was located in a sound
attenuated and temperature controlled room (23'C), with one incandescent light (40 W)
placed 1.3 m away from the maze. The apparatus consists of two opposing open arms
(50 x 10 cm) without side walls, perpendicular to two enclosed arms (50 x 10 x 40 cm),
with a central platform common to all arms (10 x 10 cm). The apparatus is elevated 50
cm above the ground and has an acrylic edge (1 cm) in the open arms to prevent animal
falls. In this model, rodents naturally avoid the open arms, exploring more extensively
the enclosed arms. Anxiolytic drugs increase the exploration in open arms without
affecting the number of enclosed arms entries, which is usually used to assess general
exploratory activity (File, 1992).    Ten minutes after the last injection the animal was
placed on the central platform of the maze with the head facing one of the enclosed
arms. The test lasted for 5 min and was recorded. The animal behavior was analyzed
with the help of the Anymaze Software (version 4.5, Stoelting). This software indicates
the location of the animal in the EPM and automatically calculates the percentage of
entries (Peo) and time spent in the open arms (Pto) and the number of entries in the
enclosed arms (EA). Animals were only considered to enter an open or enclosed arm
when 90% of their bodies were inside the region. All experiments were performed in the
morning period (8 to 12 a.m.).
         5.2 Elevatedplus-maze (EPM)Mice
         Similar to 5.1 except that the each arm measured 30 x 5 cm.
         5.3 Forcedswimming test (FST) Mice
         Animals were individually submitted for 6 min of forced swimming in glass
cylinders (height 25 cm, diameter 17 cm) containing 10 cm of water. The mice were

                                           -28
videotaped and the immobility time (characterized by slow movements necessary to
avoid drowning) was measured during the last 4-min period. The water was changed
after each trial to maintain the temperature at 23-25 'C and to prevent the influence of
alarm substances (Zanelati et al., 2010).
        6. Histology- Rats
        After the behavioral tests animals were anesthetized with chloral hydrate 4% (10
mL/kg) and perfused with saline 0.9%. Brains were removed and kept in formalin
solution 10% for 3-7 days. Soon after, brains were cut into 50-pm thick sections in a
cryostat (Cryocut 1800). The injection sites were identified in diagrams from the
Paxinos and Watson's atlas (Paxinos and Watson, 2005). Rats receiving injections
outside the aimed area were included in a separate group (out group).
        7. StatisticalAnalysis
        Results from HU-475 and HU-474 tests in the elevated plus maze were analyzed
by Kruskal-Wallis followed by Mann-Whitney tests. Data from animals tested in the
FST were analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by Duncan test.
        Results.
        HU-475. The drug increased the percentage of entries (X 2 = 9.66, DF=4, p<0.05,
Figure 1) and tended to do the same (X 2 = 8.5, DF=4, p=0.075, Figure 2) with the
percentage of time spent into the open arms. No effect was found in the number of
enclosed arm entries.
        Fig. 1 shows the effects of HU-475 (1, 3 and 10 nmol, n=8-9 animals /group)
and vehicle (n=7) microinjected into the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray of rats
submitted to the elevated plus maze. Results from animals that received the dose of 3
nmol outside the target region are shown in the OUT group (n=6). Data expressed as
means ± SEM of the percentage of entries onto the open arms. * indicates significant
difference from vehicle(p<0.05). Fig. 2 shows the effects of HU-475 (1, 3 and 10 nmol,
n=8-9    animals    /group) and vehicle     (n=7) microinjected   into  the dorsolateral
periaqueductal gray of rats submitted to the elevated plus maze. Results from animals
that received the dose of 3 nmol outside the target region are shown in the OUT group.

                                            - 29
Data expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of time spent in the open arms. +
indicates a trend (p<O.1) for a difference from vehicle.
        HU-474. The drug increased the percentage of time spent in the open arms of
the pEPM (X 2 = 8.13, DF=3, p<0.05, Figure 3. No effect was found in the percentage of
entries onto these same arms (Figure 4) and the number of enclosed arms entries. The
drug also decreased immobility time in the FST (F3,2=4.06, p=0.019, Figure 5) at the
dose of 3 m/kg. The doses of 1 and 10 mg/kg were ineffective. Fig. 3 shows the effects
of HU-474 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg n=6-8 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice tested
in the elevated plus maze. Data expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of time in
the open arms. * indicates significant difference from vehicle. Fig. 4 shows the effects
of HU-474 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg n=6-8 animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice tested
in the elevated plus maze. Data expressed as means ± SEM of the percentage of entries
onto the open arms. Fig. 5 shows the effects of HU-474 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg n=6-8
animals /group) and vehicle (n=7) in mice immobility time (s) showed by mice tested in
the FST. Data expressed as means ± SEM. * indicates significant difference from
vehicle.
        Discussion (comparative results with CBD)
        Intra-dlPAG injection of HU-475 increased exploration of the open arms of the
EPM without changing the number of enclosed arm entries. This indicates an
anxiolytic-like effect (File, 1991) and was similar to that produced by CBD using the
same paradigm, including a bell-shaped dose-response curve. However, the effective
dose of CBD was 30 nmol (doses tested: 15, 30 and 60 nmol), same dose produced an
anxiolytic-like effect in the Vogel punished licking test (Campos & Guimaries, 2008).
In this model, therefore, HU-475 was 10 times more potent that CBD.
        Systemic administration of HU-474 induced anxiolytic-like effects in mice
tested the EPM with a characteristic bell-shaped dose-response curve. The effective
dose was 3 mg/kg. In comparison with CBD, Onaivi et al. (1990) in a study conducted
with a different mice strain (ICR), observed similar anxiolytic effects at the doses of 1
and 10 mg/kg i.p. (with the 10mg/kg of CBD being more effective). HU-474 also
decrease immobility time in mice tested in the forced swimming test, a model sensitive

                                            - 30
to antidepressant drugs. CBD also produced an antidepressant-like effect in Swiss mice
tested in this model at the dose of 30 mg/kg i.p. (doses tested 3, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg).
Therefore, in this model HU-474 was 10 times more potent than CBD.
        Example 4: Pre-pulse inhibition test (HU-474)
        1. Animals
        The experiments were performed using male C57BL/6J mice weighting 25-30g.
The animals were maintained throughout the experimental period under standard
laboratory conditions with free access to water and food will be used.
        2. Compositions
        HU-474 (3 and 10 mg/kg) was dissolved in 2% Tween 80 in sterile saline
(vehicle). MK-801 (a NMDA antagonist, 0.5 mg/kg, Sigma, USA) was dissolved in
saline. Drugs were administered intraperitoneally (ip) at 10 mL/kg volume.
        3. Experimentalprocedure
        The animals (n=9-1 1/group) received i.p. administration of vehicle or HU-474
(3 and 10 mg/kg) followed, 30 minutes later, by saline or MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg),
resulting in the following experimental groups: vehicle + saline, HU 10 + saline, vehicle
+ MK-801, HU 3 + MK-801, HU 10 + MK-801. The animals were submitted to PPI test
20 minutes after the last drug injection.
        4. Pre-pulse inhibition (PPI)
        The PPI was carried out in three consecutive steps. The first consisted of an
acclimation period during which no stimulus was presented. In the second step, called
habituation, only the stimulus that triggers the startle (pulse) was presented. The step
that assessed the inhibition of startle response pulse consisted of 64 random
presentations of the different stimuli: (i) pulse (white noise) 105 dB at 20 ms, (II) pre
pulse (pure tone frequency of 7 kHz) 80, 85 and 90 dB at 10 ms, (III) followed by pre
pulse 100 ms interval between them and (IV) zero (no stimulus). During this session the
stimuli are presented at regular intervals of 30 s, 8 presentations of each stimulus. The
percentage of the PPI was expressed as the percent inhibition of startle amplitude in
response to multiple presentations of the pulse preceded by pre-pulse (PP), depending

                                            -31
on the amplitude of the response only to the pulse (P), which was obtained in the
following formula: % PPI    = 100 - ((PP / P) x 100). Using this formula 0% represents no
difference between the amplitude of startle triggered only by the pulse or pulse preceded
by the pre-pulse and therefore no pre-pulse inhibition. This transformation was
performed in order to reduce the statistical variability attributable to differences
between animals and represents a direct measure of pre-pulse inhibition (Issy et al.,
2009).
        5 StatisticalAnalysis
        The percentage of PPI was analyzed by repeated measures MANOVA with the
treatment as the independent factor and the prepulse intensity (80, 85 and 90 dB) as
repeated measure. Duncan's post hoc test (P<0.05) was used to identify differences
revealed by significant MANOVA.
        Results
        The MANOVA revealed significant main effects of prepulse intensity (F2 ,7 0=
23.53, P<0.05) and treatment (F 4,35=45.42, P<0.05) but no interaction between prepulse
intensity and treatment (F8,70=1.08, P>0.05). MK-801 promoted significant PPI
disruption for all prepulse intensities tested (P<0.05, Duncan post-test). HU-474 (10
mg/kg) attenuated MK-801 PPI disruption in all prepulse intensities tested (P<0.05, Fig.
6). Fig. 6 shows the effects of HU-474 (3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) in mice on the impairment
of PPI induced by MK-801 (MO.5 mg/kg). Results show the percent inhibition of startle
amplitude in response to multiple presentations of the pulse preceded by pre-pulse and
are expressed as means ± SEM. * indicates significant difference from vehicle-vehicle,
# significant difference from vehicle-MK group.
        Discussion (comparison with CBD results)
        A single CBD administration (5 mg/kg, I.p.) attenuated PPI deficits caused by
MK801 (0.3-1 mg/kg, i.p.) in Swiss mice (Long et al., 2006). Observe that in this case
the effective CBD dose (the authors also tested 1 and 15 mg/kg) was lower than that
observed in HU-474 (10 mg/kg).

                                          - 32
        The above experimental procedure is also performed with 30mg/kg dose of HU
474. HU-474 is also tested in dopamine-based models (hyperlocomotion induced by d
amphetamine). CBD effective doses are 30 and 60 mg/kg (Swiss mice). 30mg/kg dose
are able to attenuate the hyper-locomotion induced by MK801 (Moreira and Guimaries,
2005).

                                                    - 33
CLAIMS:
1.      A compound having the general formula (V):
                                       R1
                                                        R3
                                                                  F
                                                 (V)
        wherein
        R, is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C0 alkenyl,
straight or branched C2 -C0 alkynyl, -C(=O)R, -C(=O)OR9 each optionally substituted by at least
one F;
        R 2 is selected from straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkenyl,
straight or branched C2 -C0 alkynyl, each optionally substituted by at least one F;
        R3 and R4 are each independently selected from H, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl,
ORIO, -C(=O)R 1 , -OC(=O)R 2; provided that at least one of R3 and R4 is different than H;
        R, is selected from a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl, a straight or branched C,-C,
alkoxy, a straight or branched C,-C, ether, each being optionally substituted by at least one
substituent selected from -OH, -NH 3, straight or branched C,-C, amine, halogen, phenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl;
        R8 , and R9 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl,
straight or branched C,-Csalkoxy, -NH 3 , straight or branched C,-C, amine;
        RO is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; and
        R,, and R12 are independently selected from H, OH, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl,
straight or branched C,-C, alkoxy, -NH 3 , straight or branched C,-C, amine.
2.      The compound according to claim 1, wherein R, straight or branched C,-C, alkyl; R3 and
R4 are each independently -ORO; RO is selected from H, a straight or branched C,-C, alkyl.

                                                - 34
3.      The compound according to claim 1, wherein R, is straight or branched C,-C, alkyl, and
R 3 and R 4 are OH.
4.      The compound according to claim 1, wherein R, is a straight or branched C5 -C1 2 alkyl.
5.      The compound according to claim 1, wherein at least one of R, and R 2 is substituted with
F.
6.      The compound according to claim 5, wherein R1 is selected from straight or branched C,
C8 alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each
substituted by F.
7.      The compound according to claim 5, wherein R 2 is selected from straight or branched C,
C8 alkyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkenyl, straight or branched C2 -C 0 alkynyl, each
substituted by F.
8.      The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is:
                                                   OH
                                                               F
                                       HO                      C5 H11 .
9.      The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is:
                                                     OC(=O)CH  3
                                                                F
                               H3C(O=)CO                        C5H11.
10.     A composition comprising at least one compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9.

                                                   - 35
11.     A composition according to claim 10, wherein said composition is a pharmaceutical
composition.
12.     A composition comprising at least one compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9,
being an antioxidant composition.
13.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in the treatment of at least one
condition, disease or disorder selected from the group consisting of psychiatric disorders,
inflammation, oxidation associated conditions, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular diseases,
obesity,    diabetes  and    associated   disorders     and    symptoms,    emesis   and   nausea,
ischemic/reperfusion injury associated with myocardial, liver or renal diseases, hypoxia/ischemia
injury, neuronal damage due to neurological diseases or injury, cancer and resistance to cancer
chemotherapy, epilepsy and convulsions, and any condition or symptom associated therefrom.
14.     A compound according to claim 13, wherein said condition, disease, disorder or symptom
associated with inflammation is selected from rheumatoid arthritis,             multiple sclerosis,
inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes and any combinations thereof.
15.     A compound according to claim 13, wherein said disease is a psychiatric disease
condition or disorder or any symptom associated therewith.
16.     A compound according to claim 15, wherein said psychiatric disease condition or
disorder or any symptom associated therewith is selected from anxiety, stress, depression,
schizophrenia, panic, substance abuse withdrawal symptoms, reward-facilitating effect of
addictive substances, memory loss, psychotic-like symptoms associated with the use of
substance abuse.
17.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in reduction of oxidative
stress.
18.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in the treatment of any
disease, condition or disorder caused by or associated with oxidative stress.
19.     A compound according to any claim 18, wherein said disease, condition or disorder
caused or associated with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of cancer,
oxidative neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia, ischemic reperfusion
injury, inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial ischemia or infarction,
cerebrovascular accidents, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage, spinal cord trauma,
Down's     syndrome,   Crohn's   disease,  autoimmune      diseases,  cataract formation, uveitis,

                                                   - 36
emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity, neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation
sickness, and any combinations thereof.
20.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in the treatment of oxidative
associated diseases, disorder or condition of the CNS.
21.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in preventing, arresting, or
treating neurological damage in a subject suffering from at least one disease, disorder or
condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and HIV dementia; autoimmune
neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage, respiratory arrest or cardiac arrest,
anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma or any combinations thereof.
22.     A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for use in the treatment of an
ischemic or neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous.
23.     A compound according to claim 22, wherein the ischemic or neurodegenerative disease is
selected from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's
disease, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia, Down's syndrome, and heart disease or
any combinations thereof.
24.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament.
25.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of at least one condition, disease or disorder selected from the
group consisting of psychiatric disorders, inflammation, oxidation associated conditions,
rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, obesity, diabetes and associated disorders and
symptoms, emesis and nausea, ischemic/reperfusion injury associated with myocardial, liver or
renal diseases, hypoxia/ischemia injury, neuronal damage due to neurological diseases or injury,
cancer and resistance to cancer chemotherapy, epilepsy and convulsions, and any condition or
symptom associated therefrom.
26.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for reduction of oxidative stress.
27.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of any disease, condition or disorder caused or associated with
oxidative stress.

                                                    -37
28.     Use according to claim 27, wherein said disease, condition or disorder caused or
associated with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of cancer, oxidative
neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia, ischemic reperfusion injury,
inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial ischemia or infarction,
cerebrovascular accidents, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage, spinal cord trauma,
Down's     syndrome,    Crohn's   disease,  autoimmune    diseases, cataract   formation, uveitis,
emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity, neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation
sickness, and any combinations thereof.
29.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of oxidative associated disease, disorder or condition of the CNS.
30.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for preventing, arresting, or treating neurological damage in a subject suffering from
at least one disease, disorder or condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease
and HIV dementia; autoimmune neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage,
respiratory arrest or cardiac arrest, anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma and
any combinations thereof.
31.     Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9, for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of an ischemic or neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous.
32.     Use according to claim 31, wherein the ischemic or neurodegenerative disease is selected
from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and
human immunodeficiency virus dementia, Down's syndrome, and heart disease or any
combinations thereof.
33.     A method of treating a condition, disease, disorder or symptom associated with
inflammation in a subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject
an effective amount of at least one compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9.
34.     A method of reduction of oxidative stress in a tissue or an organ of a subject in need
thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of at least one
compound according to any one of claims I to 9.
35.     A method of treating any disease, condition or disorder caused by or associated with
oxidative stress a subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject
an effective amount of at least one compound according to any one of claims 1 to 9.

                                                   - 38
36.     A method according to claim 35, wherein said disease, condition or disorder caused by or
associated with oxidative stress are selected from the group consisting of cancer, oxidative
neurological disorders, free radical associated diseases, ischemia, ischemic reperfusion injury,
inflammatory diseases, systemic lupus erythematosis, myocardial ischemia or infarction,
cerebrovascular accidents, operative ischemia, traumatic hemorrhage, spinal cord trauma,
Down's     syndrome,   Crohn's disease, autoimmune diseases, cataract formation, uveitis,
emphysema, gastric ulcers, oxygen toxicity, neoplasia, undesired cellular apoptosis, radiation
sickness, and any combinations thereof.
37.     A method for the treatment of oxidative associated disease, disorder or condition of the
CNS in a subject, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of
a compound of any one of claims I to 9.
38.     A method for preventing, arresting, or treating neurological damage in a subject suffering
from at least one disease, disorder or condition selected from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's
disease and HIV dementia; autoimmune neurodegeneration, hypoxic or anoxic neuronal damage,
respiratory arrest or cardiac arrest, anoxia caused by drowning and brain surgery or trauma and
any combinations thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound of any one of claims I to 9.
39.     A method of treating an ischemic or neurodegenerative disease in the central nervous
system of a subject, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of
a compound according to claims 1 to 9.
40.     A method according to claim 39, wherein the ischemic or neurodegenerative disease is
selected from the group consisting of: an ischemic infarct, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's
disease, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia, Down's syndrome, and heart disease or
any combinations thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
